ParlaMint-DK_20200416100000	The meeting is open. Today, Thursday 16 April 2020, there are the following reviews: Minister for the Environment (Lea Wermelin): Bill no. L 170 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Environmental Protection and the Law on Sund and Bælt Holding A/S. Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior (Astrid Krag): Bill No. L 173 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Services. Tax Minister (Morten Bødskov): Bill no. L 174 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Recovery of Public Debts, the Pension Tax Act and the Law on the Procedure for the Recovery of Taxes, etc.) and deductions for senior membership quotas in unemployment funds). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20200416100038	Ida Au (RV) has applied for leave from 16 April 2020, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (a). If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416100104	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the first deputy for the Radical Left in the Copenhagen Grand District, Ruben Kidde, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 16 April 2020 on the occasion of Ida Auken's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, with the agreement of the House, I shall consider the recommendation as adopted. It has been adopted. 1.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416100139	The debate is open. I would like to give the floor to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Leif Lahn Jensen. Welcome and go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416100159	Thank you. In the field of employment, we have made a number of changes and simplifications in recent years. We have reviewed the entire employment legislation, addressed, simplified and created a better employment system. We have looked at the issue of sanctions and ensured simplification here, as well as creating a fairer system of sanctions. And last but not least, we have also amended the whole holiday legislation together with the social partners to ensure a more contemporary holiday law. But it is the case that when you do all these things and go in and change several laws, there will be things you do not have, or some consequences you have not foreseen, even if the intentions were there when you made the agreement and even parts of the agreement. I think that can never be avoided, and that is why we must always be ready to take it up and change it when we find out. That is why there are also a lot of technical changes to this bill that we need to get through political work and get into legislation. If I may mention just a few elements of what this draft law contains, it will be the holiday of unemployment benefit recipients during the transitional period and the adult apprenticeship scheme. It will be the case that in the future, in the transitional year 2020, flex jobs on unemployment benefits will have the same number of holiday days from 1 May to 31 August as all others on other benefits, corresponding to about 17 days. Of course, there was not intended to be any difference when the legislation was made, and that is why this change is necessary. As regards the unemployed on the adult apprenticeship scheme, it was important for the Social Democratic Party during the negotiations on a more simplified employment system some years ago to ensure a higher subsidy for companies when taking adult unemployed into adult education. This is precisely what we want to ensure that more of the unemployed who go out there can become skilled and thus also give them a greater opportunity to get involved in the labour market. That is why it was not intended for a smaller group to have a lower subsidy than others, and that is why we also support the retroactive application of this amendment from 1 January. The Social Democratic Party supports the proposal as it runs completely with the intentions of the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416100411	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416100421	Thank you. This bill is quite simple, as it contains fine adjustments to already adopted legislation. The main purpose of the draft law is to follow up the new holiday law with the harmonisation of the rules for persons on unemployment benefit. Holiday rules therefore become more similar across services, and of course we can only support that in the Left. In addition, the draft law contains a number of other fine-tunings which the Social Democrat rapporteur has explained very well and which all contribute to better regulation in the end, and that is always preferable. That is why the Left will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416100506	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416100523	Thank you for that, President. That bill should have been quite simple, and it is also one of them, the first of which is that people on unemployment benefit have their holidays harmonised with the general vacation of contemporaryism as it has been adopted. The Danish People's Party is fully involved in this, as are all the other areas where there is a holiday. Where it starts to pinch a little, when one gets a little further on the subject of active social policy, because there is a point about a repatriation programme, an introduction programme, and there is a point which includes the increase in child benefit that has come through to the groups covered by it. There are a few points, among others. change in the target group for active job search and training requirements, and in this context there will also be consequences changes resulting from the amendment of Article 22 of the Act on Active Social Policy. Before the Danish People's Party says yes or no to the two points, we need to study it a little more closely, and I need someone to review it for me, because I'm not sure it's that simple again. We in the Danish People's Party insist that the people covered by a return programme should not, of course, have an active employment effort in relation to the labour market, nor should they receive active training support. They must be returned as soon as possible. We need support for those points, and it may well be that we in the Danish People's Party will ask for the proposal to be split up. But for the time being, I will not comment on those points, because I need someone with a little more legal knowledge than I do to look it through, because there may be something that we do not like. We are all in favour of this holiday, but the other points need to be studied a little more closely before we finally decide on them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416100737	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416100745	Thank you. These are adjustments to laws already adopted and, as has already been explained, they are taking action, among other things. on the harmonization of the law on holidays to make it as uniform as possible for all beneficiaries of benefits. Radical Left is voting for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416100805	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the SF, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416100810	That is what can happen: we adopt laws that are not a completely clean kick on the ball, and that is why it is sometimes necessary to adjust so that we get everything to play together. That's what this bill expresses, and the SF supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416100824	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416100834	Thank you. See, I do not think it is quite that simple, because I think this bill is an expression of the fact that we are not doing a thorough piece of legislation, and I think it is an expression of the fact that we are making the legal system more and more complicated and incomprehensible and with paragraphs that are contradictory and intersect on all sorts of points and edges. Nevertheless, I can immediately reveal that in the Enhedslisten we intend to vote in favour of the proposal. But I would say that this is so much a confusion that it is very difficult to call it a clear law. First of all, there are all these adjustments we are talking about and the corrections to the consequences of what has already been agreed. And I can say that I think it is a good thing that there is now a chance of having a limit on how long a sanction for social fraud should be and that it should be possible to improve. And we are also satisfied that adults and young people under the age of 18 will have better opportunities to receive transport allowances or to cover actual transport costs. But what do these two things have to do with each other? Nothing. Secondly, it is also good that employers who have adult apprentices are now receiving the same grant of DKK 45. at an hour, when they have a training agreement with an unskilled person who comes from unemployment, regardless of how long the person concerned has been unemployed, and regardless of the allowance received by the adult pupil before that date. But we think, for example, that it is wrong and an expression of zeal that citizens who participate in the process of resource development and job clearance, who should be instrumental in bringing them forward in their progress, should be an opportunity and not a duty. And there should be no sanctions because they do not sign up for such a meeting. After all, we have the basic point of view that work in the job centre should be based more on mutual trust, respect and understanding between citizens and case workers and not on controls and sanctions. Then we have a point which concerns some powers for the Minister. There we would like to ask the Minister to confirm that if you wish to derogate from the requirement of fairness in specific recruitments such as jobs with wage subsidies, this authorisation applies only to the category of persons, namely early retirement pensioners, which is covered by the paragraph, and that this is not a general authorisation to derogate from the requirement of fairness. It is certainly very important for us to have this confirmed. But that's what we're looking for when the minister comes up here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416101111	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416101121	Thank you for that, President. It is true that I have been fortunate enough to be allowed to work on employment policy, as our usual rapporteur has failed. This bill contains a number of proposals for amending the legislative texts already adopted, for example: to ensure harmonisation of holiday rules across benefits. Following the entry into force of the new Main Act on Active Employment, it has proved necessary to make small adjustments to the legislative text. In addition, it is proposed that a number of minor changes be made to the Social Policy Act. As the improvements are of a technical nature and are in line with the agreement reached, it makes very good sense for the Conservative People's Party. That is why the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416101209	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416101215	In this respect, these are some corrections to a legislative proposal that has been adopted before the New Citizens' Party, which is why we do not have much comment on the technical changes. However, we fully share the concern about the elements that the Danish People's Party has also raised here, and we would urge the government to perhaps divide it up if that is what it takes. However, let us go into this in more detail, because it is also something we would absolutely like to have examined. Then there are some elements that are good because they remove a little bureaucracy for business in terms of different subsidy rates and such things. We very, very welcome the fact that these changes are being made. So there are also absolutely positive things about it. But let us look at these things more closely, because it will also be extremely important for New Citizens' support for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416101302	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance. Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416101307	In the Liberal Alliance, we also support the consequences of the extension of the holiday law, so that there is no ambiguity about the rules for vacation when you are on cash benefits. What a lovely country we live in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416101327	Thank you to the rapporteur. Since I do not see any rapporteur present from the Alternative, I can ask the Minister for Employment to come to the floor and welcome him.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416101340	Thank you for the floor, President. I would like to start by thanking you for the treatment that the draft law has received today. As many rapporteurs have said, this is a legislative proposal of a largely technical nature, which contains a number of minor adjustments, mainly from the new Act on Active Employment and from the Act on Active Social Policy. At the same time, the draft law provides for a uniform holiday regime for beneficiaries of unemployment benefits, so that all groups are now entitled to the same number of holiday days during the transitional year of the new holiday law. At the same time, the draft law also corrects the current transitional provision for the adult apprentice scheme in the Act on Active Employment. It extends to the smaller target group of adult apprentices who come from unemployment, also covered by the new rules that have entered into force with the new LAB law. It was always intended that this group should also be included. As regards the questions raised by Mr Van der Klaauw and Mr Van der Klaauw, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the With regard to the questions put by Mrs Jette Gottlieb from the Enhedslisten, I can confirm that the clarification in the draft law is intended to provide that the exception to the reasonable requirement should apply only to early retirement workers in wage subsidies jobs. With section 2 of the bill, no. Section 81 of the Act on Active Employment provides a clarification of the wording of Paragraph 81 of the Act, so that it is clear that rules can be laid down in the form of a notice that the requirement of fairness may be waived for specific target groups. It is clear from the observations made by the draft law that the proposed provision aims to clarify that rules can be laid down to ensure that the requirement of fairness does not apply to early retirement workers in wage subsidies jobs. So, all in all, thank you for the support to get these technical adjustments in place. I would like to thank you for today's debate and look forward to the forthcoming debate in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416101551	Thank you, Minister. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416101611	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Welcome to sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416101627	Although we politicians do not meet with many people physically in these times and, when we are not going to be here in the Assembly Hall, as far as possible we keep ourselves at home as everyone else, we do get very, very many requests. I think I can say that on behalf of all of us. After all, it is a really, really difficult time that we are living in, where many have great problems in coping; it applies to companies, and not least to those people who have either lost or are in a position to lose their jobs. These are people who just want a job so that they can have a better life, give their family a better life and, of course, support themselves, as everyone dreams of. It is also a time when we cannot make the same demands on people in employment as we usually do. This is precisely something that many times creates great debates in this Chamber, where the disagreement is apparent. For it is quite clear that the requirement for a cash aid recipient to be able to obtain 225 hours in a year would be an unreasonable requirement, given that, at the same time, parts of the employment-oriented work in the job centres have been suspended, while it is also much, much harder to find a job in this time. This means that the recipients of cash benefits receive very limited help, while companies spend more time coping, surviving and thinking about the employees they already have, rather than hiring some new ones, which I can certainly understand. These things make it absolutely impossible or, at least, really, really difficult for a person on the edge of the labour market to find a job. It is therefore also fair that this draft law suspends the 225-hour rule during the same period from 9 March to 9 June. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416101815	There are no brief comments to the rapporteur, so thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416101826	Thank you. It's spring, and the sun's shining. Around the country we can hear children's laughs again from schools and daycare institutions, and that is truly pleasing. Thus, the reopening of Denmark has now entered its first phase, and I can hope that it will speed up, so that yours truly can be cut within a short time. I look out in the hall and there may be others who need the same thing. But the reopening also means that we can look forward so little and look a little forward in the future, and unfortunately that is not a funny sight we see. We are looking into a very serious and deep economic crisis. The closure of Denmark means that many people become unemployed and that there are few jobs to look for, and the unemployment figures clearly show this. Before Easter, we therefore ensured, among other things, that the benefit period was suspended and the sickness benefit period extended 3 months so that people do not fall out of a system at a time when the labour market has turned upside down. Now it is the turn of the recipients of cash benefits, and that is why we in the Left believe it is reasonable that we temporarily suspend the 225-hour rule. The 225-hour rule was introduced by the former Left Government in 2015 and means that you must meet a working requirement of 225 hours of ordinary unsupported work if you are unmarried and must continue to be able to receive full education or full cash benefits. The rule also means that the benefit will be reduced if you have received assistance for a total of at least 1 year in the last 3 years and you have not had at least 225 hours of ordinary work within the last 12 calendar months. The Left still considers that, in normal circumstances, the rule contains a reasonable element, but the circumstances are currently not normal. There are very many people who are currently in an unhappy situation and there are very few jobs to apply for. Those people, above all, need help and security, but with a labour market that has stalled during the corona closure, it is difficult for people to reach the right number of hours of work, because there are virtually no job vacancies to look for, and at the same time there are more unemployed because companies are unfortunately firing. The 225-hour rule must therefore be paused so that people with a weak foothold in the labour market have a much needed breathing space. It is with very broad agreement that we are paused by the 225-hour rule, and the suspension will apply retroactively from 9 March on the same day as the benefit recipients were exempted from complying with most of the rules on being available for the labour market. It is only fair and fair for the country's cash aid recipients. The Left therefore supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416102144	Thank you. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416102200	Thank you for that, President. This bill has to be seen in the context of all the other urgent proposals, which have changed the rules on cash benefits and sickness benefits. There should be no doubt that we in the Danish People's Party stand firm on the 225-hour rule, and there is no change in the fact that you have to have 225 hours of work. However, during this period, when the government has suspended the sanctioning rules, when the government has suspended the job centre's efforts towards the 225-hour cash benefits rule, they cannot be helped to find any job, there are not really any companies where they can look for work because it is all closed down, among other things. the areas where they might have been able to get 225 hours, for example. in the experience industry, a summer holiday job and things like that; it was done right from the start of the government; it doesn't make any sense to maintain that they have to find those hours in this 3-month period. That is why we can support extending the period from 12 months to 15 months, when they must have earned the 225 hours in order not to lose the thousand kroner. crowns in cash benefits. We can support that here. But as soon as it's over, you'll be back on the same rules. Then you are still covered by the 225-hour rule and you have to have 225 hours. You have just 3 months where it is suspended, and you have 3 months longer to earn them in this period. We think this is very sensible in that everything has been shut down by the government. It is not because the government wants to shut it down, but it is because of the corona virus, and it is because very many companies have had to keep closed so that there has been nowhere to look for jobs. It is in the same way as for a great many benefit recipients. They do not really have anywhere where they can apply for a job, and therefore the period of unemployment benefit is also extended. So we can support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416102417	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416102425	Thank you. When we dealt with the bill to extend the period of benefit and sickness benefit, I mentioned from the platform that I thought there was another group of citizens who also deserve peace of mind when the labour market has more or less stalled as a result of the corona crisis, namely the citizens covered by the 225-hour rule. On the one hand, it is difficult to find work at these times, and on the other hand, we have suspended much of the employment effort. So I'm in the nature of things really happy today. The draft law extends the 12-month period to meet the employment requirement of 225 hours of ordinary and unaided work. For me, the 225-hour rule has now never really been fair, either before or after the corona crisis, but in particular not during the corona crisis. So, to be brief, I have to say that the Radical Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416102526	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the SF, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416102532	Today is a good day, when we pause the 225-hour rule. And then maybe I was a little surprised when I approached the Castle and saw that there was the flag everywhere. I assume that it is to celebrate that we are finally giving a little breathing space to some of the people who have the least time so I was also glad that we know how to mark it from the Castle. It's people who've gotten stuck because of the corona crisis. The 225-hour rule is a kind of stupid penalty payment that hits hard in those families who already find it difficult to get the ends to reach together. And anyone with eyes in their head can see that it is close to impossible for cash aid recipients to dust up a job at the moment. But I must also say that I am genuinely surprised that it would take so long to get this matter settled; it only costs peanuts in relation to the large aid packages. But I still think there is reason for us to flake from the castle today. Then I would also like to take this opportunity to point out again another stupid penalty, which we should therefore also pause, namely the day of the insured unemployed, that is, the day every four months that the unemployed person has to pay for himself. Of course, the costs continue, but the allowance is available to the unemployed person in the directory. It is totally unreasonable and it makes no sense at all, but there is a majority here in the Folketing for that rule. But in times of crisis, as in the past, it is out of the question: the employment effort has been put on standby in the job centres and in the cashiers, and that is why today, at least, Karen's day makes no sense at all. Yes, I know that the penalty itself, i.e. the calendar day, is not triggered in these months, but as it is now screwed up, it just means that the unemployed person is hit by the fine immediately after the period has expired. The only logical thing is, of course, that three months should be added to the four-month period for carnage days. The situation right now is more like pulling an inflamed tooth like this halfway out; it makes no sense and feels really bad for the patient.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416102759	Thank you to the rapporteur. If the rapporteur is in doubt, then the flagning is not just due to the Danish Parliament, but to Denmark's Queen, Her Majesty Queen Margrethe II, is 80 years old today. May she live long, long yet! There were no brief comments to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416102823	At last we succeeded. And I can understand how sorry I am that there have been some doubts, because while we have made excellent aid packages to ensure the safety of employees and of the self-employed and secure jobs for billions, finding the millions that would cost to suspend the 225-hour rule has been hard. It is good that it has finally fallen into place, because it has caused pain in the stomach to those who are on cash benefits because they do not have a job and cannot support themselves and who, apart from business practices and useful jobs, have not been able to find the 225 hours. Otherwise, they simply lose some of the cash aid that is not very much in advance when the ends are to be met. That is why, of course, we are very pleased that the 225-hour rule will be suspended for three months, and I naturally assume that this will be extended, just as we do with the business packages, if it is that the restrictions or high unemployment will continue after 9 June. However, there is one thing that is quite wrong with the bill: although we had more than 181,000 people on unemployment benefits and cash benefits the day before yesterday, it is believed that those who have not achieved 225 hours before the corona crisis should be able to do so now. They are simply not covered by the draft law, and frankly I think that is quite grotesque; here there is a lack of understanding that those citizens who have already reduced their benefits because of the 225-hour rule, and who, of course, have at least as much difficulty as everyone else right now in finding a job, need a helping hand here. The suspension of the 225-hour rule should also apply to this group, and I will of course table amendments to that and I hope that the parties of the Folketing will support it. And, of course, we support the Bill in the Enhedslisten, we have been pushing for it for a long time, along with other good forces, and I would also like to use this opportunity to say that we should generally remove the 225-hour rule, because we know that people get further away from the labour market when they become poor, and then instead we should address the problem of unemployment; it can often be a lack of education or a lack of handheld effort. We will lack skilled workers in the future, we see it now too; that is what we need, so let us do what works, instead of continuing with an unfair and even ineffective system that makes people afraid instead of making them stronger, let us not talk about the consequences that it also has for their children who grow up in it. That decision should be taken as soon as possible when we are over this urgent legislative period in relation to the Corona crisis; it does not have to wait for a Commission of Service. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416103116	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Per Larsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416103123	Thank you for that, President. The government proposes to extend the 12-month period in the 225-hour rule as a result of the covid-19. It is being proposed that a provision be made that the period from 9 March to 9 June 2020 should be regarded as an extension of the 12-month period for the earning of 225 hours' work. There should be no doubt that we in the Conservative People's Party are ready to make exceptions where it makes sense, in this extraordinary situation, just as we have already done in a number of other areas. Although much has to go fast at the moment, it is important that we also give ourselves time to consider the need for the proposals we are dealing with here in the Folketing. In the Conservative People's Party, we do not believe that there is a need to extend the 12-month period in the 225-hour rule. First of all, it is important to bear in mind that a demand for 225 hours of work in a whole year is a relatively modest requirement. We still think that you can do that despite the covid-19. It is important that we continue to make demands on citizens on cash benefits. We are ready to make exceptions where it makes sense, but in the Conservative People's Party we do not see the need for this bill and cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416103249	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416103257	It should not be mistaken that we in New Citizens believe that this whole employment circus, that is, this system that we have built up, has failed, and we would like to see it completely demolished and built up a much better, more flexible and simpler system. When we look at the 225-hour rule that this is about in this case, we cannot support this proposal as it stands here, and there are some things in it that I would like us to have clarified in committee. I am particularly surprised that people who have been told that they can no longer be covered by this in the period from March to April are now not covered by this. I am surprised, because they have just had almost a whole year to earn this, so why should they suddenly not be included in it? This simply does not make sense, and so I would like to get some figures on how many of them are, which in fact in the first 11 months had not earned it and were not near to earning it, but now just getting a free passport for them to be suspended from this. It simply does not make sense to have made this one small change, which gives one month for those who have already been told to step out of this scheme, because they suddenly get free space to get back into the scheme. We would like to see some figures of how many it is and how many people have been close to earning the 225 hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416103422	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416103429	Thank you. There is a sense of how more employment rapporteurs from the left-wing parties have their hands all over their heads in triumph. I can't remember the last time the triumph was so great. Perhaps it should be when the cash benefits were withdrawn in the autumn for the people who are on cash benefits and have children. Since then, I don't remember being so enthusiastic about any bill. From the Liberal Alliance we are somewhat less enthusiastic. On the contrary, we are inundated with our liberal brothers, not to mention the Left which was left in the autumn, when the Left felt that we should not raise cash aid, that we should not relax the policy of foreigners, but should maintain that it should still be worthwhile to work. This is, of course, also true in the current situation. Like sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen points out that this bill will also mean that those who did not live up to the 225-hour rule before the corona crisis will be freed from it. We think this is wrong and we believe that we should maintain a sensible income policy in Denmark and a strict foreign policy in Denmark, just as our good bourgeois friends tend to think. That's where we're still standing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416103540	That was a brief comment, and it is from Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416103546	I was just interested in the theme that Mr. Alex Vanopslagh took up the position of New Citizens that there should be a difference for those who, up to the crisis here, do not comply with the 225-hour rule, because they should be exempted, that is how I understand the argument. We have had one year to earn the 225 hours, and if we did not, we should not be included in such an extension. Does the same logic apply to companies, where it can be said that there are some companies that were on the edge of the aid packages and that they were not financially connected, because the business model might have been obsolete, should they also not receive business support as a result of the other aid packages?
ParlaMint-DK_20200416103619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416103621	If they have not experienced a fall in turnover as a result of corona, they will not receive a package of help. If they didn't have any turnover in the past, it's hard to get help. That's how the aid packages are screwed up. There must be a significant loss in turnover compared to last year. So if you didn't have any turnover last year, it's hard to share the help packages. Now we're adjusting them, so maybe it's changing. I'm not gonna be able to say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416103641	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416103643	Yes, but it is in extreme situations where there is no turnover at all. Let us now assume that there is a company that has actually been in need for a long time and where it can be said that the business model may in fact be something old-fashioned and the market does not need it anymore. There are also many such companies. For every day there are companies that start and every day there are companies that shut down. Then Mr. Alex Vanopslagh makes the same critical assessment of the companies, so that they can get money from the aid packages if their business models are old-fashioned and not connected and they are otherwise in need, so that they do not need help? If the logic is to be linked to those people who already have the very least in society, namely the recipients of cash benefits, who are now going through a special sorting model where they cannot get, then surely the same logic must apply to the companies, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20200416103723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416103724	I do not want to make myself a judge or expert on which companies are healthy and well-managed. If I was smart in that area, I wouldn't have been in the Folketing, but I would have run a business instead. But I wouldn't be surprised if we did, for example. In a year's time, looking back at the aid packages and saying, "Well, come on, they gilded the accountants and the consultants in this country, and they actually turned out to be bureaucratic and troublesome, and some of them hit awkwardly, because some of them gave money to companies that shouldn't have been helped, and there were other companies that should have been helped, but which, due to bureaucracy and trouble, ended up not having it. That is the disadvantage of making something hasty and complicated, as we have done here in the Folketing. I believe that the benefits will exceed the disadvantages. But if you ask me if there can be any drawbacks in the aid packages we've made, I'd say it shouldn't surprise me.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416103811	There is one more brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416103814	It is more to hear whether the rapporteur can confirm that SF has also voted in favour of the fact that these companies, which according to SF might have been outdated and could not be operated anymore, have been delayed with their A-tax payment and VAT payment and all sorts of other things that are then at risk of not being paid.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416103834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416103836	Yes, I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416103844	So there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur, and since I do not see any rapporteur for the alternative present in the Chamber, the Minister for Employment is hereby given the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416103855	Thank you very much to the rapporteurs for their comments. I am glad that we can deal urgently with the proposal here today. As everyone knows, we are in an extraordinary situation. The Covid-19 situation is of great importance to those recipients of aid who may be at risk of reducing aid if they do not comply with the 225-hour rule. They may find it difficult to find jobs when companies consider firing rather than hiring employees. Once the general commitment to availability and the employment effort have been suspended, this bill proposes that the stricter availability requirement in the form of the 225-hour rule should also be suspended. The aim of the draft law is to ensure that the 12-month period to meet the increased availability requirement for 225 hours of ordinary and unaided work is extended during the period when the general obligation to make available and the employment effort are suspended. The draft law means that the period from 9 March to 9 June 2020 shall be considered an extension period in line with the other reasons which may extend the period for earning 225 hours of work. Therefore, persons covered by the 225-hour rule who have not yet received a reduction in their benefit will not receive a reduction in the aid during this period, and the period for all covered by the 225-hour rule as an extension ground. I think that, as several rapporteurs have also indicated today, is reasonable. In fact, at this time, we must not forget those who have always fought to find a place in the labour market, and we must ensure that they are not further harmed by the fact that the covid-19 has made its entry into our society. I am convinced that, together with the other measures in the area of the Ministry of Employment and Employment, we can help to get the people affected by the 225-hour rule in the best way through the difficult situation we find ourselves in. In addition, I would like to conclude by saying that, right now, discussions are under way with all the parties of the Folketing on the very broad agreement reached at the beginning of the crisis. If the parties of the Folketing agree to extend the period of breaks in the counting of the daily allowance period and extend the period of sickness benefit, we will also agree, at second reading, to propose that this proposal be extended by the period agreed by the Danish Parliament, so that there is parallelism. But we can come back to all that at second reading. I would like to thank you for today's debate and look forward to the forthcoming debate in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416104144	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments to be made, first to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416104149	I would like to ask exactly what the Minister's wording is about parallelism. And it is very good that we have added the months for both the benefit period, the sickness benefit period and now also for the 225-hour rule. Now I have tormented the Minister with this in a previous debate in the Folketing, so let me do it again: well, what can be the argument that we are not doing the same in relation to Karen's day?
ParlaMint-DK_20200416104213	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416104214	I mean, we've had a lot of debates on Karen's Days before, and I think we're actually working on some material in writing for Mr. Karsten Hønge. Basically, I believe that there is a disagreement, or I do not know whether it is a disagreement, but there is a different understanding of what people are actually being affected by this caring day by the government and by the SF. So, from our point of view, what is already inherent is also the discussion we had when we discussed the proposal to pause the seniority of the daily allowance, i.e. that it is already there that basically just pushes it forward; that is actually what we think is reasonable. And there is also that benefit during this period for those citizens. But I understand that Karsten Hønge would like to see a complete suspension of the cart-day, and we in the government do not have any plans to do so at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416104315	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416104317	Yes, I would like to see it suspended, but as I said in my rapporteur's speech, I am quite aware that there is a large majority in the Folketing in order to preserve the business day every four months, so that is the case. But what I'm interested in making sure is that you don't do this exercise where you pull a bad tooth halfway out. Because what I can undoubtedly see now is that you pause it for these months, but they still save away time, you might say. Well, the clock isn't stalled, so once this 3-month period has passed, where it's really paused, they just get hit, the first day after the period expires. What I think we should do is add the 3 months in addition to the 4 months, just like with the benefit period, so that we push it, so that you get extra time to find a job, if that's what's supposed to be the logic behind having this Karen Day. So just putting it on hold so that everyone saves the right to get a stupid ticket, the first day after the period expires, I don't think it makes sense; it has to be added so that these unemployed people can breathe calmly and so that they don't get hit by it. But if the government and the SF agree, then let us make it absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416104411	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416104412	Well, as I said, and I think we have also discussed it on other occasions, we would like to enter into discussions on it. However, what we had understood so far was that the SF's proposal was to suspend altogether, that there should be a Karen's day. If what Karsten Hønge is proposing or clarifying is that the period of time for which it is located should be pushed, I would say that we would like to look at the extent to which it can be done, and then we will consider whether this might be appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416104444	Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416104446	Thank you. When I pressed in, the Minister had not yet told me that it was considered to put this in the second reading and thereby prolong it. I would like to thank the Minister for doing so. This makes the negotiations that we have about the aid packages a little easier. So thank you very much to the Minister for that initiative. We can support that, so thank you very much for that indication about it. When I want to speak so much anyway, it is because it says here in the bill: "Persons who, before 1 April 2020, have been given a decision that the aid will be reduced or cancelled with effect from 1 April 2020, which will be implemented by the monthly aid paid back by the end of April, will have to be informed of the extension and have postponed the expiry date, at the same time as the decision on reduction or withdrawal is revoked. Yes, it was a long lubrication, but it's basically about those who have been told that when we get to 1 April, they're going under this 225-hour rule, and they do, because they haven't earned these things over the period. And that surprises me, because there hasn't been a crisis in that period. So as it says here, if you've been told that from 1 April you can't get help and actually come under this rule, then it's being suspended, and I'm wondering, because it has nothing to do with the period of crisis that dates from sometime in mid-March onwards. This has been reversed, and there people have had ample opportunity... we've actually had an economy that's been in fairly good growth... so I can't believe you've brought it here. I would like the Minister to answer why that part has been included.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416104611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416104613	First of all, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen excuse me. That's what Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen read out, was read out very, very quickly, but I think I understand the question. So, basically, the total period during which it is suspended is from 9 March, and that is why it is good and well a month when it has not been possible to earn hours, and that is why we have set the time limit where it is. We really think that is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416104644	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416104646	Then I would like, when we deal with it, to have a note of the months from which it applies. Because when you are told in March that you are leaving from April, I assume that it is because it is calculated from the time until 1 March that it will be treated during March and then you are told that you cannot get it from 1 April. Otherwise, we cannot say that people will leave from 1 April, that is, if people have had an opportunity to earn it in March. This month can be quite crucial, so could we not clarify whether there is any kind of procedure, where this period runs until 1 March and then you are told during the course of the proceedings in March that you cannot get it from 1 April? For then it is not true that it has had an impact on it, but if it is the case that the month of March counts, and it is only then, until finally, you are told, then the Minister has a point.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416104730	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416104732	We would very much like to try to clarify this in writing, and if it should give rise to discussions at second reading, we will, of course, also take them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416104740	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200416104756	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 21 April 2020 at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
