ParlaMint-DK_20201112101458	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112101504	The items listed as No. 4 and 6 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this meeting with the agreement of the Things. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112101513	At this meeting we will then have prizes in the new form of voting and, in the interests of safety, I have chosen to hold a test vote. Before we start the vote, each one has to check whether his name is in front of the display, and it is the case that you also have to log in, even if you happen to have to sit in your original seat. I assume that is the case. Now you can decide for yourself what you are voting for or against or abstaining from voting for it is not so often that you can do it so we are now trying to make a test vote, and it is each individual who decides what you are voting for or against. You're welcome to vote. The vote will end. I do not really know what has been adopted or rejected, but it is up to each individual.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112101619	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. There is one proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 5 by Carl Valentin (SF), Anders Kronborg (S), Zenia Stampe (RV), Peder Hvelplund (EL) and Torsten Gejl (ALT), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 54 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), against 42 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. This brings us to the motion for a resolution. V 5 adopted and thus the question has been closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112101713	The debate is closed, but I understand that Mr. Erling Bonnesen would like to speak. I am just told that, unfortunately, we cannot have the floor because the debate is closed. I'm sorry. I have been told that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it is unfortunately not possible to speak on this matter because the debate is closed. I'm sorry. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 7 by Anders Kronborg (S), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 74 (S, V, DF, RV, KF and NB), against 19 (SF, EL, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 7 is adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 6 by Erling Bonnesen (V), Lise Bech (DF), Per Larsen (KF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB) and Henrik Dahl (LA) and proposals for adoption no. V 8 by Carl Valentin (SF) and Jette Gottlieb (EL) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112101840	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 9 by Jens Joel (S), Michael Aastrup Jensen (V), Jens Rohde (RV), Anne Valentina Berthelsen (SF), Søren Søndergaard (EL) and Katarina Ammitzbøll (KF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 84 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA (by mistake), ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against 3 (NB), abstained 8 (DF). This brings us to the motion for a resolution. V 10 by Morten Messerschmidt (DF) and Peter Seier Christensen (NB) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112101943	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112102008	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 96 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. Thus the bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister. I shall now suspend the sitting for 15 minutes and ask Members to leave the Chamber in good order and at a distance so that we can get it spritted off.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112103505	The debate is open. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112103525	Thank you. We have been standing in this Chamber on several occasions with these proposals. It is a proposal to help the unemployed and the sick at a time when it is really difficult to get a job and stick to the labour market; proposals that will create more security for them in an already very, very difficult time. Through the corona crisis, we have made broad agreements to extend the benefit period and the sickness benefit period and to suspend the 225-hour rule. And these things were also included in the broad agreement that was drawn up on 27 October this year, which means that today we are dealing with these proposals. I do not need to spend so much time on the speech this time, but just mention what the proposal means. The right to benefit shall be extended by two months for unemployed persons who lose their entitlement to benefit from 1 November of this year until 1 November 2021. The right to sickness benefit shall be extended by 3 months until 31 January 2021. So none of those who lose the court during that period will turn to job clearance. Finally, the 225-hour rule is suspended for cash benefits recipients from 1 November of this year until 31 January 2021. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112103643	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why we shall move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112103653	Thank you. During the autumn, the covid-19 infection has flared up again, and Denmark is in the middle of another wave. And, unfortunately, because of the development of the coronasmit, we must also expect more challenges in the labour market. In addition, the new restrictions will probably mean that we are faced with a period of less positive rates in unemployment figures than those we saw over the summer. A broad majority of Parliament's parties have therefore agreed on an agreement to extend the compensation arrangements in order to meet these consequences. For the Left, it is important to emphasise that we are in an extraordinary situation in which the normal conditions of the labour market have been put out of business. And that is why we now have a legislative proposal to give an extra hand to citizens on the edge of the labour market. We also owe it to the many thousands who have lost their jobs to do all we can to restore the economy and create lasting growth and jobs. And there we would like the government to do even more, for example. that we had agreed to pay the last few weeks of frozen holiday money, which could be a good tool for getting growth going again. However, we are behind the agreement that we have reached, and that is why the Left also supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112103824	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112103840	Thank you for that, President. This bill comes from some negotiations that we have been to, but which the Danish People's Party left, because we did not entirely agree with everything that was in the agreement that was made then. This has nothing to do with the extension of the benefit entitlement. We think it is very good to extend the right to benefit so that no one goes out in the period from 1 November 2020 to 1 November 2021. That's one year's extension. That is a long time, of course, but it may be an expression of the government's belief that the corona crisis is going on for so long. I hope that is not what this is all about. I hope we're in normal conditions soon enough. Then sickness benefit is extended by 3 months, so no sickness benefit recipients are transferred to job clearance until 31 January 2021. That's good enough, too. Perhaps one might have asked whether it should have been a little longer when extending the benefit entitlement for a longer period, up to a whole year. But let's just leave it alone. Then there is the suspension of the 225-hour rule for cash benefits recipients. We are not so enthusiastic about this in the Danish People's Party, and we have seen from the latest figures and also from DA that more and more people are working alongside the 225-hour rule. Apart from North Jutland, where the Prime Minister has shamefully shut down seven municipalities, where we have major problems, because it is built on request and there is no one who can really understand it and understand what it really is, the government has wanted with the decommissioning of North Jutland it is one of the most foolish that has been made, and rules that cannot be understood so the labour market works reasonably far along the way. People can go to work. This also applies to those who are on cash benefits. They can also look for work so that they can meet the requirements of 225 hours. Therefore, the Danish People's Party cannot support that part of the proposal and also thinks that it should perhaps have looked a little more at how it works and what efforts are being made to help them back or into the labour market. However, as I have said, we agree with the first two points. But the last thing about the 225-hour rule, we can't. However, the Danish People's Party will wait to make a final decision on what we do with the bill until it is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112104153	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mrs Samira Nawa, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112104200	Thank you, President. This is not the first time, as has been mentioned by previous rapporteurs, that we are dealing with a legislative proposal extending the right to benefits, extending the right to sickness benefits and suspending the 225-hour rule. Now we are discussing such a bill again, and we are doing so because corona has flared up and it is to be expected that it will also get into the labour market and hit some of the most vulnerable citizens hardest. The draft law stems from the broad agreement reached in October, and the Radical Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112104240	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112104247	The period of benefit and the period of sickness benefit are already very short and it is currently difficult to meet the 225-hour requirement for cash benefits recipients. And in a situation where the labour market has more or less been put on ice because of the coronasmit, it is essential to ease the pressure on both the unemployed and the cash benefits recipients. That is why the SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112104317	Thank you for that and that means that we are on to Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112104323	Thank you. After all, the draft law extends some schemes that we have been through before, but we are aware that, in relation to the period of sickness benefit, there has been a change in the model and it has supposedly happened so that it is easier for the municipalities to administer, because they only have to assess the sickness benefit case once and only make one decision. However, what we are unclear about and on which we are going to ask questions is whether this is a deterioration for sick people. Because it is now happening that it is not possible to see the legal principle which states that a matter must be brought to light. This cannot be achieved in the form in which it has now been extended. We will be aware of this, and we will also question whether it is true that this is an administrative relief for the municipalities. So we'll just hear about that before we finally clarify how we deal with it. I would like to say that the other two things, the extension of the benefit and the suspension of the 225-hour rule, we are quite prepared to join in and, of course, the principle of extending sickness benefit; that is not the problem. It is whether this is an administrative matter which is not entirely wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112104439	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That's why we can move on to Mr. Marcus Knuth, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112104445	Thank you, sir. President. Behind us lies a spring and a summer when unemployment in Denmark has increased. We all know the reason. The arrival of the Corona meant the departure from the labour market for everything, too many Danes. The figures are gloomy and, if any, we have made an effort to keep our hands on Danish business, because without business there are no jobs. In front of us, we are still standing away with an unemployment problem, which must be settled with the right tools and incentives. Public support is not a sustainable way forward, but when Danish business gets rid of the carpet and takes the employees down, we naturally support both the industry and the employees. That is why the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112104533	Thank you. No brief remarks, so we move on to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112104538	Thank you. I'm sorry if the voice sounds a little rusty, but we're negotiating in the middle of the night, and it was 4 o'clock before we could go to bed last night. After all, we are debating compensation for mink growers and getting them to work because the government and the Prime Minister have issued an illegal order that all mink should be slaughtered. It's relevant when we talk about such a bill here. For one is Covid-19, another is if you, as the Prime Minister, are illegally actively sending people out into unemployment, because then you will need more of these bills. And at some point the Folketing must also begin to say: yes, there is covid-19, but what can the Folketing do to create more growth in society, to create more jobs? After all, there are two quite obvious things: 1) the Prime Minister must stop issuing illegal orders which involve slaughtering and destroying an entire profession on a false basis; 2) the Folketing must begin to adopt tax incentives that boost growth engines. If you do not do so, you just place more people on transfer incomes, which are to be paid by other people. That is why we have a whole series of questions for dealing with this here to ensure that Parliament and the government also lift the responsibility of creating growth and jobs out there and not just by illegal orders sending people out into unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112104728	Thank you to the rapporteur. No brief remarks, and that is why it is now Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112104738	Thank you for the floor. I will be brief: we are not part of the political agreement behind L 76 and we do not support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112104748	Thank you to the rapporteur. No brief comments, and then it is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112104807	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for their comments. Over the past many months, we have taken extraordinary steps to ensure that the whole of Denmark is able to get through this global crisis in the best possible way. Now we are in the middle of the second wave of the infection, and corona continues to have a great influence on every Dane's everyday life. There are, among other things: continued and extended a number of restrictions that affect us all, and although Denmark is one of the very, very few countries that are currently relatively modestly affected by the second wave, we are nevertheless affected. Therefore, the government and a broad majority of Parliament's parties have concluded an agreement to extend the aid packages on 27 October. These are three of the initiatives of the agreement that we are discussing here today, because although it is extremely important to hold hands under Danish industry with a number of compensation schemes, we must not forget those who are currently outside the labour market; those who have always fought to find a place in the labour market; and those who are sick. It is difficult to find work right now, and although we see a fall in unemployment, it will also be difficult for the next time. For this reason, I am pleased that we have agreed that all unemployed persons who use up their benefit rights during the period from 1 November of this year to 1 November 2021 will be granted an extension of their benefit rights for two months. The situation is also of great importance for those recipients of cash benefits who may be at risk of having their benefits reduced if they do not comply with the 225-hour rule. The proposal suspends the rule from 1 November of this year until 31 January of next year. This means that persons in the cash benefits system who are covered by the 225-hour rule receive up to 3 months extra to meet the employment requirement. In addition, any employment during the suspension period will count towards the fulfilment of the rule. In addition, the period of sickness benefit is extended by three months for persons who cannot receive an extension of their entitlement to sickness benefit. This means that no beneficiary of sickness benefit will be transferred to the job clearance process until 31 January 2021. I have no doubt that these initiatives will provide greater security for benefit recipients, cash benefit recipients and sickness benefit recipients over the next few months. Together with the expansion of the other aid packages and, above all, the strengthened upgrading efforts, they will help to mitigate the major consequences of corona, including in the field of employment. Once again, a great deal of thanks to the broad majority of parties in the Folketing who are behind the agreement to extend the aid packages. I look forward to the further examination of the proposal next week. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112105058	First of all, a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112105102	First of all, thank you for helping to ensure that there will be security for those affected by illness and unemployment. It was one of those things. The Enhedslisten's proposal that we should extend the period in relation to sickness benefit, and I am pleased that the Minister agrees with that intention. I would like to ask whether the Minister will be involved in trying to look at the way it has been screwed up here, because now, in fact, in the draft law, it has ended up breaking one of the key principles of legal certainty that a case needs to be clarified at the moment in order to be able to take a decision on stopping sickness benefit. That is part of the decision of principle, and it is a problem that we have come to do so in such a way that the citizen is disadvantaged. So I would like to ask whether the Minister will take part in looking at that part and resolving that problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112105152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112105154	I think that I will begin by explaining how this prolongation of sickness benefit differs from the previous extensions that we have decided. In other words, the purpose of the extension, as Mrs Victoria Velasquez also mentioned, is to ensure that no beneficiary of sickness benefit is to be transferred to work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related And in order to facilitate the administration in the municipalities, we are implementing this extension by introducing an extension for the citizens where the municipality considers that they should be in the process of job clearance. This means that the municipalities first decide whether the case can be extended according to the general rules, and if it cannot and therefore the citizen must be transferred to the job clearance process, the citizen will be temporarily extended for three months and then automatically transferred to the job clearance process. In the previous temporary extensions, the municipalities were not required to decide first whether the general rules could be applied and therefore the municipalities experienced a large amount of litigation when the extensions expired because many cases had to be dealt with simultaneously. And that is one of the things we have assessed was neither beneficial to the citizen nor to the caseworker.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112105303	Mrs Victoria Velasquez
ParlaMint-DK_20201112105305	Quite frankly, I have to say that consideration for the sick citizen must first and foremost be what we care about. Yes, then we must resolve it if there is an accumulation of matters in the job centres, but it cannot be the consideration of anything bureaucratic that has to do with breaking a legal principle against sick people. So I would like to hear the Minister again whether we should take another look at this, because I do not think these two things are equal. It is important that resources are included in the job centre, but it is also important that sick people are placed in a dignified situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112105337	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112105338	In other words, there is nothing that we are opposed to discussing anything with the Enhedslisten or the rest of the Danish Parliament during the second reading. But I would just like to stress once again that the arrangement of this is, in fact, an attempt to take account of the individual citizen too. It may be citizens who have a case going on and who may be at risk of extending the duration of the proceedings. But, of course, we are happy to discuss it further.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112105406	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112105408	Thank you. I should like to ask whether the Minister can confirm that, because of the Prime Minister's illegal order, more people are potentially becoming unemployed, especially in North Jutland.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112105418	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112105419	At any rate, I note that because of the contagious situation and because of the range of restrictions that have been imposed, not least, of course, the very serious one and the State's Serum Institute assessed the significant risk that mutations in mink and so on. can help to exacerbate the corona crisis, it will of course be felt in North Jutland, just as it will be felt everywhere else. So, of course, there will be an impact on employment of the situation in North Jutland, just as there will continue to be this in the second wave in the rest of the country. And that is why we are taking a number of these initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112105508	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112105509	Good. I see that as recognizing that it will have an impact on employment, that is to say it will fall. Does the Minister also recognize that the Prime Minister had no legal basis when the Minister gave this order last week?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112105521	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112105522	Well, it's not up to me to assess. I know a statement is being made. I know that there was a consultation yesterday, in which I also think in the parts of what I saw, I saw Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen's figure. What I want to say, on the other hand, is that what has been important to this government all the way through since March has been making sure that the effects of this global pandemic that hit Denmark are taken care of. And I have an appeal to all the bourgeois parties for two things: To take the health crisis seriously; 2: Of course, to the extent possible there must be political discussion • not to try to undermine the health authorities in the political discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112105605	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112105608	Thank you. A great deal has been said about North Jutland in connection with the seven municipalities that have been shut down in North Jutland, and also about minkavl de facto being abolished in North Jutland and probably also throughout Denmark. After all, there are mink breeding and follow-up industries, and what it is, somewhere between 2,500 and 3,000 who are unemployed in North Jutland, and the restrictions that have been imposed on North Jutland, it doesn't make it better for people to get out looking for work. Because it has been asked not to cross borders between municipalities. At the same time, employers have been called upon to repatriate employees, but these are only calls and people are in a situation where they do not know whether to cross borders or not, and the Minister has already said that this is only an invitation, and that is up to the companies themselves. So the question is: when does the government intend to remove the restrictions on crossing local boundaries so that workers can get to work and create new jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112105716	Thank you. We are discussing a specific legislative proposal here today, and I am happy to provide a broad framework for debate, but I think that we are relatively far away from the legislative proposal, as I have just assessed. But it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112105733	It is an attempt to answer: I think it is really, really important, and I really think that there is also broad scope in the Folketing and also far into the bourgeois parties, and above all has been a recognition that the best conditions we have in Denmark to protect our labour market and protect our economy are also in the process of managing the health crisis and managing the infection. The second important realization is that Denmark, when we look around Europe, where the second wave is now roaring, is on two counts a special case. One is that it seems that, with the restrictions we implemented at the end of October, we are breaking the curve, so that the infection does not increase in Denmark as opposed to the vast majority of Europe. The second is that we do not actually have very far-reaching restrictions compared with the rest of Europe, and I have both a great deal of faith in the Danes' social minds and the companies' ability to adapt and act within the very wide framework that is, that we actually handle this second wave of infection by keeping as open as possible and at the same time shielding the economy as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112105846	Thank you, Minister. Then it's Bent Bøgsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112105848	Excuse me, sir. President, but I do not think my question went away from it, because some of the 2,500 people who are unemployed in North Jutland can benefit from this extension of the benefit period, and some of them are made redundant from companies because they cannot get to work that can benefit from this proposal. So I do not think my question went away from this question, and I hope that I will now have to put a question to the Minister. Because what lies in it is that, if I remember correctly, the Minister has also said that special rules are being laid down for those who are being sent back, those who are being unemployed, in North Jutland, that is, an extra effort to get them lifted. Could the Minister perhaps make a few comments on this in connection with this? Because I think it's all connected to these extensions in relation to the daily allowance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112105939	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112105940	Sir. Bent Bøgsted is quite right that it is all connected, and I know that, like Mr Bøgsted, it is all connected. Lars Boje Mathiesen also reported, until kl. 4.00 last night was negotiated on aid packages, including not only compensation for mink growers, but also a discussion on downstream industries and what else can be done as part of the forthcoming financial negotiations, and also discussions on a need for what we have all started to call stimuli, that is, what we call expansive financial policy in a classical sense. Significant and further steps will also be taken to stimulate the economy in order to help as many people as possible get back to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112110017	Thank you. Normally, we are not discussing this in the Parliamentary Chamber, but I accept Mr. Bent Bøgsted's line, and there must be room to be able to. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112110028	It is just a comment, so the Minister should not feel obliged to say anything. But I would just like, as a civil politician, very strongly to have me refrained from being reprimanded by a minister from Parliament's platform, because it is pointed out that the government must remain within the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112110046	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112110047	I think, sir. Henrik Dahl heard my comment wrong if he felt reproved. That was not the intention. On the contrary, I believe that I am one of those who has actively followed Mr. Henrik Dahls's writings during this whole corona crisis, especially the last long facebook post he wrote. I think that one of the very right points made by the rapporteur in the facebook statement about the countries where the Corona crisis has been dealt with badly, paragraph 1, was as I recall, and otherwise Mr. Henrik Dahl rebuked me that the health authorities have been undermined and paragraph 2 that the debate on crisis management has been politicised. He should not read that as a current comment on the situation around mink, but a broader comment which I thought was incredibly gifted from Mr. Henrik Dahl's side.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112110141	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112110143	I'm glad my facebook updates hit a wide readership and are being taken in. I just have to repeat that I thought it was suspicious to raise a debate that we should stick to the law. Of course, we all do, and we do not have to scold my colleague in the Folketing to bring that up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112110208	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112110209	Once again, I would like to say that I have not suspected anyone of pointing out that the law must be observed and that the decisions taken must be authorised. For of course there must be, and I think the Minister for Food has both regretted what he has answered for himself in consultation and there is a statement along the way. What I, on the other hand, just say is important to keep in mind in this context: I have not been closely involved in the mink case, because basically it doesn't change either the Statens Serum Institut's warning or, for that matter, the government's proposal that you want a legal home to be able to actually knock down these minks.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112110246	Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112110249	Thank you. This bill is precisely about the effects of corona, and I have to say that I agree with my fellow citizens who point out that North Jutland is very much an example of how wrong things have gone. Now we can read today about experts who say that there was no reason to kill mink, that there was no reason to close North Jutland. Does the Minister still believe that the illegal order given by the Prime Minister last week was the right thing to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112110316	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112110317	Let me put it perfectly clearly and I would like to hear Mr. Marcus Knuth in his reply expresses it if he thinks the opposite that both as a member of parliament, as a minister and not least as a citizen of Denmark, I have full confidence in our health authorities and the analyses, and not least the warnings they send out, and when they say that there is a very high risk here, it is clear that the government is acting on that risk assessment. It is clear, of course, that there will always be all sorts of discussion, but it is the risk assessment that is being carried out. Mr. Marcus Knuth, if he was minister, have failed to respond to that risk assessment?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112110358	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112110359	We can at least see that the whole process leading up to the resolution did not involve us other parties. It might have been wise, and it did not involve the researchers who are now saying that it was not the right decision, but it was a decision that was taken in an extremely narrow and arbitrary space, and I think that is highly critical. But if I may ask the Minister now, where there are experts who go out again and again and say that the basis on which the Prime Minister made the decision was not explained well enough: when can we expect to start opening North Jutland?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112110431	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112110432	I have not read the opinions of the experts, as Mr. Marcus Knuth is referring to. It is also a matter of another kind, but basically, I think it is important to bear in mind once again that an essential condition for us to be able to protect our labour market and our economy as far as possible is that we have a perfectly clear understanding of the state of infection, and that is actually what we have been doing in Denmark right, really skilful throughout the spring and in the beginning of the autumn of the second wave so far. That is why Denmark is not hit harder than all other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112110506	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112110519	The debate is open. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112110535	It is so important for our societies at these times that we are focusing on two things in particular: firstly, to ensure that the corona virus spreads as little as possible, and secondly, to continue to ensure a high level of activity in society. This is particularly true of our jobs, where we need to ensure that we do not infect each other on the job and that companies can still earn money and preserve the jobs that exist or they want to develop even more. We have seen how the infection can get hold of if it first hits a company, as we have seen in some industries, for example. abattoirs and construction. And we must avoid this, so that we prevent them from shutting down and sending people home and eventually even losing customers. Therefore, there is an increasing need for employers to have employees tested and to react on the basis of the results. The proposal is to allow employers to require that employees be tested for covid-19 and to obtain information on the results. This will apply to both private and public employers. In particular, the FH has pointed out some things which have also been included in the proposal and which are very important for us Socialists. I will mention them briefly. There must be an objective justification, and this justification must, of course, be written. And this justification will also be given to the Co-operation Committee, the Working Environment Representatives and the trust-elected, so that they can also be involved in it. As far as possible, this must be done within working hours, and if this is not possible, the employee must be compensated for it. Finally, you can refuse to be tested by your colleagues or employer and have the test taken elsewhere. By these additions, we in the Social Democratic Party believe that this is a necessary step to ensure precisely that the infection does not spread out in companies to the detriment of them and, above all, of society. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112110724	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Hans Andersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112110732	In a few weeks' time, virtually all our main export markets have been hit by a violent development of infection and new restrictions. It also has obvious consequences for an export nation like Denmark, which is able to sell our ideas and products to the rest of the world. The current second wave has hit exports before it really got up again, and on this basis Danish Industry estimates that this year there is a 13 per cent drop in Danish exports. This is a very sad development. In addition to new restrictions and closures, Danish export companies also meet requirements for documentation that they test all their employees when they want to sell goods on foreign markets. Today's draft law establishes a tool to prevent the risk of infection and reduce it and contain it, and, in addition to this, establishes a legal basis to ensure that companies that have employees are tested for covid-19 if, for example, companies are tested for covid-19. are faced with the requirement of their customers to ensure evidence that the employees are not infected with covid-19. So this bill now allows employers to require an employee to be tested in situations where no voluntary agreement has already been concluded. The last thing, that is to say, the voluntary agreements, is at least in our view the way in which they work at a long time, the vast majority of jobs already exist today. However, the situations in which the employer then wishes to test all employees must be justified by the legal basis of this bill in order to limit the spread of infection by covid-19, including in terms of health and safety or in terms of essential operational considerations in the individual company. This is an important legislative proposal, and we think that, in the context of the committee procedure, which needs to be speeded up, we should have clarified the factual explanatory statement, and we should also have discussed the date for repealing this law. In the bill as it stands right now, the law will be repealed on 31 December 2021. We can discuss the date, we think, in the forthcoming committee work, which will take place from now until next week. We can discuss both matters about the repeal of the law and the date of it, but also to clarify it with what justification it is that must lie in order for an employer to be able to require employees to be tested. This is important both in relation to companies and it is important in relation to employees' rights in the individual company. In those words, we look forward to a rapid committee procedure and a good discussion, and then we will take a position on the legislative proposal when it comes to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112111126	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112111137	Thank you for that, President. This bill has come a little in the light of the spread of infection from foreign workers, for example. in slaughterhouses, but also on construction sites where we can see that there are employees who have come from EU countries who have had infection with them and who have also infected through the way they live in Denmark. It's been a hotspot in some places. It has meant a lot to the Danish companies that they have then had to shut down something and that they then lack labour. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party think it is good that you can now test the employees who come to Denmark, that they must have a test that is not more than 72 hours old and that it must be negative for them to enter Denmark, otherwise they can spread infection new places. We think this is positive and we have no problem with the fact that there is a sunset clause in this proposal, because it is a question of when we will be over the corona crisis. Hopefully it will not run all next year, but if it does, it will also be necessary for us to test the employees we get in. Nor is it the case that these tests would be detrimental to employees. But it means a lot that companies can get information about that test. It's not like you can just come in and say, "I've been tested." The employer must be informed that the test has been carried out. It means a great deal that they are sure that their employees are not sick when they come to Denmark. That is right and proper, we think in the Danish People's Party. That is why we do not have any objections to this proposal. As I see it, everyone who comes from a high-risk country must be tested, otherwise they should not be able to enter Denmark. There are certain restrictions on the seven municipalities in North Jutland, but I have a hope that within a week the Prime Minister will remove the travel restrictions we have in North Jutland, given that we now have a very low pressure of infection in North Jutland. We have in North Jutland the lowest in Denmark, and the cluster-5 no longer exists, and then you have to be able to remove the travel restrictions, so it will be possible to get to North Jutland. But the Danish People's Party supports this proposal. The police have the possibility of rejecting them at the border, but it also requires, of course, that there is some control when they come to Denmark, so that they are not just free to enter. In fact, the Minister must explain from the platform what checks are on entry to Denmark for foreign workers. In this connection, can they freely cross the border in South Jutland, or are they stopped to show that they have a negative covid-19 test? The Minister can tell us a little about that here from the platform. But otherwise the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112111518	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. There are no brief comments. We move on to Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112111524	Thank you, President. No one can be in any doubt that we have been in a serious health crisis for a long time. The Corona has waved back and forth, and right now we're in the middle of another wave. It must be taken seriously, and we in the Radical Left do so, and that is why we have also approved that this particular legislative proposal can be dealt with urgently. As far as content is concerned, this draft law makes provision for an employer to require his employees to be tested for covid-19 and for the employer to be informed of the outcome. And to put it bluntly, it is very far-reaching that employers should have access to employee health information, which is what it is all about. That is why it is crucial for the Radical Left that there should be an objective justification before employers can require employees and employees to be tested. And it is also stated in the draft law that it has to be objectively justified, but we would very much like to know what that means in more concrete terms. In addition, the draft law is due to expire on 31 December 2021, and it is at the end of next year, hopefully, that we are not in a situation like the one we are facing today. In the Radical Left, we want a debate on the removal of the sunset clause. We propose that this could be at the end of March, when the current epidemic law will expire. The Radical Left takes a position on the proposal for a directive at second reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112111711	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That's why it's now, sir. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112111718	Dramatic times require dramatic answers, even when it comes to really very personal conditions such as testing for a disease. I think that would also be a good idea, precisely because it is a dramatic law that we should move the expiry date earlier and earlier than the end of next year. In fact, it can be almost difficult to understand a situation where, just a short time ago, we had to imagine that this was a legislative proposal we had to deal with. But it is necessary to track down and contain corona, and here both companies and employees must play along. Therefore, demands for tests may be necessary, and it is good that we experience both the employers' organisations and the trade union movement taking on the task and helping to make a law like this. Afterwards, the task has to be carried out on the individual companies through cooperation between the employer and the employees, and these may be the places where there is a shop steward, a health and safety representative. And if there isn't at the company, you can involve the local union. But this is also clearly a challenge with some employers who behave like kings in their own kingdoms, where they apparently now think to know best, both about health policy and about what might be vital social work tasks. After all, I now see contractors who appear to be both neurologists and health experts, and who now, I have the impression, are most concerned with the company's short-term profits. I would therefore like to hear the Minister explain the legal position of employees who have either been exposed to infection or are experiencing symptoms and are waiting for either a test or an answer... can the employer instruct employees to appear at work during the period? I would also very much like to hear from the Minister what initiatives will be taken to ensure employees who have either been exposed to infection or experience symptoms and are waiting for tests or answers so that they are not required to appear at work during the period. Perhaps the Minister can already answer that question here today, otherwise the SF will draw them into the committee procedure. But as a starting point, the SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112111951	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then it is Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112111959	I shall speak on behalf of our rapporteur on this matter, Mr President. Christian Juhl, and I will make his views known. There is good reason to focus on the spread of infection in the workplace. It's been a neglected area for months. See e.g. in slaughterhouses and mink farms. The Labour Inspectorate was discharged when the corona broke out in the spring. It was a mistake. The Minister has rejected proposals from both FH and Enhedslisten to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate's work at the workplace. It was a mistake. Fortunately, however, in recent weeks special attention has been paid to the risk of infection from the corona when the Factory Inspectorate is visiting. That's good. Then you can ask whether a law is necessary. Is there a need for a law as it goes in and regulates in areas where the social partners usually make the necessary agreements themselves? Experience from spring and summer also shows that this situation in many companies has actually been resolved within the framework of agreements and trade agreements. But not all companies have shop stewards or works councils or fora where it is best done. The bill deviates from an important principle in the labour market that illness is a relationship between the employee and his doctor. Employers do not have the right to know what is wrong with us, but that we are ill. On the other hand, the concern to limit coronasmit in the workplace is very, very important. That is why we must work to ensure the rights that already exist, so that the right and duty are better balanced and so that employees have a greater influence on when and how tests are carried out and the results are used than the draft law immediately indicates. The Enhedslisten therefore calls for the following points to be integrated into the bill: 1) This special law must not weaken the employer's general duty to ensure that workplaces are fully safe and health-friendly. This should be mentioned in the draft law. 2) The primary purpose of the law must be to protect employees from covid-19, and that is important in terms of purpose formulation, because there could be other considerations as well. 3) It must be a right not only for the employer but also for employees to get a test if someone in the jacket or department or on the construction site etc. have been in contact with coronas infected or infected. 4. Employers who move or work in undertakings must also be tested. 5) There must be pay during sickness or repatriation. 6) A positive test must not in itself be grounds for dismissal or in any other way impair wage and employment relationships. 7) Trust representatives and works councils need not only to be informed and this is also important to involve them in the decision on tests and the consequences of infection. This is a basic practice in the workplace and should not be deviated from on this issue. In addition, the trade union must be informed in small workplaces where there is no representative of trust or works council. 8) We want a shorter sunset clause, for example. It can follow the interim epidemic law also proposed by the Radicals. We think that would be useful. 9) Access to professional treatment shall be granted if employees are dismissed as a result of this law or if doubts arise in any way. We still feel that there are some ambiguities in the draft law which could lead to unnecessary disputes between employers and employees. The ambiguities should be clarified before, and they could have been avoided if a more normal consultation round had been carried out among interested parties. After all, the proposal suffers from the absence of a proper hearing of the parties. We have sent the Minister on Tuesday and this morning from the Enhedslisten on the grounds that we were able to identify them immediately. We hope that the Minister will review the bill before the second reading if he does not want us to get into any mischief. Then we will say that prevention remains important. The Enhedslisten supports, so to speak, the intention of this bill, but believes that in the coming days there must be careful work to make the bill as clear and understandable as possible. And this must not impair the rights of employees and the possibility of influence on such an important issue as the fight against coronasmitte. Finally, it is important that the law works within the framework of a strengthened preventive health and safety effort in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112112431	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112112438	Thank you, sir. President. We are still in the midst of the hurricane's eye as far as corona is concerned. The Prime Minister calls it a dance with corona, but I think that if you ask the Danish mink growers, they'll call it anything but a dance I think they'll call it a complete disaster because of the government's illegal order. Now the Prime Minister proposes that we deal urgently with another proposal in the Folketing with the argument about the increasing infection with corona. We hope, of course, that the draft law here is well thought out; it is at least a comfort to us that the DA has been aware of. The aim of the proposal is to allow employers to make demands on employees that they should be able to show a negative coronatest, and we think that this is a sensible starting point. It should just not be the responsibility of employers to carry out the test and employers should not be held liable if an infection occurs at the individual workplace. I therefore hope that the Minister will think that the individual employee will continue to have a personal responsibility for his or her own health. With that in mind, the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112112545	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112112552	One important thing you have to ask yourself when you make new legislation is: is it necessary? Is it necessary for us from in here to create a new law which in this way does away with something completely fundamental to citizens' privacy rights in relation to their health? I am not convinced of this at this stage, and that is why we have certainly not taken a position on this. We must be very careful that we do not move towards becoming a society where there will be a demand for everyone to be tested, even if they are healthy and free of symptoms. This leads, of course, to the next step in asking: will this Parliament demand that an employer require his employees to be vaccinated to get to work? That raises some big questions. In this case, when we look at the text of the law, we are not convinced that there is a proper demarcation on this. It can be recognised that there may be individual positions, critical positions of society, for example. in hospitals and other places where this may be necessary. But here, as an objective justification, there is also just the general consideration of the spread of covid-19, which we therefore think is going too far. Can a bus company now force the bus driver to get a test, even if he's behind plexiglas? Or what about the cab driver? Let's say the taxi driver doesn't think it and says: I have no symptoms, I'm fine, and I'm behind plexiglas. But the employer says you do. Then the driver can say: there is no need for that. Then the employer says, "Okay, I'll fire you." That's really what we're gonna allow with this bill. I recognise that there is a problem with foreign jobs, migrant workers, but I also look forward to hearing whether the Minister cannot explain it. Because I actually believe that we have dealt with this elsewhere. And we have actually adopted things which must limit and safeguard it with migrant workers. So in committee I would like to know whether we do not actually already have the tools needed to deal with it with migrant workers. And then I'm very, very critical of putting a responsibility and a right to an employer in relation to something that interferes with people's privacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112112822	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112112833	Thank you for the floor. I come from a party where Members very, very much appreciate in principle discussions about almost what it should be. And it's really funny if you like to discuss it, but sometimes you can also take some very, very fundamental discussions on some very, very pragmatic things. I do not want to have a very, very fundamental discussion about how corona should be handled sensibly and about what conditions should be in a workplace, because it is very pragmatic and common sense that there should be no covid-19 in the workplace, and that must be found out in some way or other. So just on the basis of general pragmatic considerations, we are backing this bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112112934	Thank you. Then we have the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112112948	Thank you for the floor, President. I would like to start by thanking you for the treatment that the draft law has received so far today. We are again gathered to deal urgently with a legislative proposal that is necessary in order to contain and, above all, mitigate the serious consequences of the spread of covid-19 as much as possible in Danish society. The increasing number of infections is worrying and must be taken seriously. Most recently we have seen how the infection has developed in North Jutland. We have also recently seen that there are Danish slaughterhouses that are cut off from exporting to China, which are putting all this market under massive pressure. All this shows once again that we must act quickly and that we cannot escape the fact that the health crisis and the economic crisis go hand in hand. The goal of the Danish management of covid-19 is to keep the activity in all parts of society as high as possible while keeping the infection down. In addition, testing is a central part of the effort against covid-19 in Denmark. This bill is to be seen in the light of the increasing spread of covid-19 infection in several industries, including the infection among employees of foreign service providers who post employees in connection with the provision of a service in Denmark. As a result, there is an increasing need for employers to be able to have employees tested for covid-19 and also to be informed of the results of the test. The purpose of the bill is therefore to support the efforts to limit the spread and consequences of this disease in Denmark as much as possible. The bill creates the legal basis for employers to require employees to be tested for covid-19 and to inform the employer of the results of the test. As the spread of infection also takes place among employees of foreign service providers who provide a service in Denmark, there is also a need for the actions undertaken to include this group of companies and employees. Therefore, the draft law also involves a change in the Posting of Workers Act. It is important for me to emphasise that with the extension of the legislative proposal to require employees to be tested for covid-19, it is essential to make use of the law that there should be qualified reasons why the employer requires an employee to be tested. As is apparent from the draft law, an employer may require employees to be tested only if this is objectively justified by the need to limit the spread of infection by covid-19, including in order to ensure the working environment or for essential operational reasons available to the undertaking concerned. It is also clear from the draft law that the employer must inform and justify in writing why the employees concerned are required to be tested for covid-19. This is the starting point for the test to be carried out during the normal working hours of the employee. If this is not possible, the employee must be compensated financially for the time spent being tested. There is a great need for us to act now and put the rules into effect as soon as possible, so that employers have an absolutely necessary tool to reduce the risk of spreading corona both among Danish employees and among foreign workers. We are fully aware that the draft law here is far-reaching, as has also been highlighted by several rapporteurs. At the same time, however, this is also necessary when we see that the situation is developing in a negative direction across Europe. That is also why the draft law is designed as a special law with a sunset clause. What we have proposed in the draft law is that it will apply for a limited period up to 31 December 2021. Here too, at first reading, we have been sensitive to the fact that a number of parties have expressed a desire to discuss whether the sunset clause could be earlier, and we are open to that discussion. It has been important for me to involve the social partners in the work on the bill here, and therefore there has been a close dialogue with the Danish Employers' Association and with the main trade union organisation, both of which support the bill. As Minister for Employment, I am particularly pleased once again that the social partners take responsibility and show a sense of community when the crisis hits Danish society and, as Mr. Henrik Dahl says, finds pragmatic, practical solutions to the challenges that arise in an emergency situation. I therefore hope that a very broad majority in the Folketing will support this bill, which could become an important cornerstone of the continued efforts to prevent the spread of infection. I would like to thank you for today's debate and look forward to the forthcoming debate in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112113431	Thank you. There are a few questions. Sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112113436	Thank you. The bill here is about working conditions and corona. Because of the government's illegal order last week, we have seen a process in which mink was killed so quickly that there were the most horrible images of cruelty of animals and mink killed in horrible ways. This is not the Minister's area of responsibility; on the other hand, the Minister's area of responsibility is the working conditions. In the media we could, among other things. Hear that there were many Eastern Europeans who were part of this lightning haste killing mink. Here we are discussing the risk of corona being infected at a workplace. Does the Minister consider that the working conditions during this urgent killing of mink have been good enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112113520	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112113524	I have, I must honestly admit, and that is why I would also like to call on Mr Seligman to do so. Marcus Knuth to put that question in writing, not on the stand here today knowing enough about it to say what working conditions have been like during the killing process that has been going on. Where, on the other hand, I can see a connection between this bill and the situation around mink, is that the mink industry is characterised by at least the most recent figures, which the Ministry of Employment has had that over the last year there have been on average around 1,800 employees in the mink industry, of which approx. 45% of the employees are foreign employees, and in this context, and when you look at how the infection has spread from minkfarm to minkfarm there is still a lack of clarity as to how it has spread, but one of the theories is that it may have been foreign workers who have brought the infection around ■ this bill is very topical, in other words in that light.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112113628	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112113630	Thank you. It is fair enough that the Minister does not have all the facts in front of him right now. But we have all seen what has been going on in the media in the last few days, so from a general perspective: Does the Minister think that the Prime Minister should have acted differently and the Minister for Food should have acted differently from the illegal order and the urgent process that has taken place to get the mink killed?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112113652	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112113654	I mean, when the Statens Serum Institut presents the government with a note with such a serious and strong warning as there was in that note, any government, and I also believe and hope that a bourgeois government would act in the same way, would act on it. Then I think there is every reason to discuss the appropriateness of whether the announcement that the minks were to be destroyed went too fast in relation to the fact that there was not yet a legal basis in place. However, I fully share the view, along with the rest of the government, about the necessity and importance of this being done in the light of the strong warning and risk assessment provided by the Statens Serum Institute.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112113743	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112113748	I would like to begin by commending the Minister for having, from the beginning of the drafting of the bill, involved the employers' organisations and the trade union movement. Once again, we can see that we have an enormous strength on the Danish labour market by having so regulated and arranged conditions that we actually have some parties that we can do things like this with. And the Minister must be commended for including them from the outset, rather than having to enter some stage of consultation afterwards. So much praise for that. I asked a question in my rapporteur's speech, which I would just like to put to the Minister here, and that is what legal position the Minister thinks the employees have in the situation where they either experience symptoms or wait for answers to a test or when they can come to a test. In other words, what is their legal status during the period if the employer insists on and demands that they come to work? It's not such a fantasy question. At the moment we see some contractors in North Jutland jumping out not only as energetic contractors who know about construction and construction, but apparently also as neurologists and health experts who think that people have much better work than going and hanging at home. But what is the employee's legal position in such a situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112113854	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112113856	In general terms, in relation to North Jutland and the restrictions that have been announced, I believe that what applies up there in relation to the specific recommendations is that the management right applies, except if you are in a critical position in society. What I want to say, on the other hand, and what we hear from North Jutland, is that there will of course be examples of companies trying to plan and that there will be some who are carrying out tasks that they may have difficulty completing. But the feedback we get from the vast majority of companies and employees is that they find groundy, practical solutions to the challenges that are certainly not easy to say with reference to Mr. Bent Bøgsted in the treatment we had earlier today. It was not during the spring and early summer that the whole country was in a situation similar to this one and where we should try to organise our lives in the best possible way to limit contact points between people in order to limit the infection.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112113958	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112114000	I fully agree with the Minister that the vast majority of the people out there really find these pragmatic solutions, and they will find out together, just as the organisations, together with the minister, have found a way of getting this bill drafted. But where we need clarification is where we do not succeed, where, as we can see now, there are contractors in North Jutland who themselves believe to know best. Despite the fact that we have health experts, they themselves have sprung out as newly trained neurologists and say that people have a lot better chance of going to work than walking around in iron and fix and getting infected by others or working at home. So here we have to ask: what is the legal position of employees in the situation where the employer claims that they are doing some critical social work, but where it can be a matter of ordinary construction, and where it is more a matter of financial criticism, i.e. the company's short-term profits, than the socialist one? And what will it mean for the employee who, in such a situation, gets fired and comes into the a-box and says that you have been fired on the grounds that you have not come to work? What, then, is the employee's legal position vis-à-vis the cashier? So there are several elements in this which we need to get mapped out from the critical cases and not from the way it is done in most companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112114100	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112114102	What we have done, of course, is to conclude a tripartite agreement with the social partners last Saturday, where we have made a fairly substantial extension and the reintroduction of wage compensation only in North Jutland. And we have actually also raised the limit on how much the individual employee who had to stay at home can get in compensation. In other words, we have actually made it very easy for both employees and companies to recover the costs that exist. I have no doubt for a second that by far most people make this work. Of course there will be some who do not make it work. As long as this is based on calls to reduce activity and contact points, no injunction has been issued, and therefore no one is standing by with a fine block if there are any who cross the municipal border.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112114154	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112114158	Thank you. One of my concerns in relation to this proposal is how extensive it is, and this objective reason. And I would like to ask the Minister's view: is there a legal basis here to allow, for example, that: a school manager may require a teacher to be tested? Will a taxi driver be required to be tested? And what about a plumber who comes to people's private homes and does plumbing work? Then this law also gives the employer the right to require him to be tested? Well, what is it like in these three very specific cases? I could also mention a bus driver. Could we try to be a little more specific? Does this law, in the view of the Minister, allow people who perform these functions to be tested?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112114243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112114245	I think we would like to try to answer some of those questions in writing as well. But let me give you a very concrete example, which in fact has also helped to open up the eyes of both the government and, of course, of both sides of industry to the need for this. That is what I also mention in my speech, with a slaughterhouse that finds that buyers of products in this case China says: We will not buy more products until we have guarantees and certifications from the company that they are produced in a corona-free environment. The only way the company can certify this is to request documentation and information from the employees that they have either been tested regularly or recently before these products are shipped to the customer, which in this case is China. It is just a picture of a very specific situation, and I think we have to expect that more and more of our export companies, in particular, will be met by this demand, particularly from buyers of their products out in Asia.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112114350	Thank you. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112114352	One is what demands they are met by, another is what we in the Danish Parliament ensure of legal status for these employees out there. And that's why I'm looking forward to getting the answers. Here it is proposed that it is up to the employer, that is to say that it is only the relationship with exports that must define what employers are entitled to, and that actually worries me. That is why I believe that we need to be more specific about this. I would also like the Minister to be able to explain in writing what measures have already been taken to secure it with migrant workers, in other words with regard to people who come here. Because I remember that we have done a great deal in this area and that we have done so in cooperation and have been quite reasonable. But isn't it something that really handles many of these problems? Well, we have to be careful not to shoot gray sparrows with guns.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112114438	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112114440	I would like to start by saying that I agree with you, and that is what I said in my introduction and also to Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen, that this is, in principle, definitely going far. At the same time, this must be seen in the light of the very far-reaching and historic crisis that we are facing. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen is right that we have taken a large number of decisions relating to migrant workers, and we have to see this as an addition to those decisions so that it actually works out there on many of the companies that have many migrant workers as part of production and the company.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112114519	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112114522	Thank you for that, President. I'm not so worried about the Danish worker, because if you feel sick, I think most people are interested in being tested; then you want a test. Those for whom I am most concerned are migrant workers who come here, foreign workers who are immigrants who run around in Denmark and often do not feel that they are interested in being tested. These are the ones I'm most worried about. The ordinary Dane will go down and be tested if you feel sick. And we feel that we are very duty-fulfilling. We are also in North Jutland and therefore we want to comply with the rules, and we also want to be tested if the rules that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Employment, and whoever it is, issue are understandable. They're just not in North Jutland. And that's why it's cross-country, so people go to work, and then they don't go to work, and they don't know if they should or shouldn't. There's so much that's incomprehensible. Now I know that the Minister for Employment is very close to the Prime Minister, so a call to the Minister for Employment must be: review the rules that are in North Jutland and see how many of them can be dropped here and now. Because they're so incomprehensible they can't work with.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112114635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112114637	Well, I always take good calls from sir. Bent Bøgsted to me, but at the same time I would also like to say that I am fully aware that this is a particularly difficult situation in North Jutland. Similarly, it was also a particularly difficult situation in which the whole country was back in the spring and still away to a certain extent, in the sense that the vast majority of the measures and restrictions that are announced, because it is all all about our respective behaviour, are calls and recommendations, because we are also a society that very, very much need to start making border barriers between municipalities, for example, to impose or prohibit people from doing certain things because we are and are known to be a trust-based society. But Mr. Bent Bøgsted is right that people should also have an opportunity to understand it, and that is why we on the part of the government and the authorities are prepared to do everything we can to help it along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112114751	Thank you. Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112114753	I don't think I got an answer to one of the questions I asked when I was up on the platform about how the police check at the border, that they don't come in if they're infected or haven't taken a test. But I would just like to return to these incomprehensible rules, because in North Jutland seven municipalities were shut down because they said that there were cluster-5 mink viruses that the vaccine couldn't stand. It turned out that it no longer exists in North Jutland. We're still locked down. We have a low spread of infection in North Jutland, but in the western region of Copenhagen, where many immigrants live, they have a high spread of infection, and at least nothing has been shut down. It is also the kind of thing that makes it very difficult for us in North Jutland to understand the restrictions imposed by the Prime Minister over seven municipalities in North Jutland.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112114838	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112114840	Well, I think, first of all, that what we need to remind ourselves of is that there was nothing about cluster-5 in the very serious risk assessment presented by the Statens Serum Institut. It was partly about the risk that, due to the very, very large minker reservoirs, infection could develop, which infects from human to mink and then subsequently from mink to human, and on how it had a potential risk of undermining a vaccine. And that is among other things. Therefore, the restrictions are harder in North Jutland. Secondly, I would like to say that the situation in the West is certainly something that both the authorities and the government and, I am listening to, a broad majority in the Folketing takes very, very seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112114927	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112114953	The debate is open. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112115002	Thank you for that, President. I think most people know that there have been some problems in this country with foreign companies in relation to employees' wages and working conditions. There are examples of companies coming up here with employees who get a very small salary or where they live under conditions we would never ever offer Danish employees. We must and must always focus on this, and here I also know that more trade unions are interested in it and are fighting every day to ensure proper pay and working conditions for these people, and that is very good. That is why it is also very good that this draft law has been passed by an implementation committee in which the social partners sit. We must always make sure that when some rules are changed in the EU, it must never impair our conditions or thwart the Danish labour market model, but, on the contrary, ensure that those who come up here to work do so on just as good terms as Danish employees. To mention briefly some of the proposals contained in this proposal, I can mention the following: if a posted employee is sent from the permanent place of work in Denmark to another place of work, he should receive the same allowance or allowance to cover travel, subsistence and accommodation costs as apply to Danish employees. The same applies to workers' accommodation, i.e. the place where they are to live and which is provided by employers. After all, here we have all seen some examples of horrors about relationships that we cannot accept at all. From now on, traders without employees must be required to notify and inform the RUT register when work is carried out in industries where there are typically many violations of the rules on the Danish labour market. Finally, and this is something that the FH and DA particularly care about, there will be a website where foreign companies can read more about the pay and working conditions in their territory. And here it is now possible to conflict with them if these rules are not complied with. This is a step in the right direction to ensure that posted workers are guaranteed the same rights as Danish employees. This is an area where examples of companies are often found which try to break the rules that are in Denmark. We must never put up with that, and we must always focus on combating it. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112115212	Thank you. There are no comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112115221	Thank you. The Socialist rapporteur has examined the draft law very well, which contains amendments and clarifications in the law on the posting of employees. This follows from this 2018 directive, and the changes are also recommended by the social partners and involve, among other things, the clarification of the provision on the conflict basis for foreign services. The Left can support that. It is also about adapting the notification obligation to the Foreign Service Provider Register, also known as the RUT, and it is especially in relation to foreign traders without employees. That means, as far as I am aware, that we can continue to ensure that around 83%. of the self-employed who come to Denmark without employees will continue to be subject to the notification obligation to RUT. We think this is good and sensible, because it turns out that there is a risk of foreign self-employed violating the rules in relation to health and safety in the labour market, as well as taxation. Second Vice-President I'm sorry, I'm gonna turn off my phone. Thank you. We in the Left believe that there must of course be order in matters, including in the case of foreign workers who come here to Denmark and work. It will also meet the letter of formal notice from the European Commission, which Denmark received back in 2018. Against this background, the Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112115419	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112115433	Thank you for that, President. There's got to be room for a little bit of everything here in the Folketing. I am not going to go into much detail on this proposal, because it has gone into depth with the tightening-up that is taking place in the RUT register. It is of course because of an EU directive, and it is often the case in the Danish People's Party that we are not so enthusiastic about EU directives, but we would like to vote in favour of something that is, after all, improvements, because this helps to stem social dumping and underpaid foreign labour. In this context, it is also important for a foreign service provider to demonstrate what is pay and what is travel costs. I think they should do that, but the problem with foreign service providers is many times that if they send labour to Denmark, they often agree that the workers get a good salary and everything, but then they have to deliver part of the money to the employer when they get home. There have been several examples of this. I hope, of course, that it will be stopped, but I have some doubts as to whether this proposal can basically stop the traffic in which an employer, for example. Romania, or wherever it is, sends labour to Denmark and says that they get a good salary. It can also be on paper, and there are both travel costs and wages... but then they hand over money to the employer when they get home. I do not know whether this is something we can control at all. However, one question I would like the Minister to answer, and it does not have to be from the platform here, because it is not certain that the Minister can answer it now, is how to control a foreign employer's payment to an employee, in other words to check what is pay and what is travel costs and residence costs. How do you check it so you're sure they won't be underpaid? But the Minister does not have to answer that here. That can be a written answer before we deal with the proposal in the second and third readings, because I do not think it is just the same way to reply to it. I think it is important in this matter that we ensure that foreign employers do not cheat on the weight, but comply with the rules in the Posting of Workers Directive when it comes to doing so. So this can help prevent social dumping, but not, if they just get a good salary on paper and then have to deliver to the employer when they get home. It's something about the employer saying they have to pay something for the trip and all that. But how do you control it? This is, in fact, a crucial issue. Otherwise, however, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112115735	Thank you. Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112115740	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for raising some of these important issues. I also think that it is a good continuation of some of the other things we have done together on some other business arrangements, that it will be a Danish account, and that the board and lodging should no longer be half the salary and all the different parts. Now the basis of conflict for the trade union movement is being clarified here, but I am aware that one of the solutions to what the rapporteur is asking for could be to look at whether there is anything we could do in relation to the right material, the information material or some other thing, so that employees also know and are informed about what rights they have. Is this something that the rapporteur would help to look at, so that we strengthen this part, which the rapporteur also expressed concern about?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112115823	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112115827	But it is true that the trade union movement is given the opportunity to conflict with a foreign employer in this regard. It is always good for employees who come to Denmark to know what rights they have, but how does it help them to know about the rights they have if, when they come home to their country, some of the money is just being paid? Then it doesn't help much. They may then say that they know what rights they have, but it may be that they have such a feeling that they have now got a job, and perhaps some agreements have been made in their country of origin that they do not know about, which means that they have to hand in some money. That is the big problem, and it is probably difficult, if not impossible, for us to control.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112115913	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112115915	Thank you. It's really hard, but there are more, among other things. FPU and others who have done some collaboration across 3F to try to follow up on some of these issues. So I would just like to acknowledge that the rapporteur agrees and shares this concern. And then I want to hear whether the rapporteur will help us to seek out some experience and knowledge outside the Folketing to see if we can do anything to support the work that is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112115940	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112115941	Well, we have no objection to that, and we could ask the Minister for Employment to look at the issue raised by Mrs Victoria Velasquez, if the Minister wishes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112115953	Thank you. No one else wants to ask a question. Then it is Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112120001	Thank you. The rapporteurs before me have examined the draft law, which is partly about ensuring that posted workers are guaranteed the same rights as Danish employees.The part of the bill is based on the recommendation of the social partners. We'll back that up. Similarly, the Radical Left supports the second part of the legislative proposal on targeting the notification obligation resulting from a letter of formal notice from the European Commission from 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112120039	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112120044	Foreign companies and their employees are welcome in Denmark, but they do not have as much as one small hammer punch to do in this country if they do not comply with the agreements, respect Danish trade unions, comply with the Working Environment Act and otherwise pay VAT and tax. If we do not get around in every corner of the labour market every day zealously, it ends in a spiral of death towards the bottom of Danish wages and working conditions to the detriment of Danish workers, but certainly also to the detriment of serious Danish companies who want fair and equal conditions when they compete for tasks. The most important tool is that we have a strong trade union movement that has enough power every day to be present with foot soldiers in the country's workplaces, but in this respect they need a different tool: a register for foreign service providers, which can actually be used in the fight to have organised, regulated and civilised conditions on the labour market in Denmark. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112120147	Thank you. The next is Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112120156	The crucial thing for employees to have decent pay and working conditions is that it also applies to EU citizens when they are taken to Denmark to work. They should not be abused for social dumping, so that wage and working conditions for Danish employees and foreign employees must work in less favourable conditions. Unfortunately, however, we see that the amount of social dumping is increasing because there are simply some employers who cynically exploit EU rules to push down wages. And that is why any action that can counteract that development is good. With the implementation of the new Posting of Workers Directive, the opportunities to counteract social dumping will be marginally improved. It has become clear that wages must contain all the components of the collective agreements, which clarify the basis of conflict for the trade union movement, but it makes demands on employers who do not pay under the agreement. It is also positive that it is made clear by what rules the board and lodging should be followed when the posted employees are to be in Denmark. Unfortunately, however, we sometimes see that when there are improvements from EU rules, there are also some deteriorations. And the EU has demanded that the Danish RUT register be amended so that individual or solo self-employed persons do not have to register in the RUT register unless they are in risk industries. Unfortunately, this opens the door to new opportunities for employers and intermediaries to cynically speculate about using false self-employed people in other areas, after which society must sweep up and add new industries to the risk list. And we acknowledge that the Minister has tried to contain the damage, but we are concerned about the long track. That is why it is our concern in the Enhedsliste that we take further steps to combat social dumping and it is obvious that chain liability will carry out this task. It would also be good to have more checks on the part of the authorities and with ID cards in all places, and to change the tax administration's steering signal so that there will be an opportunity to improve control. In addition, I also think that the pingpong with the Danish People's Party and the rapporteur from there earlier shows that, despite all these parts, even if we do so, there will still be some problems, and this requires us to strengthen this organizational work that the trade union movement is doing, both in Denmark and internationally. Despite the deterioration, which we hope we can change a little, we support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112120440	Thank you. Sir. Marcus Knuth, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112120443	Thank you, President. This bill aims to implement the revised Posting of Workers Directive. This is based on the recommendations made by the social partners in the Ministry of Employment's Implementation Committee. The Conservative People's Party notes with satisfaction that it is the Ministry of Employment's Implementation Committee's view that the bill contains a comprehensive and comprehensive implementation of the directive in Danish law. It is, of course, crucial that Danish legislation complies with EU legislation. The basis for contractual requirements will be among other things: There will be a clearer reference to the source which can inform foreign companies about what applies when posting workers to Denmark. We in the Conservative People's Party always want to look at how businesses are relieved of the administrative burden they are subject to. That is why we also attach importance to the need for administrative work to be as simple as possible for companies. I am thinking in particular of extending the period of secondment from 12 to 18 months, so that only a communication from the employer to the RUT register is required. In addition, the notification obligation of this bill is being targeted. This means that in future the obligation to notify will be targeted at those sectors and groups where data show that there is a high proportion of foreign companies that do not comply with the Working Conditions Act and/or the Tax Act. The Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112120624	Thank you. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112120628	Thank you. Basically, we're positive about this bill. A few points have been raised which we are going to take in committee or which the Minister may be able to answer. But basically, we are positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112120642	Thank you. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112120655	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna go hit Mr. Knox. Lars Boje Mathiesen's record for the shortest rapporteur's speech. So I can say that we support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112120710	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112120720	I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the debate during this first reading. I would also like to thank the parties for the general support for the bill. There is a great strength in the fact that, regardless of party colour, we support and trust that the social partners can regulate pay and working conditions for all groups of employees in the Danish labour market and therefore also for the group of posted workers. At the same time, there is also a great strength in ensuring that we jointly ensure sustainable solutions for both authorities and the social partners to have the necessary framework to ensure fair and equal conditions for both Danish and posted employees on the Danish labour market. The draft law and the debate today are a good example of this. The draft law contains two elements, which several rapporteurs have also mentioned, namely the implementation of the revised Posting of Workers Directive and the targeting of the obligation to notify the Foreign Service Providers Register, i.e. the RUT Register, in relation to the self-employed without employees. With the bill, we improve conditions for posted employees in Denmark by ensuring posted workers the same pay and working conditions that apply also to Danish employees. The draft law has been drawn up on the basis of discussions with the social partners in the Ministry of Employment's Implementation Committee and on the basis of a common understanding between the FH and DA on the necessary adjustments to the law. The draft law thus includes the amendments to the legislation that the Implementation Committee considers necessary to transpose the directive into law and leaves it to the social partners to regulate pay conditions for work in Denmark. The main points in the implementation of the revised Posting of Workers Directive are as follows: there is a change in the basis of conflict with foreign service providers, which means that there can be a conflict for the same pay terms vis-à-vis foreign companies as against Danish companies. In future, the remuneration requirement that can be conflicted with foreign companies must be compared with the information that will appear on the national website in the future. It must ensure more transparency in the wage requirements that foreign service providers can meet. The draft law also extends the hard core of terms that must be guaranteed from day one. In addition, an employee posted in excess of 12 months will in future be guaranteed a number of additional employment rights. As a result, the foreign employer is subject to several obligations vis-à-vis his seconded staff. I believe that the draft law strikes the right balance in relation to the usual minimum implementation of directives in the field of labour law and with full respect for the freedom of agreement in the labour market. The draft law also follows up the Commission's letter of formal notice on the obligation to notify the RUT Register for self-employed persons without employees. The draft law aims to target the reporting obligation for self-employed persons without employees to those sectors in which the supervisory efforts of the Danish Labour Inspectorate and the Danish Tax Administration show a high incidence of infringements in Danish legislation. Among other things: the construction industry will continue to be subject to the notification obligation. An annual assessment will be made of the sectors which will be subject to this reporting obligation in the coming year. Once again, I would like to thank you for the discussion of the draft law here and look forward to further discussion in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112121056	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112121108	The debate is open. Mrs Tanja Larsson, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112121130	Thank you. And thank you for the floor. We must ensure that the provision on labour relations is in line with Denmark's international obligations. That is the background to L 72 that we are discussing here today. Indeed, there is a need to amend the current provision on labour relations for the Faroe Islands, because we want to avoid potential discrimination and ensure that the Kingdom community complies with its international obligations. As the situation now stands, foreigners with a residence permit with the possibility of permanent residence may obtain a residence permit under the provision for continued residence in the Faroe Islands on the basis of the occupational relationship of certain foreigners, provided that the original residence permit is withdrawn or refused, and that the alien is in a permanent employment relationship or has been engaged for a long time in self-employment. As a general rule, this is an employment relationship of at least two years' continuous duration with the same employer or that the foreigner has pursued the same activity continuously for at least two years. The challenge is that the same rules do not apply to foreigners who only have a temporary residence permit. Here, for example, there can be: they are persons who are on a humanitarian basis. They may be granted a residence permit under the social relationship clause only if their residence permit is withdrawn but not if it is refused an extension, even if they have a permanent link with the labour market. According to the assessment of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration, the discrimination between the two groups is not justified under the European Convention on Human Rights, as the two groups are considered to be in a comparable situation. In other words, both groups will have been in the Faroe Islands for 2 years and established a private life and possibly a family life in the Faroe Islands. With L 72, we shall ensure that foreigners who have been granted a residence permit for temporary stay have the right to apply the provision on occupational relations on an equal footing with foreigners who have been granted a residence permit for the purpose of permanent residence in the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112121349	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112121353	This bill is paralleled in the Faroese Laying and aims to align different groups with residence permits in the Faroe Islands. Foreigners shall enjoy the same rights under the bill, whether they have a residence permit for temporary stay or a residence permit for the purpose of permanent residence. If they are refused the extension of their residence permit, they shall have the same access to the applicable employment relationship provision. This provision will thus be extended and, at the same time, we will ensure that there is no illegal discrimination between foreigners in the Faroe Islands. This brings legislation into line with Denmark's international obligations, which, of course, we in the Left respect. At the same time, it is important to stress that Faroese legislation will not discriminate between foreigners seeking a residence permit. The purpose of the bill is to protect foreigners who have been living and working in the Faroe Islands for at least 2 years, thereby establishing a life and everyday life. They may have established a family life in the Faroe Islands, which they want to safeguard. Through their work they have built an association with the Faroe Islands, and therefore it will have major consequences for them and their families if they do not have the opportunity to extend their residence permit. Foreign labour is often needed, including in the Faroe Islands. Therefore, foreigners in employment must continue to be able to obtain a residence permit if they are otherwise refused an extension. The Faroe Islands are very much in favour of foreign labour, thereby meeting the need to maintain foreigners in the country. It is important for the Faroese economy to keep the labour that is in the country and at the same time to provide labour from other countries as well. In the Left, we think it is important that this bill should provide the opportunity to help in a flexible way those foreigners who contribute to society by working. With these words, the Left supports the bill as it stands. I should also like to convey a message from the Sambands party and say that they also support the proposal, and I can also say that it is a unanimous statement that supports this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112121622	Thank you. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is not here, so we move on to Mrs Lotte Rod, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112121638	Thank you. Our rapporteur, sir. Martin Lidegaard, is on the list, so I have promised to say on behalf of the Radical Left that we support this proposal. It may sound a little technical when you hear the various speakers, but basically it is the principle that even if you are only temporarily resident, you can work to stay. And we think that is a very good principle in the Radical Left, that is to say, that people who come into work and thus support themselves and contribute to society are rewarded.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112121712	Thank you. Then we move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112121717	It is good to eliminate discrimination in the Faroe Islands, so that there is no discrimination on the basis of the basis of residence, and the bill will make it easier and more flexible for both companies and employees. SF can see that it is a unified Laying that supports it, and therefore the SF also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112121738	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112121745	So does Enhedslisten, with the same reasons. We believe that it is important to have provisions on the link between the labour market and working in accordance with the international obligations of Denmark, and therefore it is good that this provision should be amended. And we are also aware that a unified layering wants such a change.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112121807	Thank you. Sir. Marcus Knuth, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112121811	Thank you, President. We must, of course, ensure that the whole Kingdom community complies with all international obligations, and therefore there must be no discrimination when it comes to foreigners on different grounds of residence. As I have understood and have heard several times, the proposal here is also being dealt with by a unanimous vote today in the Faroe Islands. So we in Conservatives support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112121834	Thank you. Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112121838	Thank you. Conventions and provisions of international agreements which hinder the conduct of a responsible immigration and integration policy must either be abandoned or rejected by giving priority to Danish law over the Convention. The conventions are made in a different time and for a different purpose. They are not sacred writings and must be adapted to the challenges we face today. It is not in Denmark's interest to maintain obsolete conventions. It is clear from L 72 that it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration which has initiated this legislation, and that is why I have been sceptical about it as a starting point. But if it turns out, as has been mentioned here, that it is a wish of the Faroe Islands, then of course we will back it up. But we shall wait for that in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112121924	Thank you. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112121928	We are pleased that a united Laying supports this change, and of course the Liberal Alliance also supports it here from the Folketing with our 'yes' to the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112121950	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112121956	Thank you. There are several who have explained what the substance of this proposal is, so I shall not repeat that. I just want to say that it is about the Faroe Islands taking over the territory of foreigners administratively per year. January 1st this year. In formal terms, it is still a matter of common concern, but the Faroe Islands can decide in the first instance. The Board of Appeal is still gone in this house because it is formally a common matter for the whole realm. That is why it is being dealt with here today. As I said, I am not going to repeat what this is all about, but I can say that no one has yet ended up in the situation that this proposal is intended to prevent. No one has been affected by that discrimination, not one person. There are only two people at all who have received an application for a residence permit as a refugee countered in the Faroe Islands. There are only two people with that residence permit in the Faroe Islands. In order to obtain a residence permit for humanitarian reasons, the applicant must first have applied for a residence permit as a refugee. No one has ever applied for or obtained a humanitarian residence permit. In other words, no one has been subjected to the possible discrimination that existing legislation allows, but the legislation here means that no one, even in the future, will end up in that situation. The proposal is being dealt with in the second reading today, probably with full support, and that is why it is a wish from the Faroe Islands that we have done, and so I have the fundamental principle that if there is a wish from Faroese that the legislation goes through here in the House, then I support what is the command line of a democracy. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112122142	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112122148	Thank you for the floor and for the broad support for the draft law, in which we propose a minor amendment to the Faroese law on foreigners' access to residence permits for certain types of employment to ensure that the provision on labour relations is brought into line with our international obligations. It is considered that, in certain situations, that provision may involve unlawful discrimination. The potential discrimination is that foreigners with a residence permit with the possibility of permanent residence, e.g.: In the case of refugees, they will be able to obtain a residence permit under this rule if their residence permit may be amended or refused, while foreigners with a residence permit for temporary stay, e.g.: If their residence permit is withdrawn, but not if it is refused, it will be possible to obtain a residence permit under that provision. The draft law therefore proposes to amend the provision so that it includes foreigners with a residence permit for temporary residence, for example. humanitarian residence permit, which has been denied their residence permit. This brings the provision into line with our international obligations. The proposed amendment was introduced into the Faroe Islands in 2008 and it has not been possible to identify cases where the provision has been applied. The change is therefore of a technical rather than material nature. And in agreement with the Faroe Islands' Home Government, the bill in the Faroe Islands is parallel processed at the same time as the discussion here in the Danish Parliament. In those words, I look forward to the further examination of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112122322	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Faroes Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112122334	The debate is open. Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112122349	Today is a day of joy, because with this bill we warmly welcome 2,944 new Danes into our community. The Social Democracy wishes each of you a great congratulations. You have done your duty, you have been industrious and industrious, and you can therefore now demand your right. This bill therefore rewards industriousness and industriousness and, above all, the will to become part of Denmark. Danish citizenship contains a wide range of rights, but first and foremost it obliges it to be part of our community. It is important to remember at this time of joy. Now that you become Danish citizens, we will still make high demands on you, for now we are in the same boat. We're equals, and we take care of each other, even if we don't know each other. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration usually says, Ahmed at Nørrebro must feel a greater commitment to Oda in Aalborg than to Ali in Malmø. As Danish citizens, you have a special obligation to everyone in our community. In this community we perceive ourselves as Danes, and we behave as Danes. It is important that, in addition to contributing taxes on your income month after month, you also make sure that you behave in accordance with being Danish, because in Denmark we behave properly. We don't interfere with who our young people choose to be a boyfriend or a spouse with, whether love turns out to be between two people of the same sex or two people who don't share the same culture, religion or skin color. When our kids screw up, we'll raise them not with violence, but with a promise of forefinger and earnest words. Even if it can be unpleasant, you must accept that everyone can be subjected to criticism, including religions that you profess to be Islam too. As a consequence of the current health crisis, it is proposed that the handshake requirement should continue to be suspended for future citizens. As long as the health authorities recommend not to shake hands, that is common sense and quite reasonable. In conclusion, once again, a great congratulations to everyone with the new Danish citizenship and a warm welcome in our lovely community. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112122552	There are a few brief comments. Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112122555	I must admit that I am appalled by the rapporteur. A day of joy? With this bill, we give 5,000 people the right to be born in Denmark when you bring in the previous law, there are a total of 5,000 foreigners who get citizenship in Denmark. The Social Democrats are trying to look up to be a party that conducts a strict policy on foreigners, and then the rapporteur calls it a day of joy, a day when you sell out of Denmark and give away citizenship to people that we know nothing about. There are many of the people who are on the bill to whom it may be a good idea to give citizenship, but there are also a lot of people that we do not know enough about. I must admit that I am really appalled by what the rapporteur is saying here. One could have said: we have to; I cannot break with the party's line. But to say it's a day of joy is scary though.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112122653	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112122654	It was not to scare Mrs Marie Krarup, but I assume that there are also some on the list that the Danish People's Party is happy to have acquired citizenship. Then we can discuss who isn't supposed to have it. I assume that it is people who have met the requirements and have therefore been given it. And I also believe and hope that there are some on this list... maybe not all of them... which the Danish People's Party actually welcomes have chosen our community for.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112122711	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112122712	But this is basically a wrong way of giving citizenship, and that is also why we are voting against it. The rapporteur also said: we are now equals. In other words, when you are not a Danish citizen, you are not equal to the rapporteur. I think that is a completely wrong way to look at people. It is not a matter of status or rank to acquire citizenship. People are equally good, whether they are citizens or not... you just have some other obligations, and you are part of a nation when you have citizenship. It's not about moving up the ladder when you get citizenship. I am also appalled by the fact that the rapporteur thus looks down on other nationalities. That was a strange observation to make from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112122754	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112122755	For me, it has nothing to do with nationality, it has something to do with meeting these requirements, and when you have citizenship, you have some obligations, but you also have some rights, and that is why, of course, there is a difference between a person who has citizenship in Denmark and someone who does not. In fact, I think we should welcome the fact that there are a lot of people who have chosen our society and who meet requirements that are actually quite strict. And I know that there are also some on this list, which the Danish People's Party welcomes, but you can say that in your rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112122818	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112122821	Thank you very much. We Conservatives have long said that criminal foreigners should not have Danish citizenship, and year after year there are on these lists a number of criminals who then get Danish citizenship anyway. Neither the Social Democrats nor the Left have wanted to support us in this, in other words to get these people completely removed from the citizenship list. But we have asked for the bill not to be shared, so that we can at least vote 'yes' to those we think should have Danish citizenship and vote 'no' to the criminals. The Liberal and Social Democrats have also blocked this. Why are we not allowed to share this bill so that we can vote differently to different groups on this list?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112122903	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112122904	As I understand it, it is possible for the Conservative People's Party to question any application for Danish citizenship and take it up in committee. I cannot, of course, refer to what is being said in committee meetings, but I know that Mr. Marcus Knuth is sitting there and that it would be possible to raise cases. And as far as crime is concerned, we will have to discuss it later, but there may also be a few nuances in it sometimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112122926	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112122927	What we are asking is not what is going on in committee. That is what is going on in this Chamber. In other words, last time there were 15 people on the list where Danish citizenship was granted, which we would have liked to have divorced, so that we could vote against them, and that is not the same as the Social Democrats having to vote 'no'. Why don't you guys vote exactly what you want? However, we would like them to be separated so that we can vote against those who have a criminal background. Why not just let us do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112122950	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112122951	However, there may be various reasons why some punishment has been given, and I still believe that we will be able to take that up in committee. Well, I'm sorry if, on the basis of 15 people, Conservatives vote no to everything. I think that's too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112123004	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112123007	Thank you so much. With this bill, citizenship is granted to 2,944 persons and 799 persons combined in one bill. So we are talking about a mass allocation of citizenship. Does the Social Democratic Party really believe that this is a good way to throw around with Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112123031	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112123032	I do not think that Danish citizenship is being thrown around. In fact, I find it rather difficult to obtain Danish citizenship. I do not think that the dividing line between the blue parties and the social democracy is very great either when it comes to self-reliance or whether crime has been committed. We can discuss how many it is, but I think, as I also said to Mrs Krarup, that there are also some that New Citizens are actually happy to be on the list.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112123055	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112123056	The last time we were in this Chamber discussing citizenship, there were 15 criminals on the bill. The last time we stood in this Chamber on that subject, there were 31 criminals on the bill. And I know it because I have asked questions about it every time we have had to deal with these six-monthly mass awards of Danish citizenship. Does the Social Democratic Party really believe that criminal foreigners deserve to be given the finest gift that Denmark can give, namely Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112123132	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112123133	No, the Social Democrats do not think so. We will discuss this later, and we will also say no. But there may be some special cases. Let us take a thoughtful example of a Muslim woman driving at a women's crisis center because her husband beats her and wants to be part of Denmark, and on the way she gets a speeding ticket. Well, that would exclude her from citizenship. But in general, yes in the long, by far the majority of cases, getting a judgment is enough not to have a Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112123157	Thank you. There are no further comments. The next one is sir. Morten Dahlin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112123208	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to congratulate the many people who, with the examination of this bill, are taking a step further down the road that ends up being able to call themselves Danish citizens soon. I think that congratulations belong because not only is it great to become a Danish citizen. It should also very much be something that has been taken care of, which one has tried to stay. That is why, in the end, we are making high demands on those who want to become Danish citizens. For Danish citizenship is simply not for anyone. But now that most of the trials are behind these people on the bill, I think congratulations are in order. With that said, I would like to take this opportunity to point out that the Left believes that becoming a Danish citizen is something very special. It is not a right, and it should never be a right. On the other hand, becoming a Danish citizen is a privilege. It is a great privilege, it is a gift one can get from the Danish people, and therefore we make and must make strict demands; requirements that must be met to the letter before you can get your hands on the red beet passport. Among other things, you have to... be able to speak and understand Danish, you have to support and support the Danish values, and you have to comply with Danish legislation. You have to want Denmark if you want to be a Dane. This also reminds me of the debate we had when we dealt with the latest draft law on citizenship. It was in the spring when we stood in the middle of the first wave of corona. Here we spent a great deal of time discussing handshakes. At that time, the Left did not support suspending the handshake requirement, because we did not know the length of the corona crisis. However, we also made it clear that if the health authorities still kept their recommendation in the autumn to avoid handshaking, we would like to be involved in a suspension. Now we're in the fall. The health authorities have maintained their recommendation and we therefore, of course, stand by our words. However, it is important to stress that we want the handshake requirement to be reinstated as soon as it is healthy. We even believe that we need to tighten the requirement so that we cannot make all sorts of fake tricks for example. to avoid shaking hands with a female mayor. With those words, I can say that the Left supports the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112123439	Thank you. Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112123442	Does the rapporteur not think that there are too many people who are given citizenship, among other things? In this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112123449	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112123450	We are ready to negotiate further austerity. We have actually been co-subscribers with Mrs Krarup on a letter to the Minister and invited the Minister to convene negotiations because we believe that there are places where the rules can be tightened, for example. In relation to crime. So, yes, we would very much like to debate that, and I am actually a little too sorry that we have to spend such a long day down here in Parliament on a lot of proposals, even later, which we could have avoided if the Minister had pulled himself together and called for those negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112123519	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112123520	Well, the Left still has the opportunity to vote against such a bill here. I mean, it seems a little ridiculous to say it nicely that you have a large number of criticisms, but they just do not express themselves when you are dealing with the bill. For does the Left not also believe that it is wrong that we do not know more about individual applicants? Should we not have screening interviews with individual applicants? I think I have heard the Left talk about that in the past. And yet you stand and congratulate and just want to vote in favour. I find it difficult to see the context of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112123549	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112123550	Well, I keep my congratulations. Being a Danish citizen is a gift, and when you get some of what I personally would regard as one of the most valuable gifts in the world, I think it is appropriate to congratulate you. If I were not a Danish citizen, I would be so delighted to be a Danish citizen that I think congratulations are in order. We have made a citizenship agreement in 2018, together with Dansk Folkeparti. We're on target for that. This bill is a direct implementation of that agreement, which is why, of course, we are also voting in favour. But that does not mean that we are not ready to tighten the requirements. We are. We call on the Minister to call for negotiations. He hasn't done it yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112123626	Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112123629	Thank you so much. Does the Left believe that it is okay for criminal foreigners to have Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112123638	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112123641	No, we think that if you have committed serious crime, you should not be a Danish citizen. That is why there are also a large number of demands. The rules we tightened by 2018 mean that if you have committed crime, you are either excluded from becoming a Danish citizen forever, or you can have a long quarantine. Those rules are good. But I don't necessarily think they're good enough. I think there is room for improvement. That is why, together with the rapporteur's party, we have also sent a letter to the Minister asking the Minister to call for negotiations on both the granting of citizenship, but also the withdrawal of citizenship, because I believe that we can tighten up the rules in this way too. In fact, the Left has today tabled a motion for a resolution on the withdrawal of citizenship for people who commit serious drug crimes. So I look forward very much to the discussions, and with what the rapporteur is asking, it sounds as if there can be common ground to push the Minister into some concessions. Perhaps that is why he has not called for negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112123739	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112123740	In New Citizens we are always ready to ensure that politicians do not throw themselves over and over again with Danish citizenships, as has unfortunately happened for decades. The last time we were in this Chamber dealing with citizenship, there were 15 criminals on the bill. Previously, it was 31. Why is the Left voting over and over again for criminal foreigners to have Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112123803	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112123804	We do not think we should be rewarded with Danish citizenship if we have committed serious crime. That's why we've tightened the rules, so it's actually the case that if you've been given an unconditional prison sentence of over one year, you're out of the question forever. You can never get Danish citizenship. If you have committed perilous crime and received an unconditional prison sentence on, I believe it is more than 3 months, then you can never become a Danish citizen. So we've tightened the rules. We're actually ready to tighten them up again. But I want to say this: if you call everyone criminals on this bill, and that's what I hear the questioner is doing, I think it's tightening it up a little. Because I don't see everyone on this bill as criminals.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112123841	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112123846	The bill here includes 2,944 people. In May we had a law on citizenship, L 180, which gave citizenship to 1,861 persons. So it's barely 5,000 people in a year. That is all, in the opinion of the Danish People's Party, and that is why we are voting against the bill. Too many citizenships are being given at the moment, as has unfortunately been the case in the past. Although the requirements have been tightened up and that is good, they are not sharpened enough at all. A maximum of 1,000 should be given a year and should be given primarily to people who marry Danes. With this law we give far too many citizenships to people from countries that have a culture that is difficult to reconcile with the Danish one. That's not good. We have plenty of cultural clash problems ahead of us. We don't need any more. It is a good thing that we in the Parliamentary Assembly are voting on whether people should have citizenship, that is. citizenship. It is part of the constitution and, fortunately, it prevents people from automatically giving citizenship, which we will have to discuss later today. It would be a disaster if you had to. However, I do not think the procedure is good enough, because we are voting on a single list, and I cannot even get all the information I need about the people on the list. But we should vote for the person and we should get more information about the individual. It's a joke to vote on people you don't know about. Why can I, for example? Not to be told whether people are Christians or Muslims... something that is absolutely crucial today, when we are in the clash of civilizations? We should at least know this when we sit in committee and vote on derogations for individuals. That should be changed. That is one of the many things that should be changed in this area. It is a national disaster that, over the past many years, so many citizenships have been given, especially to people with Islamic backgrounds. This has changed the Danish population forever. It is a matter of resisting that change in every way. One of them is to say stop more citizenships for people with Islamic backgrounds. Therefore, the Danish People's Party cannot support L 73.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112124121	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112124124	Thank you. I believe that the rapporteur's party and my party share the view that on the bill there are both some people who would like to give Danish citizenship to people who come from cultures that are very similar to our own and who live up to the different rules that we would like to see but, of course, there are also some to whom we do not want to give Danish citizenship. It could, for example, be done. be the criminal aliens. May I ask the rapporteur: why does the rapporteur's party not vote yellow with the argument that some people want to be given citizenship, and some people do not want to be given citizenship? Because if you vote red, it is a very strong signal to those who really want to give Danish citizenship that they should not have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112124205	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112124206	I don't think yellow is an option here. We cannot be neutral about the fact that citizenship is given to people from Islamic cultures. We have to say no to that, we cannot accept it. Nor can we accept that we continue to vote in this way, where it is a big pile wedding. We need to take a position on the individual, because it is true, as the rapporteur says, that there are some to whom we would like to give citizenship. We should be able to vote on this individually so that we can vote against those to whom we do not wish to give citizenship. But I can turn to the question: why can the Conservatives continue to vote in favour of these laws when, fortunately, in Conservatives' opinion, everything is wrong with the way we treat the laws? I find this more strange than, of course, we vote 'no' and follow our own convictions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112124301	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112124303	After all, we Conservatives also tried with good cooperation with the Danish People's Party and with New Citizens last to get a divorce, for example. the criminal aliens out so that we could vote against them and yes to others. But a majority in this Parliament would not allow us to do so. But precisely because the Folketing will not allow us to separate, for example. I think it is actually fair to say that we are voting yellow precisely because there are some people to whom we want to vote 'no' and some people to whom we want to vote 'yes'. Can the rapporteur not see some sense in that view?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112124340	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112124341	Well, I understand it's the Conservatives' emergency solution in this round to vote yellow for the bill I can imagine that's what they're up to. I still think it is a little too lame, because it is not the clear position that you have to say no, of course, if there are people on a bill that you do not think should have citizenship. Then, of course, it is bitter to say no to some others too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112124403	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. The next is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112124409	Thank you. I think I would like to make exactly the opposite speech by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I want to start by congratulating you 2,944 adults and 799 children, who with this bill get Danish citizenship. I also want to say thank you for everything you've gone through. You have made great efforts to live up to the demands that are, and you have waited a long time for this to be possible. I am actually sorry that some people are not getting citizenship, because so far the debate has only been about the fact that there were too many. However, in the Radical Left, we believe that it is a problem for our legal society that we have people who meet the criteria but who are then voted down in the Committee on the Rights of the Child without having any justification whatsoever, without having any legal certainty. That is why I believe that what we need is exactly the opposite of what Mrs Krarup said. We are not going to vote individually on people. On the contrary, where we get legal certainty, we are going to get Danish citizenship when we meet the criteria. We must get away from the fact that it is politicians who, at will, sit and say yes or no in a committee. The Radical Left will continue to work for this. But congratulations to those who now acquire citizenship. And then I'm just glad that there's this little curl on the bill that you don't have to shake hands because of corona. I think we all feel that we hope that the Corona will soon go away, but there is one area where we will get something good out of it, namely that the symbol legislation on shaking hands, because a time has been put out of hand. And I hope, when the government is about to evaluate everything about corona, that the Minister for Integration and Foreign Affairs could then be inspired to decide that it was actually unnecessary legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112124632	Thank you. It's first, sir. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112124637	Thank you. We Conservatives have the very sensible view that criminal foreigners should not have Danish citizenship. We believe this because, unfortunately, we see growing problems with criminal gangs, with crime in parallel societies, etc. etc., and once you have granted Danish citizenship, it is very, very difficult to take it from someone again. You in the Radical Left do not agree with that view, so I really just have to hear how high your bars are, that is, how violent crime you can commit and how long you can spend in prison, so that you can still get Danish citizenship, according to Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112124714	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112124715	The starting point is that criminal foreigners do not acquire Danish citizenship. Those are the rules today. It is true, then, that there is a group with minor crimes that can get citizenship, and I personally think that it is appropriate that if, for example, we do so. If you have a speeding ticket, you can get citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112124739	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112124740	To be honest, the rules say that you can spend up to one year in prison and, after a career, still get Danish citizenship, and then the rapporteur talks about a speeding ticket. You have to do some pretty violent crime to go to jail for a year. When we tightened up the rules two to three years ago, the Radical Left was not included in the agreement because it seemed to be too tight. In other words, the Radical Left must have the view that Danish citizenship must be granted to people who have been in prison for longer than one year. How many years can you spend in prison in Denmark and still get Danish citizenship, according to Radical Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112124816	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112124818	I don't have such a definite limit on that. What I need to say is that it is wrong when the Conservatives or others make it sound like criminals can just get citizenship. There are already very strict rules that criminals cannot just get citizenship, and that is why it is wrong to make it sound such in the debate that everyone just gets it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112124843	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112124847	I am not surprised that the Radical Left is giving these views, because the Radical Left is an extremist party and a party that has helped to create the cultural clashes and the unfortunate situations we have in Denmark regarding our cultural cohesion today. It is extremist to want to keep opening the doors to people with a Muslim background when you see what is happening in France and Austria at the moment. It's really extremist. However, my question to the rapporteur is that it is being said that the procedure will be changed. Is the rapporteur aware that it is in the constitution that we should vote on citizenship? So does the rapporteur want to change the constitution in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112124941	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112124942	What I want to change is that it should not be up to politicians and what they might think on the day of the Committee on the Rights of the Child about granting citizenship or not. Because this means that the individual applicant has no legal certainty; there is no justification; there is no equal treatment; there is no equal treatment; there is therefore the principles that we normally lay down for our community of law. Therefore, if there is any place where we can be said to be extremist, it is in relation to our legal principles, and I want us to be a society that has strong legal principles. And I would also like the Danish People's Party to be more concerned about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112125025	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112125026	Now, then, the Constitution says that it is a political decision whether people should have citizenship, and it is precisely political values that lie behind it. It's not law, it's political decisions. After all, what the rapporteur is arguing for is to create an expert power in which it is purely legal to decide what is now political decisions. Frankly, that sounds crazy. I am really, really happy with paragraph 44 of the Constitution, which says that citizenship is a political decision, and that is why we should have all the cases in the Chamber, so that we can hear exactly why yes is being voted and why no is being voted on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112125108	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112125109	I simply think that is factually wrong, because it is just as much a political decision that we decide who should have citizenship. And when we have set in here the criteria for obtaining citizenship and the criteria for obtaining a nationality waiver, we can make a system from which there can be far greater legal certainty, transparency and equal treatment than there is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112125139	Thank you. No one else has any comments. Then it is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112125147	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to start by congratulating the new Danes, who are now acquiring citizenship. Welcome! The way to do this has not been easy for you, but as the rapporteur, who was here before me, on behalf of the SF, has said at some point, it is the most significant turning points in your life that require the greatest effort, and I agree with her on that. The citizenship that you are now granted is the fruit of hard labor and the belief that Denmark is a diverse community, which also has room for you. You have learned Danish, you have come into work, and you have finally passed the citizenship test. Now Denmark is our country. Both for me and for you, it's a commitment. We are committed to our rule of law, our democracy, the desire and work for gender equality and our freedom of expression. These are the basic pillars of the Danish community and now also your basic pillars. None of the values in these basic columns can be deselected. The pillars are supporting, they uphold the whole of society, our freedoms and our rights, and therefore they must be respected and respected as one. I wish you good luck in the future, and I hope that with your citizenship you will participate actively and enrich Denmark. Once again, great congratulations. Against this background, I can inform you that the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112125343	Thank you. There are no comments. There has been little tendency to talk to people who are not present in this Chamber. We usually talk to each other, so I would very much ask that this be done here from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112125401	Thank you. With that note from the President, I would like to congratulate all of us who are sitting in here that we now have a lot of new Danish citizens. I think that is very nice, and I really think that we should all be very happy about that in the Chamber, and those who see it should be very happy about that. A lot of the people who have acquired Danish citizenship have lived in Denmark all their lives or at least for a very, very many years, and many of them have worked hard to get this citizenship. For a citizenship is not something that in Denmark hangs on trees or is easily accessible; it is actually the opposite. It is very, very difficult to become a national of Denmark, and there should be no doubt that we in the Enhedslisten believe that the rules governing the acquisition of citizenship today are far too tight. In fact, we would like to see more people who live in this country and who have their lives here become full members of the Danish community, which you become when you become a citizen. However, for many of the parties of the Folketing, the question of who can acquire citizenship has been politicised to an extreme degree. A citizenship is perceived, and it has also been promoted in the course of today's debate, as a noble gift and not as a right which it is, of course, acquired by living in Denmark and contributing to Denmark. In contrast, in many of the countries with which we compare, the acquisition of citizenship is an administrative act in which the applicant can apply on the basis of clearly formulated, transparent criteria. That is not the case in Denmark. As you know, it is the Danish Parliament that adopts a bill on the communication of citizenship, but a road ticket or a guy slip can make you lose the right to citizenship, and while in most other countries with which we normally compare, you would be given a reason for refusal and have the opportunity to complain, that is not the case in Denmark. In a rule of law there must be transparency and it must be clear what is the basis for the decisions that are being taken. This is something we are discussing a great deal in other contexts where I have noticed that most parties are very concerned about the clarity of the decisions. This should also be the case with the issue of the granting of citizenship. We believe in the Enhedslisten that it is untenable that the citizens who lose their opportunity of Danish citizenship should not be informed of what is behind that decision. Most recently, Politiken was able to report that several applicants for citizenship had been removed from this bill because they are suspected by PET. These are people who have not been convicted and who have no opportunity to complain. They're not innocent until proven guilty, but convicted guilty without evidence. Such things are not worthy of the rule of law. For us, it is an independent goal that the people who live here in Denmark and have their lives here, integrate, become part of Denmark and thus become full members of the community that we have in this country. And that's what you do when you get Danish citizenship, among other things. because you get the opportunity to vote. We certainly do not want a large group of people to live in Denmark who are not Danish citizens and who cannot participate on an equal footing with everyone else, for example. in relation to voting for the Folketing. On the contrary, I think it is fantastic if as many people as possible who live and live here in Denmark are full members of our society. I think that will actually bring us closer to each other and no longer apart. I also believe that it is not only for the benefit of the individual who acquires citizenship, but also for the benefit and benefit of society as a whole, if we succeed in integration and everyone feels included. Unfortunately, we are heading towards a society in which a growing group of people must live here with the rest of us without full civil rights, which comes with the red beet passport. This is a worrying development which Enhedslisten would like to help reverse, both by making it easier to obtain permanent residence permits, but also by making it easier and more transparent to obtain Danish citizenship. Well, having said that, I must of course stress that we in the Enhedslisten think it is really, really nice that there are so many people who have come through the narrow and difficult labyrinth that has been set up to become a Danish citizen. That is why, of course, we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112125849	Sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112125851	Thank you. I think it is quite crazy to hear the rapporteur stand and say that it is a narrow maze to get Danish citizenship and that the rules need to be relaxed. Honestly, last time there were 15 criminals, and the time before it was 31 criminals, and then Enhedslisten will relax the rules. How many criminal foreigners think Enhedslisten should have Danish citizenship every year?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112125916	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112125917	Now it is the case that, in a rule of law, one has paid off one's debts once one has endured one's punishment. This is just not the case when applying for Danish citizenship. Then you have that punishment hanging on forever, and we kind of think we should change that. I agree that there may be some very serious crimes where there may be exceptions, but I would like to say that, as a starting point, the principle that, once you have served your sentence, you have finished being a criminal must also apply to cases of citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112125942	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112125945	What is interesting is that the rapporteur says at least that there is some limit, that is, some very hard crimes. Where's that limit? How many years in prison?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112125951	I think that a good example is war criminals, to be quite specific, I would say to Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112125957	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Dahlin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112130004	I took note of the fact that the rapporteur has problematised that people had been removed from various draft legislation on the communication of citizenship following the recommendation of PET, because PET considers that they are a threat to the security of the state. So I just have to understand: is it really the position of Enhedslisten that it is wrong when a majority in the Folketing removes people from the bill on citizenship notification that PET has assessed as a threat to the security of the state?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112130038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112130039	What we oppose is that these people are suspects; they are not convicted. And then we also oppose the fact that they cannot have access to find out for themselves why they have been refused and that they cannot complain.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112130054	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112130056	That was a very fine speech, but it did not answer the question. Does Enhedslisten think it's wrong when a majority in the Folketing removes people from this bill that PET has assessed as a threat to state security? Is that wrong? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112130113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112130114	Then we are back to it, as I answered Mr. Morten Dahlin before, namely that it is extremely difficult to know about, because we do not know the specific circumstances.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112130123	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112130126	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'm trying to follow up on sir. Marcu Knuth's question, because I understood on the Enhedslisten that the only thing you could do was not get Danish citizenship... did I get it right? Does this mean that, with regard to everything else, such as paedophilia, rape, terrorism, the Enhedslisten believes that once you have been punished, you can have it, that is, that war crimes are the only thing that, like, makes you unable to get it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112130147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112130149	Well, I feel that way, and we have it in the Enhedslisten that you are not punished forever, that you are not a criminal forever. That is also one of the reasons why we have abolished the death penalty in this country. So that's the answer, I hope, to Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen's question. I agree that there should be a waiting period, but I think that the rules are too tight today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112130211	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112130212	What should the Karen period, for example, be? be for an IS warrior or someone who has raped, if, after all, the Enhedslisten can stretch so far that you cannot get it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112130224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112130225	But now it is the case that there are plenty of Danish citizens who have acquired their citizenship by birth who commit crime. There you can just look at our prisons, so we can't let citizenship depend on whether you commit crime. If you think about it at the end, you will find yourself in a situation where a great many Danes who have committed some form of crime should have deprived their citizenship, and I honestly do not think that is what the Social Democrats think. But it is easiest if the Social Democratic Party itself is to interpret its own policy, I would say.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112130259	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Marcus Knuth. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112130307	Thank you, President. Criminal foreigners should not have Danish citizenship. We Conservatives have been fighting this for some time now, I think we can say. At the last reading here in the Danish Parliament there were 15 criminals on the list, and the time before that was 31. We Conservatives would have liked to have removed them, or at least separated them, so that we could vote against them, but there was no majority for that in the Folketing, among other things. Because of the Social Democracy and the Left. We thought that was a real shame. Now we are faced with a rather strange situation in which the Ministry has not provided the background materials that are usually on the people on the list, so we do not actually know how many criminals are on this list. I think that is really, really a pity, because it is a little difficult to stand here and deal with a bill without knowing how many criminals are on the list. However, because the Minister has still not called for negotiations on the rules of Danish citizenship, it is all other equally fair to assume that there are criminals here on the list, because I am well aware of that with the current rules, and those who have a criminal background, we Conservatives do not want to give Danish citizenship to. So there are also many well-integrated foreigners on this list who have embraced Denmark, who really want to be part of our society and who share our values, and we want to give them Danish citizenship. That is why we expect Conservatives to vote yellow for the bill in order to signal that yes, there are some to whom we would like to give Danish citizenship and some to which we do not want to give it. But all the other things being equal, we are certainly waiting for that decision when it is the case that the Ministry finally presents the background materials that we have still not received.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112130457	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112130501	Thank you so much. The Conservative People's Party has been on a journey... let's just put it that way. Twice, while I have been sitting here in the Danish Parliament, the Conservative People's Party has voted in favour of a bill on citizenship on which criminals have been convicted, even though it was actually said that they would do the opposite. Now you have come so far that you vote yellow, and I would just like to sign for that. However, we are talking about the fact that it is still a bill that is most likely criminals on the Internet. I have myself asked how many criminals there are on this bill, and I have not received an answer yet. But why does the Conservative People's Party not vote against the bill? Does it really mean that it is so ambiguous in terms of whether we are going to vote for or against this bill, or does it really mean that we could just say no, so that we could hopefully tighten the rules soon?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112130553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112130554	First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Mette Thiesen for also asking the question in committee. I myself have waited with longing, just as she has, and I find it strange that we cannot get that answer. I think we should take this up in committee so that we have those answers in the future before the first reading. However, as I have said, we believe that there are people on this bill who are integrated and who have taken Denmark into account, and then there are some who in no way have it. We last tried to split the bill so that we could vote differently, and we could not. And then we think it's most fair to vote yellow.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112130630	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112130631	Okay. Well, we kind of backed up the fact that the bill had to be split up last time. We will also be proposing that it should be split up even more so that those who come from cultures that are compatible with the Danish and those who do not can really be considered. And in New Citizens we have a clear position that people who come from Muslim countries and who we can see are criminals when they come here do not give citizenship. But it is really just a receipt, and I hope that the Conservative People's Party will continue to fight against this. I would have liked the Conservative People's Party to have voted red for this bill, but it is, after all, a journey you have been on, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112130714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112130715	Thanks for that receipt. I just want to say that it is important for us to send a clear signal to those who are well integrated and those who have taken Denmark to them. So we do not want to vote against it. At the same time, however, we do not want to vote in favour of the criminals either.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112130728	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112130749	Now we are again on a sad occasion: great birthday, the six-monthly mass award of Danish citizenship. This bill gives no fewer than 2,944 persons and 799 persons Danish citizenship. In New Citizens we vote no. We have done so every time, and we continue to do so. We will not go along with the way in which most politicians in here throw around with Danish citizenships to people who should never have had it. In 1983 a large majority in the Folketing adopted the harmful alien law, which opened the doors of Denmark and allowed the alien masses to flow in. It was, and still is, completely insane. In 2008, Denmark's Statistics produced a projection showing that we in Denmark could expect 340.518 non-western immigrants in the year 2050. But we have already surpassed that figure now, and it is appalling. Mosques shoot up in several cities, the women's oppressive Muslim scarf thrives in institutions, schools and in public workplaces. Halal meat and gender-separated swimming are readily accepted. The immigrant gangs are shooting at us on the street. Terror protection has become today's architecture. Police, rescue and home helpers meet with violence and vandalism in foreign-heavy residential areas. Crime committed by people with Middle Eastern, foreign, or Arabic looks is daily literature in the local media. Male non-western descendants are more than twice as criminal as Danish men. 39 per cent of non-Western descendants want to impose restrictions on newspapers to protect people's religion. Freedom of speech is under massive pressure. Most politicians in here don't care. It's shocking. In New Citizens we do not believe that Danish citizenship should be given to immigrants and descendants from Muslim countries, as we have statistical evidence that immigrants from there and their descendants commit crime much more often than Danes when they arrive here. And that is why, of course, we are voting against this bill, which is a mass award of Danish citizenship. Danish citizenship is a great gift. It is a gift we must cherish and not throw around with us to the right and left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112131045	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112131100	Thank you for the floor. We are in favour of it being difficult to become a Danish citizen, but we are also in favour of being able to become a Danish citizen, and we have worked actively on that balance. We helped shape the circular that is currently in force. I myself have also been on the Committee on the Rights of the Child for a period of time, and I therefore cannot recognise the picture that it is easy to obtain a derogation or that the Folketing is throwing around with exemption applications. A rather thorough and rather critical procedure is being carried out. We have no objection to the circular being tightened further. We are also co-signators of a request, as Mr. Marcus Knuth has been an anchorman for the minister, so we can call for some negotiations to tighten the circular. However, we are also confident that there will be a sensible and critical procedure for the derogations that will be granted. That is why we support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112131224	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the next on the list of speakers is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, as all the rapporteurs have spoken. Welcome to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112131236	Thank you. And thank you for the discussion here at first reading, which I would like to begin by welcoming. With this bill on citizenship, it is proposed that 2,944 persons plus 799 persons should be granted Danish citizenship. The largest group of applicants are from the UK. That is 293, and we have seen that in recent legislative proposals, and it is, of course, linked to the situation around brexit, where we see that many people are looking for Danish citizenship. The second largest group is from Germany, the third largest group is from Pakistan, the fourth largest group is from Ukraine and the fifth largest group is from the United States. It's not really on my speech paper, but I just want to say that to the discussion about who we're talking about here. They come from all corners of the world, and it's not just from the Middle East. The granting of citizenship to foreigners is a great declaration of trust from Danish society, and today it requires a solid effort to become a Danish citizen. That is why I am also pleased that we decided in the circle behind the most recent agreement on citizenship from 2018 that the award of Danish citizenship should be marked with a solemn event in the form of a constitutional ceremony. Here, applicants must show respect for Danish values and respect for government representatives. At the ceremony, the applicant agrees to comply with the Constitution and to respect fundamental Danish values and legal principles, including democracy. The municipal constitutional ceremonies have just proved their worth. After a hard start in the spring with cancelled ceremonies all over the country because of the ban on assembly and the recommendation to avoid handshakes, the municipalities, after the temporary suspension of the handshake just a few weeks ago, have held the last constitutional ceremonies, at least in this round. And the reports from the municipalities are positive: The basic law ceremonies are described as festive and solemn events in which our new citizens radiate joy and pride, and the feedback from the municipalities I think we can only be satisfied with. We are then still in an extraordinary situation because of the covid-19, and on this law 2,635 persons are subject to the requirement to participate in a constitutional ceremony. In view of the current situation, it is the Government's view that we should also temporarily suspend the requirement of handshake here too. We cannot allow thousands of applicants to wait for an indefinite period to become nationals when, moreover, they meet all other requirements. At the same time, however, there is no reason to completely cancel the constitutional ceremonies when, moreover, they can be held under proper conditions by suspending the handshake. I hope that the many people will have a festive and solemn day again, and that they, like the other applicants who have been included in the bill, will be happy and proud fellow citizens who take part in Danish society. In those words, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for a good debate. I look forward to the further examination of the bill here in the Folketing. And, of course, we are always available to answer any questions that may arise in connection with the examination of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112131548	Thank you, Minister. A number of rapporteurs have asked for brief comments. The first is sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112131554	Thank you very much. I was so happy back in the spring when the Minister signaled that if there was a need to convene new negotiations on tightening up Danish citizenship, the Minister would do so. But then nothing happened, even though I expressed that need. Then we gathered the blue parties in a joint letter to the Minister with a call for negotiations and nothing happened. And now we are in this bizarre situation that we Conservatives are forced to vote yellow for the first time in the history of Denmark, because the austerity we would like to see, the tightenings we would like to discuss with the Minister, we cannot get through because the Minister has simply not called for negotiations. And it is, after all, in spite of the fact that the Social Democrats themselves have signalled that it is also thought that something can be tightened up at least. I even think one of the rapporteurs of the Social Democratic Party said: then there will be negotiations before winter. Now we are in November, and I do not quite know when winter begins in such date-wise, but it annoys me that we still haven't gotten that invitation. Why has the Minister not called back in the spring so that we should not be in this situation now?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112131702	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112131703	Winter is December, January and February, I have been taught about. And as I have said several times before, all parties of the Folketing will receive an invitation and it will be sent before Christmas for negotiations after Christmas. But I would also like to say that, when we have negotiations, we change the circular, which means that the Ministry is changing its administration of who is going to be on the bill and who is not going to be on the bill. But that probably wouldn't have changed so much in this bill, because after all, it has been dealt with according to the old rules. That is why I think the Conservatives should reconsider, if they cannot support a legislative proposal which has been dealt with in accordance with the rules which, after all, are not more than two years old and which the Conservatives, even as part of the then government, were involved in negotiating and which, although we had been negotiating now, would not have changed this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112131752	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112131753	But here we are talking about something as special as the granting of Danish citizenship, and when the Minister's own party has signalled that it wants tightening up itself, the Left has said it, the Liberal Alliance has said it, we have said it, why wait? Well, it's almost a year from spring this year to what's going to be on the other side of New Year. Why do we wait so long to call for negotiations that are wanted by so many parties and so important?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112131821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112131822	I agree that negotiations would be good. Social democracy itself has also been elected to change the rules governing the granting of citizenship, and we have pointed to crime as a place where we believe there is a need to adjust the rules. But having said that, I think we should also bear in mind that the rules are from 2018; they are not from the 1700s. They've practically just entered into force. We have had very few legislative proposals in which those who are granted citizenship are dealt with in accordance with the new rules. So I also believe that we should negotiate and discuss this here in a framework that does not constantly change the underlying rules in the field of foreigners, but rather that we should have rules that work for a few years so that people know what they have to comply with.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112131906	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112131909	Now the Minister says who is on this bill, but I can tell the Minister that there are 136 from Pakistan and 84 stateless persons. There are also 52 from Somalia, 109 from Turkey, 78 from Iraq, 44 from Iran, and I could go on. That's not what we were supposed to talk about right now. It's really just to put things in perspective so that the minister doesn't get the chance to just make this shine picture of who's really on this bill. But I asked a question some time ago about how many criminals there are on this bill, and I would really just like to hear the Minister if I could get an answer soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112131952	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112131953	Well, I would like to start by saying that I also mentioned Pakistan, because Pakistan is at the top five together with the United States, Ukraine, Germany and Britain. Moreover, there is an annex from which I can also hear the rapporteur reading. But the question is this: I also heard the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party asking where the answer goes when the rapporteur was on the floor just now, and that is why I was just trying to look into it. As far as I am aware, the answer should have been sent to the Folketing. That's the answer to question 1 to this bill, and of that one can see, not only who has come up with this bill after having endured his career, but all who have been convicted of violations of the law, including legislation that is not so serious that it has had any impact on whether they could come up with the bill. If it has not been sent to the rapporteurs, we must have it sent as soon as possible, because I have been told that it has been sent to the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112132052	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112132053	I'll be delighted. I'd love to take a look at that. I checked the Parliament's website yesterday during the question I put to this bill, and there was no answer; I could not find it, and Mr. Marcus Knuth couldn't find it either. I would, of course, like to look into that further, so thank you for that. I'll take a look at that, and then I can follow up on what follows. So thank you for that. With regard to these debates on citizenship, perhaps I would just like to have some clarification, because we have waited some time for this, and there will be more and more legislative proposals in the Chamber before we really have had some negotiations. When exactly will we be called up?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112132136	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112132137	My plan is to send the call next month. The answer sent to the Committee on the Rights of the Child is, of course, confidential because it contains some personal information, but of that one will be able to see, and I dare say this without revealing anything about confidentiality, that there are of course a considerably greater number of applicants who have been convicted of any form of crime than in the document that is always handed over to the Committee on the Rights of the Parliament after the first reading, of which one can see who has been the carnage of a little more serious crime, and that may help to qualify the discussion. After all, we cannot read from the specific cases and who has been convicted of what, but we can at least discuss what the difference is between those who have been convicted of serious crime and those who have just been convicted of crime at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112132229	The next brief remark is to Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112132232	Thank you. It is very much the Danish People's Party's merit that there are at all strict rules for obtaining citizenship in Denmark today. We are extremely pleased about this, but we are also sorry that they have not gotten any tougher yet. We have always tightened as much as we could, but I think we have come to a place where we need to tighten considerably more now. Because the Minister would not agree with me that there is a difference between giving citizenship to Western Europeans, for example. British, and then on giving it to people with Muslim background? Given that we already have parallel societies and have major problems with cohesion, is it not problematic that there are so many people with Middle Eastern or Islamic backgrounds on the individual laws on citizenship, and should we not ensure that it was changed so that you cannot obtain citizenship in Denmark if you have an Islamic background?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112132339	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112132339-2	I listened particularly, of course, when the debate was going on about this in connection with the discussion earlier. But I also take the view that it is quite obvious that anyone can see this by looking up the statistics that it is harder to integrate into Danish society if you come from a Middle Eastern country than if you come from a Western European country. It is a banality, it is just to look up the statistics, and that is why our appeal is also to people who migrate to Denmark from the Middle East: Now make extra effort to become part of Danish society, take an education, don't commit crime, get a job, become an active part of Danish society. And that is what is reflected in the requirements for citizenship. If they then meet those requirements, then we will have to be able to say that they will, of course, have citizenship. And then we shouldn't be sad that they've met those requirements, but then we should be happy about it. That is why I very much agree with what has been said by several rapporteurs today that this is a day of joy. Because when we look at these figures about how many people are on that bill, it's an expression that some people have lived up to some pretty cash demands and that have become an active part of Danish society. We must not cry about that, but we must rejoice about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112132443	Thank you, Minister. Here you go, round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112132451	Thank you. I think the Minister will agree with me that, even if we meet these requirements, it is not necessarily enough for us to actually become Danish, and that is why it will contribute to the integration problems we have in today's Denmark. I believe that we should move towards a situation in which we vote on each individual, so that we can look at his entire lifecycle and attitude towards becoming part of Denmark and, for example, in Denmark. take into account whether one is a Christian or a Muslim, and then at the same time get the number down a lot. For one can say: well, yes, but they meet some requirements, and then we should be happy, but if the demands are not good enough, if there is not a sufficient position taken, who knows if we are voting in favour of a future terrorist today?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112132543	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112132544	First of all, Mrs Krarup is free to take up any person on this bill on the Committee on the Rights of the Child and demand that the matter be dealt with. In this sense, there is, after all, individual treatment. The fact that we have a circular is to make it a little easier to manage both for the Folketing and for the government. Secondly, I think it is also important to say that there are 300,000 people in this country who have roots in a country where the majority profess Islam. We need to make sure that these people find a path into Danish society. One of the paths is to say: You can become Danish citizens if you meet some requirements. We must not close those paths, because then we will prevent integration. We must insist that we make every effort to get to the toe tips, as the previous minister said, but it is possible to become a full part of this society. We must not close that door, because then I think it will be counterproductive for the integration of the many people who have come here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112132638	So thank you to the Minister, and thank you to the authors. As no one else has asked to speak here, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112132654	This resolution has emerged from a citizens' proposal. The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112132719	Thank you for the floor. The question of the conditions to be imposed on foreigners who wish to have Danish citizenship is raised regularly in the political debate and often in this Chamber, and I am really only happy about that, because this is an important issue. The proposal here suggests that foreigners who have been legally resident, understood as temporary or permanent residence permits, in Denmark for a continuous period of 10 years, should be granted Danish citizenship without further conditions, i.e. as a gift from the members of the Folketing on behalf of the Danish people. The proposal also envisages that the existing possibilities for applying for citizenship within the first 10 years of Denmark should be maintained or improved, but not for those convicted under Chapters 12 and 13 of the Penal Code, which deal with treason and terrorism. It is the government's view that the granting of citizenship to foreigners is a great declaration of confidence from Danish society. We trust that they feel loyalty to Denmark and to the people who are here in Denmark. This confidence is based on concrete experience that people have become part of society, that they have not just been in the country for a certain number of years. Of course, we 179 members of parliament cannot have the practical experience of all the thousands who are seeking, and that is why we now have a number of conditions for becoming a Danish citizen, and it is on the basis of the conditions that the draft law on the granting of citizenship is drawn up. This concerns, among other things: requirements for self-reliance, knowledge of the Danish language and culture, and that you do not commit crime. In my view, it is only right and proper that we expect such specific requirements to be met before we declare confidence that people feel loyalty to Danish society and that we thereby give them citizenship. And you can also see from the recent draft legislation on the communication of citizenship that there is in fact a relatively large group of applicants who think it is worth the trouble, so it is quite impossible it is not. They have made efforts to meet the conditions and have therefore been included in a legislative proposal, and I am pleased about that. The government cannot therefore support this motion for a resolution. To make a long story brief, I am basically quite satisfied with the current balance of the rules. Having said that, I am always ready to look at whether the cut is right or whether there is a need for some adjustments and, as I have said before, I expect that on this side of the turn of the year we will be calling Parliament's parties for discussions on the adjustment of the conditions for the right of birth, with a view to opening negotiations after the turn of the year. But it will not be with a proposal for automatic citizenship after 10 years. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112132957	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112133001	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. I just have one question about this citizen's proposal. Does it not make a great impression on the Minister that so many people in Denmark believe that the citizenship rules are too strict and that this should be made easier? So it is in fact on a positive occasion that we are standing here today, namely that so many people in Denmark actually care about the citizenship rules, and it must surely impress the Minister that so many people living in Denmark think that the rules should be a little less stringent than they are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112133037	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112133038	I am quite glad that citizenship has been put on the political agenda, because I think that Parliament has had such a rather sloppy approach in the past to what has been given out a lot of citizenship without any reasonable demands being made. So I am glad that the debate is there and I think it is good that many people are involved in the discussion. However, the fact that 50 000 sign a citizens' proposal in a society in which we live several million people and, incidentally, where any member of parliament could table that resolution does not mean that I take it more seriously than if it were a political party that had tabled the proposal. Now we have those rules and then we are dealing with the resolution. However, I do not think this specific resolution is an example of a particularly creative idea coming from the people's deep, which could not have been invented here in the Folketing, for example. in the author's own lot.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112133133	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112133134	[Sound emission]... that this citizen's proposal is not based on Enhedslisten's policy, which I think the Minister knows so well, since we are quite clear in the Enhedslisten, as to what we think the citizenship rules should look like. I just think it's more about there being so many people who actually want the rules to look different and who engage in something that is in many ways so nerdy and technical, but who, of course, fills a lot for the people involved, i.e. the people who walk around Denmark and do not have citizenship. And there I am just glad to hear that the Minister is impressed and that, like myself, the Minister is very much looking forward to this debate. At least that's how I interpret the answer I got.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112133218	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112133218-2	But I am glad that there is a motion for a resolution on the territory of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration, because it is an expression of the fact that some people, after all, outside these thick walls, are interested in these rules. I'm just saying that this particular proposal I could also see formulated by a party in the Folketing. And if the idea of citizens' proposals is to make sense, it has to be because there's something so creative that it couldn't be conceived in this hall. And I'm thinking that this is what I could imagine others having put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112133254	The next brief remark is from Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112133257	Thank you. I am a little surprised that the Minister is now saying that the rules of Danish citizenship are generally fairly good enough. After all, we have both a minister and a prime minister who has made a great deal of effort in dealing with the problems of parallel societies and immigrant boys, and what else the Prime Minister has said. I think that if you ask the Danes what the biggest problem is with parallel societies, it is crime. So how can the Minister say that there is no need for stronger austerity, while at the same time constantly saying that there are problems with parallel societies and crime that need to be solved?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112133334	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112133335	In fact, I think that, overall, the current rules are good. I also think it would be a little untrustworthy if I suddenly meant something else, since I myself was involved in negotiating them two years ago. That does not change the fact that I can see that there is a need, especially when it comes to crime, to make some adjustments. But we will not have to put forward a complete revolution on the part of the government in the area of the message of citizenship. We think there are a few places where we have to get in and screw some buttons where we can tighten up a little. But it is not an expression of my view that the current rules are quite hopeless, because I do not really think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112133412	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112133413	Thank you. I would say that we Conservatives obviously believe that there are clearly more problems with crime and parallel societies than Social Democracy does. The Prime Minister has then been out saying the things she has said about immigrant boys and that we need to tighten up. Does the Minister think that the group of immigrant boys referred to by the Prime Minister should initially have acquired Danish citizenship at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112133437	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112133437-2	I think it might be a little too quick to conclude that, in general terms, because I think that the citizenship rules negotiated during the last parliamentary term under a bourgeois government are roughly that I take that position, it means that the government does not take the challenges of parallel societies seriously. It's a little too fucking cheap. Sorry, it's a little too fucking cheap.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112133510	The next brief remark is to Mr. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112133514	Thank you, Minister. I would, of course, have liked the Minister to take a different view on this proposal. But I just want to hear: can the Minister confirm that the vast majority of people who have come to Denmark since the 1970s and have acquired Danish citizenship have actually done well? Because we often talk in the debate about those who have not done well and that we therefore need to tighten the rules. So I just want to hear a simple answer: of all those who have been given citizenship, and especially citizens with a Muslim background, the vast majority of course have done well.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112133558	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112133559	I'm not standing right here with statistics on the platform. But it is true that most people who migrate to Denmark are basically a positive part of our society. However, it also covers the fact that the proportion of immigrants from Brazil and the United States who are doing well is greater than that of Iraq and Morocco who are doing well. So we have special challenges with immigration from the Middle East. When, for example, the Minister of Justice, the Home Secretary and I a few weeks ago... is in consultation to discuss the riots at Motalavej in Korsør, we can see that the authorities' assessment of who is part of the clan conflict at Motalavej in Korsør is that it is mainly Danish citizens who have family roots in e.g. Lebanon. But that does not change the fact that our ability to expel people, if they have acquired Danish citizenship, is close to zero. At any rate, they must have committed really serious crime, there is a danger to the vital interests of the state if they are to be deprived of citizenship, and it is therefore appropriate to discuss where criminals might have been in order to obtain citizenship. Otherwise, we end up in situations in the future where we see similar clan conflicts between people with Danish citizenship that destroy everyday life both for people with Middle Eastern background and for people with Danish background who just want to go to work and live on Motalavej.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112133721	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112133722	Of course, I welcome such a debate. But then I will try to clarify the question, because I did not quite catch the Minister's opinion. Can the Minister confirm that of all the Muslim citizens who have been granted citizenship over the last 50 years, the vast majority have, of course, lived up to that citizenship and done it well?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112133746	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112133746-2	With the reservation that we in Denmark do not register people's religion and that therefore I do not know who are Muslims, we know who are immigrants from countries where the majority of the population professes Islam, and there I do not have statistics, but you can get my best guess, namely that most who have migrated from those countries and who have acquired Danish citizenship are doing well, if you know that they can make themselves understandable in the Danish language, are self-supporting and have not committed serious crime. But the fact that most people are doing well does not mean that we do not have a huge discussion and challenge with an excessive minority of people who are generally immigrants from those countries causing problems in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112133832	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112133835	Thank you so much. I should just like to say very quickly that the reply which the Minister mentioned earlier during the debate on L 73 has only now been received in committee. So we didn't have it yesterday. It was just to make it clear. Now the Minister mentions something that I think is interesting, namely the fact that it should be easier to deprive granted citizenship. Where does Social Democracy feel the limit is? In other words, how serious crime does the Social Democratic Party feel it should have been committed in order to have its granted Danish citizenship withdrawn? In New Citizens we have a clear position on this, but it might be interesting to hear what the Social Democrats and the Minister think about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112133913	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112133916	I think I said it was hard because it's really hard. And when it is difficult, it is because we are bound by some international conventions that say that we cannot deny statelessness and that if we are to deny it, it must be because people have taken a course of action which is detrimental to the vital interests of the state. After all, a step has been taken in relation to foreign fighters, so there are now eight foreign fighters who have been deprived of their Danish nationality. It is then because they have had double citizenship and have been deprived of the Danish nationality and none of them have entered Denmark so far. At least that's where we came a little bit along the way. We have then announced in our legislative programme the next step, which goes on people who have committed gang crime, who have been a threat to the vital interests of the state, and then maybe we can go one step further, and now I understand that the Left is on the way with a resolution on drug crime, and then we will have the discussion again. We are open to all discussions, but it is only with the reservation that if you want to live up to the international commitments that we are part of, it is not only a question of serious crime, but that it should be crime that is a threat to the vital interests of the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112134023	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112134024	In New Citizens we are chosen by the Danes to look after Denmark, so I would really like to follow up on my first question to the Minister by asking whether the Minister believes that it is the Danes' safety and security that are the most important, or whether it is outdated conventions written in a completely different time with a completely different purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112134045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112134046	In fact, I think that in the specific legislation put forward by the government on foreign fighters, and what we have announced about gang crime, we show that, within the framework of the constitution and the conventions that we have signed, we want to take care of this society as well as possible. And I also think that practice shows that it has actually succeeded. Of the eight who have been deprived of citizenship, no one has entered Denmark. They are also being banned from entering the whole Schengen area, so that is actually also a way of looking after Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112134121	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. The next to speak is the rapporteur from the Socialist Group, Mr President. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112134135	In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that high demands should be made on people who wish to become Danish citizens. That is both fair and fair. We are happy to discuss the current conditions for obtaining Danish citizenship, but in the social democracy we will never relax the conditions, rather the opposite. The fact that you have been in Denmark for 10 years does not in our optics give a person the right to receive Danish citizenship, and 10 years' stay in Denmark does not necessarily mean that you have become a Dane of it. If you have almost exclusively values from the Middle East, when men and women are not equal, or if people criticising Islam have to be punished, that the Koran is above the constitution, that Jews are subhumans, that homosexuality is unfavorable, and that apostates have to be killed because they exercise their freedom of belief, then you are not Danish, and then of course you should not have Danish citizenship either. It is absolutely essential for our cohesion and welfare state that Danish citizens in important areas of value are similar; that we are homogeneous in this respect; that we share common fundamental values. Ten years' stay in Denmark should not, of course, give the right to Danish citizenship, one of the best citizenships one can possibly have in the whole world. And, of course, there must be strict requirements to achieve this: the requirement to have behaved in accordance with the law and the fact that one has contributed to the common fund with the tax of one's income and ability to support oneself. People of foreign origin who would like to have Danish citizenship can easily get it, you just have to meet the conditions of Danish requirements, self-reliance and take the citizenship test and pass it. Once they have fulfilled all the conditions, the whole parliament is ready to congratulate them when we in the Parliamentary Hall twice a year grant new Danes their Danish citizenship and not least celebrate them at the constitutional ceremonies with cake and flags. A broad majority of the Danish Parliament's parties and thus a broad majority of the Danish population still want strict requirements for the award of Danish citizenship. This is not being upset today, even if 50,000 citizens, i.e. about 1%. of the population, they want it. In view of these considerations, we in the Socialist Group cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112134337	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left. It's sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112134353	Thank you for the floor. It may not come as a surprise that the Left cannot support this proposal. And we cannot do this because the proposal is in stark contrast to how we in the Left see Danish citizenship, namely as a privilege for which we should work hard, as we should earn it. Nationality is not, and should not be, a right granted per person. automatic, even if you have lived in Denmark for 10 consecutive years. For just the fact that you have lived here for 10 years does not necessarily mean that you are fit to become a Danish citizen. The fact is that today there are people who have lived in Denmark for more than 10 years, but who show a behavior that does not qualify them to become Danes. If this proposal becomes a reality, what I really do not hope it does, then all foreigners, tall and low, from reactionary garageimams to petty criminals to people who may not even be able to speak a single word Danish, with one could get Danish citizenship, only because they have waited for it by staying in Denmark over a longer period of time. Let me give you an example: if this proposal becomes a reality, Jimmi Jimmi will become a Danish citizen. We cannot, of course, support that and therefore we look forward to voting against this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112134544	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party. This is Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112134551	The Danish People's Party cannot support this resolution. I believe that Parliament's Rules of Procedure prevent me from saying what I really think of it, but this proposal is both absurd and irresponsible. It is something that would destroy the country more than it has already been destroyed. It can never be a right to have a Danish citizenship. It's a gift. It's not something you should be able to get automatically. Nor can it be done in Denmark because the Constitution states that it is a political decision whether to have citizenship in Denmark, so we have to vote on it. But getting citizenship in Denmark is equivalent to being incorporated into a family. You are admitted to a family, the Danish family, and there you cannot come from Somalia or Pakistan or England for that matter and say: I am right; now I have been had for 10 years, so now I have the right to do so. That's not how you become a member of a family. You will be because someone wants you to become a member, and it may then be 179 people who are elected at the time. That is why it is a political decision and that is the right way to do it. Then there has been a large number of tightening up of the rules before we even get to the votes, in other words the rules on how to be included in the law on citizenship. When I read this resolution, I will be so proud to be a member of the Danish People's Party, for that is all we have got through since 2002. It was a disaster before 2002, and that is what this resolution is going to roll back to. It was a disaster. We stopped that, and we tightened it up again and again. Now we are in a situation where additional tightening is needed. Therefore, as we discussed before, it is not possible for us to continue to vote in favour of the legislative proposals currently before us. But we are proud that there have been so many sharpenings, because the situation has become much, much better than it was in the past. Just the fact that there are now more from Western countries on the laws than there are from Muslim countries is a huge step forward. After all, some people's access to Denmark has been slowed down. However, as I said, it needs to be tightened up further. So if this proposal were voted through, which fortunately it will not be, because there is no majority in favour of it, it would be tantamount to rolling the entire tight immigration policy from 2002 onwards. It would be a disaster. So, of course, the Danish People's Party votes no, a very big no, to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112134837	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112134846	Thank you. I understand the desire of the many people who have put forward this citizens' proposal, because there are many people today who find that the rules do not make sense, for example. the children and young people who are either born or just raised here in Denmark and for whom it is no longer as easy to obtain citizenship as it used to be. However, although I understand the background to the proposal, we in the Radical Left cannot support it. And that is why I am actually glad that it has been put forward, because it gives me an opportunity to say something: there are sometimes people who try to draw a picture of the radical left being completely on the moon in some of these questions, and that is an image that I do not recognize because I myself am trying to point out what I think is common sense. And to me it is common sense not to have citizenship automatically; to me it is common sense that it is something we should earn that there are requirements to be met. And that is why we cannot support this proposal. At the same time, however, I would like to take the people who have tabled the proposal seriously, and that is why we in the Radical Left would also like to continue to work to make the changes that we believe need to be made so that the rules become more common sense, for example. that it should again be the case that the children born and raised in Denmark should be able to obtain citizenship more easily.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112135025	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112135034	Thank you. Like the previous speakers, I would like to say that citizenship is not, and should not be, something that is granted automatically as a starting point, because you have been in Denmark for a long time. With citizenship there are rights and obligations, and to ensure that we intend to live up to these rights and obligations, it makes sense, in the SF, that some criteria have been laid down for the acquisition of citizenship. Therefore, the SF cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112135115	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are also no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112135127	Thank you. Today is a day of celebration for our democracy. Because when we stand here in the Parliamentary Chamber debating citizenship and citizenship, it is basically always about how the rules can be tightened; how the rules can become even more traps and trip threads that are set up for people who apply for Danish citizenship. Now here we have a proposal which is about how it can be easier to become a Danish citizen, so the mood is quite different, and I can feel that, and I am actually incredibly pleased about that. Of course, it strengthens integration if you as a human being are included as an equal citizen with the same rights and duties as your neighbour, as your colleagues, as your fellow students. They're citizens. Today, there are thousands of citizens who apply for citizenship and who are caught in such a nightmare of documentation requirements and rigid rules. Even people who have lived here in Denmark for several years may experience being rejected in their application to become Danish citizens because they have received a speeding ticket because they have ptsd due to war trauma and therefore cannot participate in Danish education because they have been on cash assistance for a short period or because in their pure youth they have committed a criminal act. This is quite unfair treatment and also contrary to the extension of democratic rights which has taken place gradually over the last 170 years in Denmark. With the 1849 Basic Law, we were given the rule of the people, but only a limited proportion of the population obtained the right to vote and stand for election. Popularly said, the seven f's were excluded from the rangers, folk teams, poor, falses, fools, criminals and strangers. It is true that we have succeeded in extending democracy, for example. When women were given the right to vote and also to stand for election, just as domestics and servants, that is, people's teams, were. Gradually, we have brought the other groups into our democratic community, but we lack the last of the F's: the foreigners, that is, those who come from outside and settle in Denmark for one reason or another. That is why we have also put forward proposals in the Enhedslisten to modernise and relax the approach to Danish citizenship, just as we have proposed that children born in Denmark should also have Danish citizenship; that children who have had their formal years here in Denmark should also have Danish citizenship. I don't think anything else makes sense. Having citizenship, if you were born in this country, makes a big and positive difference to integration, and I think it is only logical that if you were born in Rigshospitalet or another Danish hospital, then you will also automatically become a Danish citizen. The current system is, of course, that we here in the Danish Parliament take a political position on each individual candidate whose name is listed on a bill which will then be adopted here in the Danish Parliament, and this is the exercise we have just been through before this citizens' proposal we are dealing with now. In the Enhedslisten, we have the idea that everyone should be equal before the law, that applicants should know their rights in a transparent process, where reasons are given for refusal and where there is a right of appeal when they have received a refusal, and not as today, when everything is completely unclear. More transparency will strengthen the legal certainty that I have noticed that all of a sudden we are all very concerned about, and I would like that to be the case when we talked about Danish citizenship. Until a change in the constitution can be implemented because that is what it takes to change the way you become a Danish citizen on the island, we would really like in the Enhedslisten that it was through an administrative act, just as it is in many of the countries with which we compare ourselves. However, until it can be implemented, we would like to see an in-depth study of how, within the framework of the present constitution, it is possible to ensure that proceedings in matters of citizenship are conducted more closely in accordance with the principles of administrative law laid down in the administrative law. In addition, we want a real relaxation of the excessively strict and rigid rules that are in order to achieve citizenship. It is simply not right that such a large proportion of the population should live without full civil rights. With that said, we do not, however, support everything in this citizens' proposal, and we therefore expect to vote yellow on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112135636	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112135640	After all, it is wonderful that we have the opportunity to discuss criminal foreigners and citizenship today. I would like to follow up on the question that Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen asked. For the rapporteur said earlier that war criminals should not have Danish citizenship, but the Social Democrat rapporteur mentioned, for example: rapists. Do they need Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112135703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112135705	I would very much like to repeat, because this is how the position of Enhedslisten is reasonably consistent. We think the same thing as we thought when I replied to Mr Tugendhat's question. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, and it is that in Denmark and in a constitutional state it is the case that one should not be punished forever. In other words, once you have endured your sentence, you are no longer a criminal. I fully agree that there should be a waiting period, but I do not think we should tighten up that waiting period. Actually, I think we should soften it up a little bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112135734	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112135735	Thank you. After all, I think that it is very positive when, as a member of parliament, we recognise the views of other parties. I think it was during the opening debate that the Prime Minister acknowledged the story that Pernille Vermund of New Citizens made about this Somali rapist who had spontaneously attacked and raped a Danish girl. So if I understand the rapporteur correctly, the rapporteur believes that this man should also have Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112135804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112135805	I'm afraid that's how it is now, sir. Marcus Knuth, that there are plenty of men with Danish citizenship who rape women, and that is why I am really, really proud that we have now succeeded in creating a consent law that guarantees the rights of all women in rape cases. It will be dealt with first next week, and I look forward to seeing Mr. Marcus Knuth and his colleagues will vote for it if you really care so much about protecting women from rape.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112135830	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112135844	Thank you, President. This bill is miles away from everything we Conservatives are fighting for, so I hardly know where to start. After all, we do not believe that the rules should be relaxed; we believe that we should tighten up in relation to crime. I do not think that is a secret, namely that it is a matter for us Conservatives. However, there are a large number of areas that we would also like to have included in the negotiations that we are now looking forward to entering at the beginning of 2021. It is a question of coming to an interview where you can see whether you have Islamic views and, for example, whether you have Islamic views. supports terrorism, to speak properly Danish and to have been out on the real labour market and not just to have been on early retirement, which can then count as real employment. There are very, very many wishes that we Conservatives have for the negotiations. After all, this proposal is as far away from what you can possibly come. So we are not voting for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112135951	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112140010	Of course, the award of the finest gift should not be automatized, because it is a gift that Denmark can provide as proposed in this proposal. To introduce that you can automatically acquire citizenship after 10 years in Denmark will be devastating for Denmark. There are quite a lot of things in this proposal that are both naive and fact-resistant. The proposal says, among other things, that refugees and immigrants contribute in exactly the same way as Danes. 34 per cent of all cash benefit recipients in Denmark have a non-Western background. So they are heavily over-represented among people on cash benefits. In fact, figures from the Ministry of Finance show that of generation 2018, each person of non-Western origin is expected to represent an average net cost of DKK 31,000. per Years of life. In 2008, Denmark's Statistics produced a projection that showed that we in Denmark could expect 340.518 non-western immigrants by 2050, but we have already surpassed that figure now. This is crazy. Mosques are shooting up in several cities, the women's oppressive Muslim scarf thrives in institutions and in schools and public workplaces, halal meat and gender-separated swimming are easily accepted, the immigrant gangs are shooting at the open street. Terror protection has become today's architecture. Police, rescue and home helpers meet with violence and vandalism in foreign-heavy residential areas, and crime by people with Middle Eastern, foreign, or Arabic looks is daily literature in the local media. Male non-western descendants are more than twice as criminal as Danish men. 39% by non-Western descendants want to impose restrictions on newspapers to protect people's religion. Freedom of speech is under massive pressure. In New Citizens we do not believe that Danish citizenship should be given to immigrants and descendants from Muslim countries, where we have statistical evidence that immigrants and their descendants commit crime much more often than Danes when they come here. You should not be able to withdraw your Danish citizenship from a vending machine. It's the finest gift Denmark can give, and that's why New Citizens, of course, are voting against this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112140249	Thank you to the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112140257	Thank you for the floor. One of the most illegitimate political decisions taken in Denmark, at least after the Second World War, is the adoption of the Aliens Act in 1983. It was, by all accounts, something like a place between 65 and 70%. of the population opposed, but the law was penetrated anyway. That law was given the consequence of a long, long series of social changes which no one wants or which there are at least very, very few people in Denmark who want to see, and certainly not a majority. In other words, one can say that this philosophy of a legal requirement is one of the most damaging decisions taken in this Chamber. This proposal is worse. It is more harmful than the 1983 Alien Act if it is adopted, because the principle of having a legal right to citizenship is a completely wrong principle. The right principle is, of course, what we have in the Basic Law of 1849 and which has been brought forward through the following constitutions to the one we received in 1953, namely that it is a political question who should be Danish citizens. I think it was Mrs Krarup who said that the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament do not allow her to express her very sincere opinion on the draft law. We get a recommendation from our officials working in our secretariat in the Liberal Alliance, where resolutions and legislative proposals are examined, and the Rules of Procedure do not allow me to say what accompanying remarks our case officer had written here, so I will not do that. I will confine myself to saying that we cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112140508	Thank you to the rapporteur for correctly mastering the language from the platform. It's appreciated. The next person to speak is Mr. Sikandar Siddique, and it's outside the groups. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112140521	This proposal is about diversity, which is why I would like to start by congratulating Denmark, because today the new high school songbook is published with a song about the Ramadan written by Isam B and other strong souls. It is a step in the right direction towards a more diverse Denmark. I am very sorry that no party will support this citizens' proposal, but I can tell you that the Greens support the citizens' proposal. Last time I stood here it was at the opening debate that I spoke about the democratic apartheid that is in Denmark and about the over half a million citizens who do not have citizenship and therefore cannot participate in our democracy, and about the 67,000 descendants who have been born and raised in the country but do not have citizenship for the sole reason that their parents do not have it. Now we are faced with a solution to this problem, and it even comes in the form of a citizens' proposal, and I am very pleased about that, because it shows that the people think it is important not to keep citizens outside the Community and that only the Folketing lags behind. In the debate on immigrants and descendants, the focal point has long been the importance of integration and contributing to Danish society. With this proposal, however, we are giving the opportunity to contribute to society. The people we are talking about here are people who speak Danish, they are people who pay taxes, and they have Denmark as their home, so why can we not let them right into the heart of democracy? Who really benefits from this exclusion? Staying without citizenship or permanent residence permits gives an unstable and uncertain existence. Our fellow citizens need security in order to be able to participate fully in our society, and the Free Greens want to give them that security. I want us, as the guardians of democracy, to embrace our fellow citizens and not to reject them. We must not forget that this has not always been the state we have been in. As the citizens' proposal illustrates, it is the right turn of Danish politics over the last 20 years that has brought us into this situation. In 2002 it was possible for citizens who had lived in the country for a total of 10 years to acquire Danish citizenship after the age of 18, and year after year the rules on residence have been tightened to a level where it is almost easier to obtain citizenship than permanent residence permits. After all, we have implemented so much aggressive legislation against immigrants and descendants that we have forgotten that there was a time when we saw immigration as something that was beneficial and not as a burden and where we knew that the best way to integrate people was not to demonise them and keep them out, but to include them. In Free Greens, we believe that if you were born in Denmark, grew up in Denmark or live your life in Denmark, you are Danish. Everyone born in Denmark by legally resident parents must have Danish citizenship, and we go so far as to say that everyone not born in Denmark must be granted citizenship after 7 years of legal residence in Denmark. It also follows that things which Danes with citizenship benefit from e.g. The fact that they receive public services, vote, stand for election must also apply to this particular group of citizens; they must also have these rights. This proposal is a step in the right direction, although there is a long way to go. I hope that we can vote through it and show the entire Danish people that we stand with them and that everyone should have the opportunity to be part of our democratic community. Free Greens support the citizens' proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112140946	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first one's for sir. Morten Dahlin from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112140952	Thank you. I note that the rapporteur once again uses this expression of democratic apartheid. When the rapporteur compares Denmark, which is one of the world's best, most free, most equal societies, with the apartheid regime, which was a racist, oppressive, violent dictatorship, it prompts me to ask the rapporteur: has the rapporteur no shame in life?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112141036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112141039	Then maybe I should try to return it. So, in terms of gender equality, we have no impressive position. The UN has been out criticizing us, the Court of Human Rights has been out criticizing us, NGOs, human rights organisations, more and more professionals and experts have been out criticizing especially the policy that the Left has pursued over the past many years together with the Danish People's Party. Indeed, right now we have a commission in which the Left's second official is being examined in relation to an illegal instruction. So the rapporteur is not ashamed of this situation? I believe that this is completely a majority power tyranny, that is, that there are citizens out there who want to get deep into society, right into the heart of democracy, and that they should not be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112141146	Sir. Morten Dahlin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112141147	I note that the rapporteur did not answer my question. Now that the rapporteur is busy talking from the platform about how bad a country Denmark is, particularly in terms of equality, I would like to ask the rapporteur: which country would the rapporteur rather have the rapporteur's daughter grew up in than Denmark? So, which country is further advanced in terms of equality, democracy and equality than Denmark? Which country is it that the rapporteur thinks we should copy in order to create a better future for the rapporteur's daughter?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112141226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112141227	So, in terms of gender equality, we could learn a lot from Sweden, we could learn a lot from Finland, we could learn a lot from our neighbouring countries. And then I just think that there is a fundamental difference in the way we look at it. I want my country, Denmark, which is one of the world's best countries, to be even better. I do not look down and compare us with those countries which are disadvantaged in terms of equality, in terms of diversity. No, it is about how we, as a society, are getting better, better and even better, and that is why I believe that the premise for the issue is such a little loser.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112141311	The next brief remark is to Mr. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112141315	Thank you. I would say that I am almost speechless when I hear Free Green speech. So, you're from the party alternative, where I have a little impression that you were sitting in a circle and braided toes talking about love and maybe smoking a little peace pipe. At the first meeting of the Free Greens, there were two ranks. There was talk of frontal attacks on Danish companies and apartheid. It was all very violent and very militant. I was almost thinking about the Black Panthers in the United States when I first saw that meeting there. But even with that logic: How can you stand on the platform and say that you want to make Denmark better by granting Danish citizenship to rapists and hard-boiled criminals? I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112141400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112141401	Of course, I have great respect for the fact that the rapporteur does not understand this, because the whole purpose of democracy is, of course, to allow us to disagree and still conduct a political debate in a sober and proper manner. And, of course, it is the majority who decides which direction to legislate in. So I fully understand that the rapporteur cannot understand the logic. But it is now the case that there are, I think, 67,000 young boys and girls born and raised here who do not have citizenship. They work here, they pay taxes here, their lives are here, all their life experiences are here, but we have deprived them of the most important right, the very fact of voting in a parliamentary election and of running for a parliamentary election, that is, the most basic and most important right, so that you can determine your children's future and your own future and what the country you live in should look like. We have deprived a lot of citizens who have been born and raised here. We want to change that, of course we want to change it in the Free Greens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112141510	Sir. Marcus Knuth for his second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112141512	Thank you. If people, as the rapporteur says, are to have Danish citizenship just by having been in Denmark for 10 years, they will de facto give Danish citizenship to people who have committed rape and people who have very, very serious crimes. Can the rapporteur not explain to me how this makes Denmark a better place? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112141531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112141533	I asked the Minister before he could confirm that the vast majority of citizens who have been granted citizenship have actually done well and lived up to citizenship. What I think the problem is when we talk about citizenship in the debate in here is that we are trying to make legislation on the basis of the few who do it badly. Why do we not focus on the many, many citizens who have proved to be of benefit to Danish society? Let us, however, legislate according to them and then act hard on those who are not doing well.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112141611	The next brief remark is from Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112141614	I used to compare the Danish nation to a family where you take up new members by marriage, or by having children. When I hear the rapporteur talking about the Danish area, it sounds as if there is talk of an international railway station where people rush around in different directions without having any community. Will the rapporteur not recognise or admit that there is a need for common values, common languages, common history, common tradition, so that we can stick together in a nation and thus give each other the great freedom that we have in Denmark? And does the rapporteur not think that there is a very great risk that this community will be blown up to a thousand pieces if one behaves like an international railway station, where everyone can come and buy a ticket and then roam around there, but where one might have completely opposite values and one wants to organize society one way or another in another way, and where one wants a rule of law and the other wants to stone women or cut the throats of people showing Mohammed drawings? Does the rapporteur understand the need for a prior Community before we can have a democratic free society?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112141733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112141734	It is crucial for the Free Greens that our legislation is based solely on the Constitution. And the values on which we must build our society must, of course, be based on our democratic values. I hope, of course, that we all agree on this. I would like to start by saying that. However, I would also like to say to Mrs Krarup that I have Danish citizenship, as does the rapporteur, and that is why we can sit in here, but I am sure that Mrs Marie Krarup is not part of the culture on Nørrebro, where I come from, and we certainly look very, very differently at many things. But that is why we are, what can be said, part of the family that Mrs Krarup was talking about. That's where we disagree. But there must of course be room for this in a democracy. That is what my appeal always goes on when I stand up here and say: there is therefore a group of citizens out there who do not feel represented who feel discriminated against, who feel that they are second-class citizens. That view must also be put forward here without us having to talk about that we are not a family, or talk about that we cannot together, because of course we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112141851	Thank you. Mrs Krarup for her second brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112141853	If you let god and every man into your family, you break up the family. You can't let all the people into a football game either. There will be some who play the wrong way and just go to kick at the opponents' knees and smash their legs so they can't play. Democracy is that we all respect each other and respect some rules because we think it is right. You cannot know this with people who come from cultures, where you have constructed yourself in a completely different way, and where you may even have a religion that goes fundamentally against creating a democracy. So to say that you should automatically be able to obtain citizenship because you have been on Danish soil for 10 years is glaringly irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112141937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112141937-2	If we are to put an end to the so-called parallel societies and to these attitudes that do not run away with our democracy, I think it is really about involving people. By giving them a Danish citizenship, we involve people. I know it myself because of my own background. The more you are allowed to be involved, the more it gives such a boost into society, to contribute. It gives him a sense of community. That is also what research in this field says. That's why, Mrs. Marie Krarup, I think we're just looking at it differently. Where Mrs Marie Krarup sees citizenship as something to earn, the Free Green sees it as a declaration of confidence we give to our newly arrived citizens who have been here for 7 years or now with this proposal for 10 years and say: "Go ahead, come in when you live here, your children live here, and you pay taxes etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112142038	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112142042	Thank you to the rapporteur. I also take a bit of pride in the word apartheid used on something that is going on in Denmark. Normally, I do not think it is appropriate to use people's background when debating, but I know that the rapporteur also has roots in Pakistan and is very concerned about it. I think this is quite natural, I myself have roots in Turkey, and it also means a lot to me. And you can google the rapporteur on Pakistan's national day, and the Kashmir conflict I know fills something for the rapporteur. Now that the rapporteur uses the concept of apartheid, will the rapporteur also use it to refer to the way in which Christians are treated in Pakistan, or is that just what the rapporteur thinks is going on in Denmark? I really think it is very relevant when you use such a harsh word to know whether it is something you think is only going on here or whether you dare to say that it is going on in some parts of the Middle East. In my head it only takes place in the Middle East and not in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112142125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112142126	Now I usually have the principle that I am not going to answer such a question precisely because the built-in premise is that now I have to prove that I am good enough and that I am democratic enough. But because it's Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, whom I have known for many years, I know that this is not a bad thing and, of course, I would like to answer the question. Regardless of which regime and which country oppresses a minority, the position of the Free Greens is quite clear: there should of course be no room for that. That Christians are treated badly in a country or that Muslims are treated badly in a country or that other minorities, for example. sexual minorities, badly treated, of course, will be opposed by the Free Greens. So the answer to the question is yes. If there are some places where some minorities are badly treated, then of course the Free Greens will distance themselves from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112142222	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112142224	Thank you. I'm glad. And I am glad that the rapporteur knows very well that this was not meant to be a bad thing. I really wanted to ask you something else that the rapporteur started by addressing. On the same day that Shu-bi-dua gets out of the Højskole songbook, Isam B then comes in, and then a left-wing party says it is an expression of enormous diversity. I mean, we're talking about Isam B, who likes burkas and who doesn't want to perform with women wearing short sleeves and who send gifts to a terrorist suspect in prison and say, just hang in there. Does the rapporteur think that the best thing to do in immigrant communities as an expression of diversity is simply Isam B?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112142252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112142253	Frankly, I do not know about Isam B's personal views, and this is actually the first time I have heard what the rapporteur has just said. It basically didn't go on the singer, it went on the song, so the fact that we got a ramadansong into the Højskole songbook, because there are a lot of Muslims, I think, who live in Denmark, and many of them celebrate Ramadan. Ramadan is part of Copenhagen, which is why I think it is an expression of diversity. And then I don't have to be smart about the opinions of the singer Isam B. That is not what I was talking about either.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112142334	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112142338	Thank you so much. It is absolutely grotesque that the Danish high school song book gives you a ramadansong, and that the Danish song of Shu-bi-dua goes out. But unfortunately it is a sign of the cultural radical flow that has unfortunately gone through Denmark for many years, the grotesque self-hate on the part of some people, where in some attempt to play cultural fusion and this what to say is the quest for everything to be equal, it simply destroys Danish culture in that way. This is completely insane. But what I really want to ask the rapporteur is that, when the rapporteur speaks so much about apartheid, I think it is a little strange. The rapporteur has previously been out to say a lot about Black Lives mats in Denmark and supported up etc., but Black Lives mats in Denmark are precisely in favour of segregation and have advocated that some of these demonstrations should be separated into races. How is it that the rapporteur supports this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112142443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112142445	First to the first part in relation to equality and the Højskole songbook: Culture is dynamic, and Denmark looks like this today, and Denmark looked different in 1970 when my parents came here, and 30 years back and 100 years back Denmark looked different. To try to stop this dynamic development is to fight against the law of nature. Culture has always been and will always be dynamic. That's the way it is. It's just a fact. Compared to Black Lives mats: Yes, I support Black Lives mats, and Black Lives mats do not support segregation. They have said, as I understand it, that during some demonstrations they can then agree or disagree with that, and if I personally had to hold a demonstration myself, I would not make a distinction in colors or backgrounds I would like those who have been subjected to racism to take the lead. You may then agree or disagree with that, but I know that Black lives mats do not support segregation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112142554	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112142555	Well, you do, if you separate people on the basis of skin color, and it's funny, it's often the kind of thing that the left is a little busy with, and the rest of us really don't care about skin color. But what I really want to ask the rapporteur is that the rapporteur is now saying this: culture is something dynamic. Yes, and there is therefore some basic Danish culture, and it must remain unchanged. Then we can agree that there are some other things, but then it has to be for the better and not for the worse, and with this Højskole songbook, it's by God for the worse that you get a ramadansong in. It doesn't belong there at all. But I would actually like to hear the rapporteur about something, because in Denmark we basically have this thing about giving before you can enjoy. Why, then, does the rapporteur think that one has just the right to get on one's slippery face and get Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112142640	Before giving the rapporteur the floor, I would like to remind you of the language used in this House in calling on the higher powers in the way that the rapporteur has the habit of getting into his wording. So please be aware of it. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112142655	Thank you. I am and Free Greens are happy that Isam B's ramadansang is now part of the Højskole songbook. I don't think we're gonna agree whether it was a good idea or not. So I'm thinking that we're gonna stop here. As far as citizenship is concerned, I have said that there is just a fundamental difference between what a majority in the Danish Parliament thinks it should of course be something that should be earned and that we should rather keep people out, and I heard Mrs Mette Thiesen say that if it were up to her, she would not have people with a Muslim background or immigrants and descendants from Muslim countries having a passport at all. I think that is simply out of the question. The thing about going in and making a difference between people, I think, is exactly against what the people who have built up this Danish society have worked for. I think it's unspeakable that you make a difference. I believe that it is contrary to the Constitution that one wants to go in and make a difference. So that's where I think we're just looking at it differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112142803	The next brief remark is to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112142806	I have one question for Mr. Sikandar Siddique. Most people in this society, if not all, believe that every nation is a product of the people who are in the nation. In other words, some people create certain countries and other people create other countries, in other words, communities are a product of the people who are in the communities. This is also true in Denmark, and if one imagined that a very large contingent of people came into Denmark and got citizenship and voting rights, and that these people wanted something quite different with this country than what has been created now, then we will also be another country. - Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Sikandar Siddique, for example. the many people from the Middle Eastern world who want to live in Denmark should be allowed to create the society they want here in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112142904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112142905	So, as far as the many people from Middle Eastern countries are concerned, I do not know what society they want to create. I do not know what the questioner is asking. I can then tell you what the many people I know from the Middle East want to create. Yes, they want to create a life for their children, they want to get a job, they don't want to have to send 60%. more applications to be considered for a job, they do not want to be demonised in the media, they want to contribute to society, they want to shape society so that their children and grandchildren can live in peace and harmony, and it is only those that I can take as my starting point. I do not know what kind of people the questioner is asking, and I do not know which premise is at the root of that question. But the vast majority of people, those of our parents who came here, have done well, they are doing well, girls with a different ethnic background, women with a different ethnic background are rushing forward on education, and that is what we need to focus on. Then I fully agree that the challenges that exist must, of course, be resolved, and the Greens would like to take part in that. But we must not demonise the vast majority because there is a small minority that is not doing well.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112143026	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112143032	If, for example, we are going to do something like this... Looking at the country that Mr. Sikandar Siddique's parents came from Pakistan, as Mr. Sikandar Siddique, I believe, still has a loving relationship with, so we can look at what kind of country they have created in Pakistan and what kind of country the people who live in Pakistan want to live in and have created for themselves. It is not because of the water down there, it is not because of the air down there that the country has become that way, it is because of the people who inhabit the country that the country has become that way. Is Pakistan a good country to be in, according to the Free Greens?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112143104	My country, Denmark, is the best country in the world, if you ask me. I love Denmark, it's from here, my world goes, this is where I get up and contribute, this is where I come on Parliament's platform and get criticized for my opinions, this is where I try to participate. That's what I want to deal with. There are very many countries in the world who, for all kinds of reasons, have all sorts of reasons, because I do not recognise the premise that it is the people alone who do it, it is all kinds of causes, it is poverty, it is wars, and it is probably also people who are not doing it well. My country, Denmark, is the best country. Do I have a loving relationship with Pakistan? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I have roots in that country, and the older I get, the more interested I naturally become in my background and in my roots etc. etc. But of course Denmark is a pioneer country when it comes to welfare, society, organisation, structure, development etc. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112143202	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112143231	The debate is open, and we shall first give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112143245	Thank you for the floor. With this motion for a resolution, the Conservative People's Party proposes to introduce stricter requirements for Danish knowledge in the award of citizenship, so that all those seeking Danish citizenship must pass the test in Danish 3. The proposal is similar to a proposal made by the Conservatives in the last session, and I understand, as in the last proposal, that what the proposers want is to abolish the exception that an applicant can be admitted to a Danish 2 test bill instead of in Danish 3 if the applicant meets a stricter self-support requirement for 9 years of self-reliance; that is what we know as the so-called hairdresser's rule. The government cannot support this resolution. I agree entirely with the authors that if you want to become a Danish citizen, you have to be able to speak Danish. I think that is quite natural and a way of showing that you want the society and the people who live here. It is also true that the vast majority of applicants for citizenship have passed a test that is at least at the level of test in Danish 3 when they are admitted to a bill. If you look at the last two drafts, which were tabled in October last year and here before the summer holidays, then in the vicinity of 4,400 people who met the general requirement for Danish knowledge, that is, passed the test in Danish 3, and then there were 450 people who were admitted on the basis of passed test in Danish 2. The fact that there are 450 people admitted on the basis of exams in Danish 2 is not the same as saying that we take it lightly on the award of Danish citizenship on the contrary. In addition to being able to speak Danish one can also show that one wants Denmark, by being in long-term employment. I therefore think it makes sense that a different language requirement is made for those who have a very stable link with the labour market. It can, for example, be done. be the hairdresser who has worked for at least the last nine years and therefore fulfils the stricter self-support requirement but has not passed the test in Danish 3, even though he is doing his hairdresser's job well and has daily contact with the customers in the store. It is about the fact that there are some people out there who get up every morning, go to work and contribute to society and show the ability and willingness to become part of society. Having said that, I am, of course, always ready to discuss whether the cut is right or whether there is a need or a desire for adjustments. And that is why, as I have said earlier today, I have also announced a call for the parties of the Danish Parliament to negotiate the birthright circular. Here, too, the Conservatives are always welcome to raise their wishes, but our starting point from the government will be that we think the current hairdresser rule is good.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112143527	Thank you. Someone just made a comment, and that's Mr. Knox. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112143536	Thank you, Minister. The reason we are taking this again is because the Minister has signalled that he would call for negotiations. He could have done that back in the spring, so we would have had some new rules in place today, but the minister still hasn't called us in. Now I am so glad that hopefully this will happen at the beginning of 2021. But that does mean we have to ask this question again. What the Minister says about association with the labour market for many years is fine, but we do have a Denmark where there are large parallel societies, where you can live your everyday life and even go to work in a parallel society where Danish is simply not spoken, and then still away with this gentle special rule can get Danish citizenship without being able to speak well enough Danish, as you should otherwise at Danish test 3. The Minister recognizes that there are pockets in Denmark, for example. speaks so much Arabic that the Danish is virtually not being used?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112143632	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112143633	I fully recognise that there are pockets in Denmark where Arabic is spoken and no one understands Danish. However, the 450 people who have been on the last two legislative proposals, who have come to the bill by having passed Danish examination 2 and had a long-term link with the labour market, are not those who are our challenge, they are not the ones who are the problem in Denmark. Danish Examination 2 corresponds to everyday language. Danish exam 3 is designed for people who have taken a longer education in their country of origin, and it is also a Danish test which is organized after, for example, a Danish test. can go further on some other education in Denmark. It's fine, and 90 percent. of those who are on our bill on citizenship notice have taken Danish exam 3. But I think it is quite fair that we also say that there is an exception if you meet all the other conditions of crime and everything else. If you can't get to that level, for example. in writing, perhaps because you have grown up in an illiterate environment in your home country, you can work hard at Danish exam 2 and you can work hard at it on the Danish labour market. In fact, I think that is an excellent little cat prick in the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112143739	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112143740	I don't think there should be that cat door. If it is the case that you have grown up in a country where you are illiterate, it may be Afghanistan, and you come to Denmark, and you simply cannot live up to the rules we have set for how good Danish you must be able to speak to get Danish citizenship, isn't the answer just that you do not get Danish citizenship? That's all it is. Why does the Minister want to make concessions for people who do not comply with the rules? If you place the bar firmly on Danish sample 3, then there is some expectation of who will be able to live up to it, and if you cannot, you just don't get citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112143814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112143815	Well, I agree that we have to set the rules according to what we think is reasonable, and then people have to live up to it. We should not set the rules according to what we think people can live up to, because then they will be put far too low. But people who speak Danish and have passed the Danish test 2 can speak ordinary everyday language. It is true that they may not be able to write a sentence and put the decimal right, but they can be common everyday language, they can act orally in Danish society and understand what it is in the newspaper and what people say to each other on the street, and they can make themselves understandable. I think that is an excellent exception if, on the other hand, they have worked nine years firmly and were self-sufficient.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112143851	Thank you. Then I won't have any more standing. We are grateful to the Minister and we are embarking on the rapporteur's line. The first is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112143907	Thank you. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that it is absolutely crucial that new Danish citizens speak, write and understand Danish. This will not only benefit the individual new citizen, but also benefit Danish society in the broad sense. New citizens will be better placed to have a good relationship with colleagues, neighbours and friends in their new lives in Denmark, but of course the language cannot do so alone. New Danish citizens must, of course, also take our values to heart and renounce problematic values from their home countries, which collide with our Danish democratic values. We would like to thank the Conservatives for presenting this motion for a resolution. In the Social Democratic Party we would very much like to see whether the conditions to be met by those seeking to become Danish citizens should be tightened up. We look forward to a further discussion of this when the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration invites negotiations to take place on the other side of New Year. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that high demands must be made on people who wish to become Danish citizens, and we look forward, as I have said, to a discussion on further tightening up with the parties of the Folketing on the conditions for obtaining Danish citizenship. Making high demands on people in all sorts of different contexts bears witness to respect for the individual, not to make demands on humans, on the other hand, bears witness to disrespect. Furthermore, it is entirely in line with our social democratic view of human beings to make high demands on our fellow human beings. As Social Democrats, we pay tribute to industrious and hard-working people and we do not like the lack of a desire to contribute to the community. Our community is totally dependent on all healthy and bodied contributing and taking part in the community. Social democracy cannot support the motion for a resolution, but we look forward, as I said, to having a discussion on the other side of New Year on a possible tightening up of the conditions for obtaining Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112144048	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Morten Dahlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112144057	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Conservative People's Party for having retabled this motion for a resolution. In fact, I am a little sad that we have to stand on the platform today, and it is not just because it is loud outside. This is because we have discussed this motion for a resolution once this year, and in this respect all the blue parties called on the Minister to call for negotiations and discussions on new rules of citizenship. But the Minister has chosen not to do so, and as a consequence, I sense, we are here today. Let me therefore begin by stating, as I did last time, that it is a prerequisite for becoming an integral part of Danish society that one can speak and understand Danish. Fortunately, more and more people here in the Danish Parliament realize that. Since there is now a broad consensus in here that the Danish language is a prerequisite for becoming Danish, then the logical conclusion must also be that one must be able to speak Danish to become a Danish citizen. That is why, in 2018, under the Left-led government, we also tightened the rules on language requirements, because it is important that the rules are strict. Since then, the starting point has been that you had to pass a test in Danish 3 to get this red beet passport down on the municipality. There is, however, an exception. If you meet certain strict requirements for self-reliance, i.e. that you meet all the other requirements and meet some special requirements in relation to self-reliance, then you can obtain Danish citizenship by passing a test corresponding to Danish 2. This is the opportunity that the Conservative People's Party is proposing to abolish. We really welcome this discussion. We do this because we have observed that there are some things in our language requirements that are not necessarily very closely linked. On the one hand, it is certain that citizenship has been granted to some people who do not master the Danish language well enough. That's a big problem. As I said before, being able to speak Danish is a prerequisite for becoming an integral part of the Danish people. On the other hand, we also experience some absurd cases where there are people who have taken Denmark to heart, who speak better Danish than most of us in here, and who have written more books in Danish that can be rejected. That is why we are open to the need for these rules to be adjusted. But I don't have a fix and a done solution here today. I didn't last time. That is why I would have liked to have had these negotiations. Nor am I sure that this proposal contains the right balance sheets. It's also because we're worried about whether by the back door you sneak some kind of education snobbery into our native system with this proposal, if we just follow it blindly. We in the Left are very much opposed to education snobbery. We do not believe that an American skilled worker is in a worse position to become a Dane than an academic Pakistani, perhaps even on the contrary. That is why I very much hope that the outcome of this discussion will be that the Minister gets his act together and calls for the negotiations he has promised so that we can have a look at whether these rules can be tightened up in a better way. In fact, we are prepared to do so in the Left. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112144416	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. This is Mrs. Marie Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112144424	In the Danish People's Party we would very much like to tighten up the requirements for citizenship. We have always had the policy of tightening up the circular, which is behind which people come to the law as much as possible, although we know very well that it takes a very long time for us to arrive at what is ideal, namely that only a certain number of citizenships are given per year and that it is first and foremost given to people who marry Danes and then voted individually on those who have to have citizenship. Knowing that it may be difficult to get a majority for that, we are then, at the same time as we have had it as the end goal or dream of what the system of citizenship should be like, going to tighten up the circular as much as possible. And that has also been very successful. Fortunately, the number of people who acquire Danish citizenship has been reduced compared to what it was before 2002, and it has also been turned on to how much more can be done. You can do much more Danish, and there are more people who are excluded from citizenship. So that's good, but there are definitely things in the circular that can be sharpened, and we agree with Conservatives that this is one of the things you can do. I think it is almost at the limit of the comic that the Conservatives have for so many years nevertheless voted in favour of the legislative proposals that are being put forward, but which have then been opposed. I understand from the rapporteur today that we have decided to vote yellow after all, and that is a great step forward from the past, so that we do not just vote green for something that we really disagree with. This is a fine form of tightening up which we would very much like to support. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112144623	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112144625	I have to respond to that criticism of the Conservative People's Party because, as I remember, the current rules are some that were adopted by the then VLAK government, the Social Democracy and the Danish People's Party. Why did the Danish People's Party participate in adopting the rules if you think they were completely on the moon. After all, it is no secret that the Conservatives were also fighting for far stricter rules in the negotiations. Why, then, did you join when you are so critical as the Danish People's Party is?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112144700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112144701	That is what I used the first part of my rapporteur's speech to try to explain, but clearly I have not done enough. It is because we have a desire that there should be a maximum of 1,000 citizenships per year, that they should be given to people who marry Danish citizens and that each individual should be voted on in this Chamber. It's a wish we have. That's the way it should be. We do not have 90 mandates, and that is why we need to work on what is possible, and what is possible is to tighten up the circular on who is included in the law. We have worked hard on this, and it has largely succeeded in a number of respects. Sometimes we have also had to vote in favour of the legislative proposals to show that we were satisfied that they had been tightened up, but we have not been satisfied with the fact that it has not been tightened up enough. So it's a little similar to some who want to sail west, and then it's completely impossible because of the storm; then it's okay that you might have to sail north for a period, and then we cross west again later when possible. It is clearly better than either sinking or giving up the trip.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112144809	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112144810	I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for fighting for stricter rules at the time of the negotiations. So did Conservatives, and of course you can agree to an agreement where you do not get all your wishes fulfilled. Conservatives are criticised for being part of an agreement or voting for things, but the Danish People's Party has also been in the same agreement. So it's just a reminder.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112144836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112144836-2	As I said, we have been in the agreement because it is absolutely better than nothing. It's far, far better, but it's just still a long way from the goal that we want to achieve. However, we have been so honest that only a few times have we felt obliged to vote in favour of the proposals on citizenship when we have achieved some results in the negotiations. After all, we have gone back very quickly to saying that far too many people from the Muslim world are still away on the legislative proposals for us to vote 'yes'. Because we will still risk changing Denmark forever by voting in favour of those people.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112144912	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Lotte Rod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112144918	Thank you. One must be able to speak Danish to become a Danish citizen. I agree with that, but what exactly are the Conservatives proposing here? Today, it is the case that people who are in work are rewarded, support themselves, contribute to society, and I think that is actually a very good principle, and that is why I think it makes good sense that there is a carrot in relation to being in work. That is why I am against the Conservatives wanting to remove the carrot, and I do not really understand that it can be conservative politics either.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112144955	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112144956	But then I would just like to ask the rapporteur very briefly: does the rapporteur recognise that there are parallel societies out there where you can live your whole life, go to work even, and do not speak Danish or therefore areas where the primary language is Arabic or Pakistani or another foreign language? Does the rapporteur accept this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112145015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112145016	But that's not what we're talking about. We talk about here that it is people who are in work and master Danish at Danish 2 level.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112145026	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112145027	In other words, the rapporteur fully agrees that one can only take Danish exam 2 because one lives in a parallel society where only Arabic is spoken and therefore is not good enough to take Danish exam 3 and therefore one must nevertheless have Danish citizenship, even if one does not master the Danish language.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112145045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112145046	In other words, the Conservative rapporteur speaks as if being able to speak Danish at Danish level 2 is not being able to speak Danish. I think the Minister actually explained very well what Danish 2 is covering. So maybe we should use this debate for the questioner to go home and look at what you actually can and what you need to be able to speak Danish at Danish level 2.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112145109	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur and we will move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Valentina Berthelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112145117	Thank you. I understand that this resolution has been tabled before by the Conservatives. As a new rapporteur, it was, of course, tempting simply to print the rapporteur's speech from the last reading and read it aloud, but I will not do that anyway. In the SF we agree that it is crucial for integration that you can speak the Danish language and that it is essential to be able to work in the Danish labour market, but I attached myself to a rather interesting word that came from the rapporteur from the Left. Morten Dahlin. He said that he could be worried about education snobbery, and I think that was in fact an extremely good and profound consideration, because there has been such a small discussion of what Danish 3 actually corresponds to. I'm sure we can discuss that for a while. But, for example, if you do... According to the opinion of the chairman of the Danish Language Centres that this is equivalent, he says that it is actually addressed to people who have a 12-year upper secondary school background behind them and who come to Denmark to move into the a little more highly educated labour market. The authors also state that, in some cases, it is only possible to pass Danish examination 2, which is aimed at something a little different; it gives competence to take up employment if you have not received cash benefits for a large part of the period. And there I think that the term 'educational snobbery' and that it could be worried if we adopted this proposal are in fact incredibly appropriate. It is not the case that we in the SF believe that one form of Danish should be able to do so and that it is highly educated Danish, in order to be functional on the Danish labour market, and therefore again we cannot support the Conservatives' proposals. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112145338	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. I see no one from the Enhedslisten, and then we go to the New Citizens' rapporteur, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go. Mrs. Mette Thiesen!
ParlaMint-DK_20201112145423	Thanks, and I'm sorry. I was thinking that it was still the draft law, but it is, of course, the resolution we are discussing now. Of course you have to speak a proper Danish if you want Danish citizenship, but this is another minor adjustment of a basically completely hopeless approach to having the finest gift that Denmark can give, namely Danish citizenship. In wildness, politicians have for decades thrown themselves around with Danish citizenship to people who should never have had it. This proposal will not change it, even though it is a tiny step in the right direction. But this superliner, which the area of citizenship is, should not just have changed the course a tiny bit; it should be turned away from the iceberg. Politicians need to stop throwing citizenship around with laxity. We must stop the granting of citizenship to people who come from Muslim countries who we know are over-represented in crime statistics when they come here. In New Citizens we want to solve the issue of foreigners from scratch. This also includes stopping politicians' laxity with Danish citizenship and ensuring the free and secure society that generations before us have built up. New citizens want that. Of course, we support this proposal and, moreover, call on the Danish Parliament to tighten up the rules of nationality further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112145612	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112145618	Thank you. We want people who have lived in Denmark and are associated with Denmark to be allowed to have citizenship if they consider themselves Danes. Grundtvig put it better than us when he said: "To a people they all hear/like themselves count on it." The problem is that we cannot go into people's heads and check whether they count themselves as part of the Danish nation, and therefore we have all sorts of things to try and compensate for the fact that we cannot see into their brains. Therefore we try to look at some other things: If they have shown a willingness to learn the Danish language, they have shown a willingness to be part of Danish society, they have shown a willingness to feed themselves in Danish society etc. etc.? But it is all to try to find out whether they actually want to be Danish, whether they are solidarity with Danish society, and whether they feel themselves in the same boat as us other Danes. This proposal that it should not be possible to acquire Danish citizenship, if one can only master Danish at Danish 2 level, even if one has made all sorts of other efforts to be a contributing part of Danish society, we cannot support it. We do not believe that this is measured by whether one considers oneself to be part of the Danish nation, whether one masters written Danish at a secondary level. In fact, we believe and believe that if you have made an effort in Danish society to be a contributing part of Danish society and you can communicate in Danish and understand Danish and read Danish and also write Danish, but not at a high school level, there is an opportunity that you have a sincere desire to be part of the Danish nation and be solidarity with the Danish society. We do not believe that it is crucial whether you can Danish at Danish 3 level or at Danish 2 level, so we must vote against this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112145847	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112145858	Thank you, President. I believe that the most important foundation for being Danish is, of course, the Danish language. And I would like to begin by thanking New Civil and Danish People's Party for supporting this proposal. For us, that is common sense. And then I would say that I am a little too sorry that the Social Democrats and the Left cannot support it. I remember very well a few years ago when Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen said that there are holes in the Danish map, where Denmark is not Denmark • parallel society they are also called: You can live, you can go to work, you can be with your family day out and day in almost without speaking the Danish language. Therefore, we do not feel that an exception should be made; that is, we do not feel that having a job for a while is good enough to go in and relax these rules about taking Danish exam 3. If it is the case that you are working in a Pakistani restaurant or a hairdresser in an area of a parallel society in which the daily language is Arabic, then I do not think it is good enough to go in and relax these rules. That is why, of course, I am very sorry that the two major parties are opposed to this, because that is why it is something which, by its very nature, cannot be adopted here in the Folketing. This also makes me dread the negotiations on Danish citizenship that we are going to meet, because if you do not even want to make the tiny tightening up and say that you have to be able to properly Danish at level 3, how much do we really get out of meeting for those negotiations? Now we are going to deal next with the proposal on crime. Here, at least, the Left expressed very clearly when New Citizens, I think it was, asked that criminals should not have Danish citizenship, and the Social Democrats have also signalled that they want tightening up; I am pleased about that. So I certainly hope that this motion for a resolution can be put to the vote. But the fact that you don't even want to tighten up on the tiny thing that is about being able to properly Danish makes me dread the negotiations on Danish citizenship. However, as the authors of this proposal, we naturally support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112150119	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Lotte Rod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112150122	I have no question, but I have promised to say from the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that they will vote against. So it's done.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112150132	Thank you. It doesn't come as a big surprise, but it's good to know. It would have been a unique alliance if the Conservative People's Party, the Danish People's Party, the New Citizens' Party and the Enhedslisten together supported this, but unfortunately we are not there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112150144	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112150146	It's just to express a disappointment to Mr. Marcus Knuth's level of debate here, for Mr. Marcus Knuth continues to put forward what is called a strawman, namely that those who cannot support this bill have the attitude because they want to give citizenship to people who can hardly serve Danish. That was the content of Mr. Marcus Knuth's speech, and that's not true. If a person has been 5 years old in Denmark and speaks Danish at a Danish test 2 level, Danes will say: No, you are really good at Danish • have you really only been here for 5 years? So it's not true what Mr. Marcus Knuth says. If you cannot advance your case by presenting it correctly and objectively, then there is something wrong with your case. One must be able to present one's case correctly and objectively if one believes that one has a case.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112150243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112150245	I simply do not agree with that, because it is said that one must have passed Danish test 3, unless it is the case that one has been working in Denmark for some time. And the whole argument behind having worked for a while in Denmark is that when you have been at a workplace where you have Danish colleagues and speak Danish and use the Danish language, you can probably do it anyway. But because we have parallel societies, as the former Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen called for holes in the Danish map, where you can live your entire life and not speak the Danish language, I don't think this labour market exception is fair enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112150321	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112150322	Again, I would like to say that this is not what this is all about. The criterion of Danish examination 2 is not, after all, about living in a parallel society and not speaking the Danish Danish Examination 2 requires that you use the Danish language daily because you have a job where you speak Danish, or participate in an educational activity where you speak Danish, or have been in Denmark for many years and follow Danish television and the like. Danish Examination 2 requires much more than being in a parallel society where Danish is not spoken. Then again Mr. Marcus Knuth to draw a picture that those of us who do not support Mr. Marcus Knuth's motion for a resolution will be quite different from what is real. That's absolutely unspeakable.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112150404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112150405	On the basis of that argument, I must conclude that the Liberal Alliance does not want to take Danish exam 3 at all, but that everyone just has to take Danish exam 2. It is a massive relaxation in relation to how well or rather badly Danish one speaks, and that is certainly not what we Conservatives want.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112150422	Thank you. The next one is sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112150426	I would also like to ask the Conservatives something. I agree that we should be able to speak Danish well, and the rapporteur keeps telling us that there are parallel societies out there where we do not speak Danish. Does the rapporteur not also agree that there can be parallel societies where you speak very well Danish? I mean, I was past the French embassy, where Hizb ut-Tahrir stood, and they all talk very well Danish • what I could hear from it. So I'm thinking that one can easily be fairly integrated and talk a little half-bad Danish. Now I am thinking of some of the Yugoslav immigrants; many of them were Serbs who came to Denmark, and I would venture to claim that many of them are better integrated than those who stood in front of the embassy, although the first group speaks significantly worse Danish than the second.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112150457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112150458	Unfortunately, there are people who speak completely fluent Danish and who are completely unintegrated in Denmark, and that is also why we conservatives say that the Danish requirement is not our only requirement. It is the first in a large number of demands. And we look forward to discussing these demands with the Social Democratic Party when we come to the negotiations here on the other side of Christmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112150519	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112150521	We look forward to that too, and I also have a great deal of sympathy for the proposal. I think it is extremely important to speak very good Danish. But that is because the Conservative rapporteur says it is the most important thing; that is how I understood it. I guess crime is just as important or whether you want Danish society. Does the rapporteur not agree that there may be a few people who, for various reasons, may find it difficult to speak a fluent Danish, but who might still like Danish society, and then there is a large group of people, unfortunately, who speak fluent Danish but who do not want to?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112150551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112150552	Yes, as I said, I recognise that there are people who speak Danish but who are unfortunately not integrated, but we do not think that Danish exam 3 is such a high requirement that it should mean that you cannot obtain Danish citizenship. So for us it is to want Danish citizenship so much and having such a desire to be part of our society something that makes you really get your act together and sit down and both learn to speak the Danish language, but also learn to write the Danish language. We don't think that's too much to ask.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112150620	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. If there are no objections, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112150637	The debate is open, and we shall first give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112150659	The Conservative People's Party proposes, with this resolution, to permanently exclude all persons who have been sentenced to a conditional or unconditional prison sentence from being able to obtain Danish citizenship. I agree with the authors that obtaining Danish citizenship is a gift. The granting of the Danish passport to foreigners is a great declaration of trust from Danish society, and if you want Danish citizenship, you must of course also be able to behave properly and earn it. Rules apply today as to when you can become a Danish citizen, which a broad majority in the Danish Parliament is behind. By the summer of 2018, among others, the Conservatives helped tighten these rules, so it became harder to become a Danish citizen if you have committed crime. This means that more crimes now rule out a person from ever being able to become a Danish citizen. Let me just give you a few examples. If you receive an unconditional penalty of one year or more, it will result in permanent exclusion. If you commit perilous crime and receive an unconditional penalty of three months or more, this will result in permanent exclusion. If you engage in violence against children or commit a sexual offence, it means permanent exclusion if the applicant was over 18 years of age when the crime was committed. If you commit gang crime, it leads to permanent exclusion. Speaking of gang crime, we are currently working in the government on a bill that it should be possible, by judgment, to exclude persons convicted of certain types of serious gang crime, their Danish citizenship, unless they thereby become stateless. Compared to the tightening of these requirements that we agreed back in the summer of 2018, we have been in the archive and tried to find out what the effect of them has really been. If you take from the summer 2018 until the summer 2020, i.e. a 2-year period, then 94 refusals have been granted where the applicant was excluded due to crime. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs was also informed about this back in August. In 83 of those cases, the person concerned would not have been excluded under the previous rules. This means that the sharpenings that we agreed in the summer of 2018 have resulted in the rejection of their application by those 83 people here because of crime. I think we can be satisfied with this, because our actions must, of course, have consequences, but there must also be the right balance between the violation of the law and the consequences it will have. If we exclude all those who have been given unconditional and conditional prison sentences permanently from obtaining Danish citizenship, we will also exclude the person who, for example, has been granted Danish citizenship. as a young person has been sentenced to a short-term prison sentence. It could, for example, be done. be a person who, at the age of 22, has been sentenced to 14 days' conditional imprisonment for graffitiimaling on a train. In such a case, after this motion for a resolution, even much later in life, i.e. at the age of 40 or 50 or 80, they will be excluded from Danish citizenship. So I think it is a matter of balance where we should both take account of what crimes are involved and then the sentence imposed. However, as I said, I fully agree with the Conservative People's Party that it is a gift to become a Danish citizen and that we must make high demands on those who want to become Danish citizens, but I do not agree that the right balance has been found in this resolution. That is why the government cannot support the proposal. As I have also said before, on several occasions today in the course of the examination of previous proposals, I intend to call in December all the parties of the Danish Parliament for negotiations on a new birthright circular, in which we adjust the existing rules. We expect to be able to begin the actual negotiations on this on the other side of New Year. In this context, of course, we will also have the opportunity to discuss this proposal, but I would also like to say that our starting point is that we need to find the right balance and I am a little nervous that this resolution has not found the right balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112151109	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112151113	Thank you, Minister. I look forward very much to the negotiations we will have here at the beginning of the new year. But quite frankly, if, with these two Conservative resolutions, we can already see that the government does not want to tighten up the little bit about it, that one has to be able to speak Danish properly, and that one does not want to tighten up the very, very obvious thing, that criminal foreigners should not, as a starting point, have Danish citizenship, what is there to go into at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112151142	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112151143	I think there is plenty to negotiate on. We also have a desire from the Social Democrats and from the government that something should be done about crime. I am just saying today that I think the balance that lies in this motion for a resolution is a little off. So let us try to move a little into the substantive discussion. I mention in my speech a concrete example of a judgment that has fallen, which says that a 22-year-old man who has painted graffiti on a train has been given 14 days of suspended imprisonment. Should we tell him that he will never be able to become a Danish citizen for the rest of his life? Another concrete example: a 27-year-old man convicted of moped theft more than once will be sentenced to 10 days' suspended imprisonment. Should we tell him that he can never become a Danish citizen? I am not sure that we have found the right balance there if we vote for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112151239	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112151240	I feel like I don't think you should do graffiti on S-train. I don't think it should steal a moped either. Part of the legislation is preventive, and it could be that these two lawbreakers had not painted graffiti or stolen a moped if they were aware that it would prevent them from obtaining Danish citizenship. Does the Minister recognise that the tightening-up we are proposing here will also have a proper, sensible preventive effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112151311	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112151312	I also think it is wrong to do graffiti on S-trains, and I also think it is wrong to steal mopeds. I think we are 179 people in here who think so, and that is why we also have a punishment for it, and if you are a foreigner, I think it is quite reasonable that there may be an additional penalty in the form of a waiting period if you apply for Danish citizenship. What we are discussing is whether to permanently, forever, be excluded from obtaining Danish citizenship if you have stolen a moped or painted on a S-train. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112151344	Thank you. Then I have no more on the list, and we thank the Minister. We are starting with the rapporteur's series and the first is the Socialist rapporteur. It's sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112151355	Thank you. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that there must of course be very strict conditions for obtaining Danish citizenship, especially when it concerns the standard of conduct of future citizens' morals and ability to comply with Danish legislation and not to commit crime. We therefore believe that it is quite reasonable for us politically to impose strict requirements on people who want to become part of our community, because we must do our duty before we can demand our right. It is a great privilege to become a Danish citizen. In particular, it should be seen in the light of the examples in which the Folketing has previously granted Danish citizenship to persons who have later proved indifferent to our community and who, in several cases, we cannot expel because they alone are Danish citizens and would thus become stateless. That is why we must, of course, have strict conditions for obtaining Danish citizenship. In 2018, a majority of the Danish Parliament's parties entered into an agreement to tighten the conditions for obtaining Danish citizenship. The agreement included, inter alia: an element that people who have previously committed crime had more difficulty obtaining Danish citizenship. We in the Social Democratic Party were very pleased with that agreement. I would also like to thank the Conservatives once again for tabling a sensible motion for a resolution and raising the debate, and, as I said earlier today, we would very much like to see further tightening of the conditions to be met by those who apply to become Danish citizens, because we must go a long way to prevent the granting of Danish citizenship to people who do not want to become part of Danish society, behave properly and contribute to our community. Finally, we in the Social Democratic Party believe that there must be a reasonable balance between an offence and the consequences of a given offence. The Social Democrats do not support the resolution, but we look forward to discussing further austerity when we have negotiations on the other side of New Year.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112151547	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112151552	Thank you very much. I think it is sad that we are now entering into some negotiations where the two most obvious tightenings are precisely the fact that foreigners must be able to properly Danish and that criminal foreigners should not have Danish citizenship • have already been swept off the table by the Social Democratic Party. If you go out and ask the ordinary Danish people whether a criminal foreigner who has been imprisoned or at least has been sentenced to prison should be able to obtain Danish citizenship, what does the rapporteur think the majority of the Danes would answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112151623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112151624	I think I'm going a little further away from the Palace Square if I'm going to meet ordinary Danes not right outside right now! But I understand what the rapporteur means. I think that depends very much on the situation. Let me give you an example. I was listening to a podcast the other day about Danish Jews talking about harassment in the city during the nightlife. At one point there was a girl who had stabbed someone a flat; he had bothered her because she had a star of David around her neck. Let us say that she was an Israeli citizen... does the questioner think that she should never be able to obtain Danish citizenship? Because it's illegal to beat or give someone a flat, but you can be pushed up in a corner and do it. That is also sometimes the case when you read about some judgments; when you then dive into them, you can sometimes have an understanding of it in individual cases • in individual cases, because of course the vast majority of those who have committed crime should not have a Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112151703	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112151704	Well, in relation to very special cases, we also have the committee where there are exemptions cases. Well, getting a prison sentence isn't just a fine. There's a lot of people using speeding tickets as an example. I once received a speeding ticket, so I did not receive a prison sentence, either conditional or unconditional. So when you get a prison sentence, you're pretty high on the scale. So the rapporteur does not think that both from a preventive point of view, but also from the point of view of reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112151742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112151743	Yes, in the vast majority of cases. But as I understand it in relation to a conditional sentence, you might get it in this case. Now I don't remember how the case ended, but something like that might give a conditional sentence. I think it is important to say that we are calling for these negotiations and then we have to look at it. That does not mean that there can be no tightenings. I don't think most parties want to reward people who commit serious crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112151807	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112151809	Thank you so much. I do not know exactly what happened, but the sound disappeared before when the Minister was up, but then the rapporteur gets the question instead. It is true that a tightening was made in 2018, where you among other things. said that there were some crimes which meant that one was forever excluded from obtaining Danish citizenship. But there were also some problems with the Central Crime Register, namely that there were some sentences that disappeared, so that one did not actually have the opportunity to follow up on it, because those sentences simply disappeared out of the system so those officials who, like, had to sit and check these things, could not see it. It has been asked about this in 2019, when it was said that there was a study going on and that would be finished by mid 2020. We haven't really heard anything about it. I have asked questions about this again and so far I have not received an answer to it. Can the rapporteur say a little bit about whether the Social Democracy and the Ministry have come closer to finding a solution to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112151906	I do not know specifically about the things that should have disappeared or should no longer be found in the register, but I think that New Citizens should take it with them and very much like to come up with ideas on how to tighten it further. I want to say again: nobody wants people who commit crime to have Danish citizenship. I do not think there is much disagreement between Social Democracy and New Citizens in relation to this in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112151923	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112151925	I guess there is, but that's not what I asked you about at all. It was really only if a solution had been found so that you could actually carry out the tightening that was being done in 2018, with regard to the fact that there were some crimes that were supposed to exclude you from citizenship forever. It is just a problem if you cannot see it in the Central Crime Register after a few years if someone simply disappears. A study was launched, and that is just where I am asking whether anything has come out of that study so as to solve the problem and what else the Social Democrats will do about that problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112152000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112152001	I don't know exactly what happened to the Central Criminal Register. It's under the jurisdiction of the Justice Department. But now the Minister comes, and it may be that the Minister knows a little about it and can talk about it when the Minister comes up again. I don't know about it myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112152009	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Morten Dahlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112152023	Once again, I would like to say that I am actually a little sad to have to stand here on the platform, and this is still not due to those in the Palace Square, even though I am becoming more and more annoyed by the noise. This is due to the same thing that it did before, namely that this resolution has been discussed once this year. In fact, I think we had a good and substantial discussion and, in view of that, we sent a letter to the Minister requesting that negotiations be convened. The minister promised he would, but he hasn't done it yet, and that's why we're here again. That is why I can start by saying the same thing I said last time. Danish citizenship is something very special. It shouldn't be for anyone. As a foreigner, just to give a few examples, you have to understand and accept Danish values, and you have to speak the language, and of course you also have to comply with the Danish laws and regulations. Therefore, the position of the Left is also crystal clear: Foreigners who have committed serious crime must not be able to obtain Danish citizenship. It simply cannot be done, for example. can commit gang crime or commit violence against children and then be rewarded with a Danish passport. That is why we have tightened the rules, so for example. That type of crime excludes you from getting citizenship forever! The restrictions we made in 2018 also meant that if you get an unconditional prison sentence of between 6 and 12 months, 18 years will have to pass before you can qualify to become a Danish citizen. If you have been given an unconditional prison sentence of more than one year, you can never obtain Danish citizenship, and if we talk about dangerous personal crime, any unconditional three-month prison sentence or more will result in exclusion for life. So we in the Left have been involved in tightening the rules in the past, but does this mean that we have the perfect rules today and that they cannot be changed? No, of course not. In fact, we believe that there is a need to look at the rules on citizenship, both in terms of allocation and withdrawal. We are, for example. Too bad to take citizenship from gang criminals, and the Left has today put forward a proposal to use some of the new legal legal bases that have come, against gang criminals, to also take the citizenship of people who commit crime if there is serious drug crime. We also think it is worth looking at the allocation of citizenship to criminals, especially those with unconditional prison sentences. So we look forward to the discussion in the Ministry. We hope it comes soon. Anyway, we're ready. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112152307	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112152325	We in the Danish People's Party are fully in line with the proposers here. We think it makes sense to tighten up on this issue. We do not think that you should have Danish citizenship if you have committed serious crime, and it has to be said that you are up there where you can have conditional or unconditional prison sentences. So this is a sensible tightening of the circular. We would very much like to support that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112152404	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Lotte Rod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112152414	Should you be able to obtain Danish citizenship if you have committed personal crime with a sentence of more than 3 months in prison? No. Should you be able to obtain Danish citizenship if you have committed violence against children? No. Should you be able to obtain Danish citizenship if you have committed sex crimes? No. Or should you be able to obtain Danish citizenship if you have committed gang crime? No. These are the rules already today, and that is why I think it is important that, when we have this discussion, it does not sound as if all criminals are just getting citizenship. There's actually pretty tight rules for that. If we can find some examples where that makes sense, we in the Radical Left would also like to take part in looking at it. However, I think, like the Minister, that there must be a balance in that if, for example, we are going to have to look at it. have done some things while you were young, should not be excluded from it forever. That is the balance we have in our legal system, and I think it is important to maintain that balance. That is why we in the Radical Left are opposed to the proposal. I welcome the Enhedslisten and say that the Enhedslisten is also against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112152534	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112152537	The current rules say, of course, that you can spend as much as one year in prison and then, after a career, get Danish citizenship. I think that's crazy. You have to do something very, very violent to get 1 year in prison. Although we cannot quite meet when it comes to excluding any prison sentence from Danish citizenship, as the Conservatives want, can the rapporteur come to me a step in relation to the one-year limit? Can we just say a half-year, a quarter-year or a month in prison? Or does the rapporteur think that 1 year of prison is fine as it is today?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112152616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112152617	Well, it's factually wrong that 1 year's imprisonment is needed before you get citizenship. There are, after all, a large number of things that you are excluded from for a period of time. I mean, if you, for example... If you are fined 3,000 kroner, you are excluded from citizenship for 41⁄2 years. So it is simply factually wrong that one year of imprisonment is needed to exclude one.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112152645	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112152647	So now we are talking about two very different things. In order to be permanently excluded, the upper limit of one year's imprisonment applies. Then I'm well aware that there are some waiting periods. Now we are talking about those who are being excluded forever and ever. Where should the limit be in relation to the Radical Left? Can we tighten up just a little bit, or are the rules fine as they are?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112152706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112152707	My starting point is that we strike the balance as it is today. I would like, if something makes sense to look at it, to look at it, but we must strike a balance, so that if you do some things that are not so serious while you are still young, you are not bound by it forever. It is just important for me in this discussion to hold on to the fact that it is a wrong picture to draw to people who may sit out there and keep up with our debate that it has no consequences unless it is a one-year sentence in prison. I mean, even for a fine of 3,000 kroner. is excluded from obtaining citizenship for 41⁄2 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112152747	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur and we will move on to the SF rapporteur. This is Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112152755	Thank you very much for the floor. Access to Danish citizenship is not something you just get, and it makes sense that there are certain criteria, for example. criminal record and language skills, as has been established in previous debates. In the SF, we wholeheartedly support the need to make demands on all those who want Danish citizenship. As can be seen, there are already quite clear requirements for applicants applying for Danish citizenship, among others. about Danish knowledge, self-reliance and whether or not one has been punished earlier. In certain situations, there are caring periods and there are stricter requirements for perilous crime, terrorism, gang crimes and sexual crimes. These are serious crimes which we, as a society, should not accept at all, but should leave behind consequences. However, we should not brand very young people, for example, who, in an early youth, have made such a single mistake and have received a conditional sentence, but maybe later stick to the right side of the law. In the SF we are, in fact, open to doing more in relation to crime, which is very serious, and for it to become more important in terms of citizenship and expulsion, but minor offences should not prevent otherwise those legally committed citizens from acquiring citizenship. With this I would like to inform you that the SF will vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112152948	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to Mrs Mette Thiesen, the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112152956	For the vast majority of Danes, the wording of this proposal will resonate. Of course, those who have violated Denmark's legislation should not be rewarded with the finest gift, namely to obtain Danish citizenship. Unfortunately, however, that logic has not penetrated into all the corners of Christiansborg. Unfortunately, there is a large majority of politicians and parties at Christiansborg who still believe that we should throw this fine gift in grams, and it is unhappy, not only for Denmark, but also for future generations • generations of Danes who have to live with that criminal foreigners can now commit more crime and that it is even harder to throw them out of the country. In new citizens, we believe that we must proceed much more stringently. We will stop all granting citizenship to foreigners who come from Muslim countries, for which we have statistical evidence, being over-represented in crime statistics. Criminal foreigners must be deported consistently and after the first sentence, and foreigners who have been granted Danish citizenship must be deprived and deported if they are sentenced to an unconditional sentence of liberty. We are, of course, voting in favour of this proposal which tightens the rules. I have also asked how many criminal foreigners there are on the bill on citizenship that we dealt with earlier today. The proposal here is a small step along the way, but more needs to be done. In New Citizens, we don't want any more patching solutions... we want to solve the immigration policy from scratch.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112153149	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112153158	We in the Liberal Alliance would like to help tighten up the allocation of citizenship, including on the allocation of citizenship to applicants who have committed criminal offences in Denmark. We find it difficult to believe that if you come here from another country and in a relatively short period of time, a short period of time, you are already beginning to commit crime against people in the new country you have come to, you have a sincere desire to be a full member of that country, in this case Denmark. And that is the reason why we believe that it should have serious consequences for people's application for citizenship if criminal offences have been committed in Denmark. On the other hand, this resolution is also very ultimate in losing the right to receive Danish citizenship forever if you have been sentenced to an unconditional or conditional prison sentence. We fully agree with today's rules, which mean that serious crimes lose the right to become a citizen of Denmark forever, but we do not believe that this should be applied forever in comparison with this much milder crime. For example, you have... We think that it might be appropriate, for example, to have criminal offences committed in a relatively mild manner, which could trigger a conditional or unconditional sentence. a 25-year period, so that the spot on your application for citizenship disappears after 25 years, if you have behaved properly and on the side of the law in Denmark, and you can then obtain citizenship. It is this absolute part that it is forever that you lose the right to Danish citizenship, which means that we are probably not going to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112153438	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to the draftsman of the opinion of the authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112153451	Thank you, sir. President. I would like to thank the Danish People's Party and New Citizens again for supporting this proposal, just as you supported what was before. I do not know whether to say that we are the three Musketeers, but I am certainly glad that we Conservatives do not stand alone with the view that it is perfectly common sense that criminal foreigners should of course not have Danish citizenship. I actually hope that one day the Ekstra Bladet will try to do one of those surveys I know they are not so democratically representative and ask the Danes the question: Should a foreigner who has received a prison sentence be able to obtain Danish citizenship yes or no? I am convinced that the answer would be an overwhelming no. And there I think it is a pity that we do not see the same thinking here in the Danish Parliament and that there are so many parties that say: hard crime and criminal foreigners should not have it, but anyway, if you now wait 25 years or if it was not so serious and so on. Come on! Let us say that to the young people who go out there and who of course don't sit around reading the law and say, well, if it's rape, the consequence hits a little harder than if it's fraud, said: If you get a prison sentence, you can never become a Danish citizen. Then I think it would have an effect, that is, in the criminal environments where there are young people who want Danish citizenship because they know what a privilege it is. So, yes, I look forward to the negotiations. I think this is a rather awkward way to start, that we can't even take the two most obvious things of Danish language and crime here already to come a step towards sensible tightening up in terms of Danish citizenship. However, I hope that we will still be able to get some very good and sensible things through to the negotiations, which, unfortunately, will not come until the beginning of the new year. Conservatives, of course, back up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112153649	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112153652	As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, we support the proposal and we think it is very sensible to tighten up both language requirements and crime. But I am just surprised that a rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party is no longer interested in the cultural aspect, the religious aspect. Well, all culture is based on religion. One is very interested in preventing the access of criminals to citizenship, but what about those who have a culture that we now know from experience is very, very difficult, not to say impossible to integrate into the Danish, namely the Islamic? I think we hear amazingly little about that from the Conservative angle. Why?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112153736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112153737	But that's not true. So now we are going to the negotiations with many very good proposals, but the three proposals we have put forward over the past year are about the Danish language, crime and the need for a personal interview. I don't think that's even a year since we were debating in this Chamber. And it is precisely to ensure that in relation to Islamists such as the bookseller from Brønshøj or Hizb ut-Tahrir Members, as Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen of the Social Democracy described before, through a conversation may have a screening that then sorts out some of them. So that's the way we're gonna do it. And we have actually got through that, that is to say that it is one of the things we need to investigate. I even think that we should have been in Austria to look at how to do that. So that is clearly part of Conservative priorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112153824	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112153825	This is clearly also a proposal on which we will support and on which we have also expressed a very positive opinion. But we do not think that is enough. I mean, you could ask for, for example. to give up people's religious background when they stand on the laws, especially when we vote on individuals individually in the Committee on Bodily Rights. It is absolutely absurd that we cannot be told whether we are Christian or Muslim if we come from Syria, for example. And it makes a huge, huge difference when you come to the country, whether you are part of the Muslim parallel society or very quickly can become part of the Muslim parallel society in Denmark, or whether you can be part of the Christian majority community in Denmark, because of your background.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112153909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112153910	There we have Conservatives just the simple point of view that if you make sure that the way you get to a screening interview is good enough, you will be able to point out exactly such issues, in terms of whether people are Islamists or have tendencies towards terror • all the things that we all think you should not support if you are to be a Danish citizen
ParlaMint-DK_20201112153935	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteurs. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on the Rights of the Child. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112153952	The debate is open. I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 17 November 2020. We start with the explanatory statement, and that is the rapporteur for the questions, Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112154022	Thank you. Religion matters. Religion provides a world view and a set of values. But the last 50 years have underestimated both Islam and Christianity here in Denmark. Islamic values do not go away because people come to Denmark, get a fine home and a job and learn Danish. Increased living standards plus lower temperatures do not of themselves give Danish Christian values, because you carry your culture with you, and you reproduce it very much here under the northern skies. The Islamisation of Denmark means that Danes are involuntarily subject to Muslim rules and that Muslims who want to break out of a cultural parallel universe are maintained in it. Danes should not be forced to listen to Muslim prayer calls, eat halal meat or take time off on Muslim holidays. Nor should one accept that it is dangerous for a teacher to use the Mohammed drawings in teaching, or that one should not sing Christmas hymns in schools. We must not compromise our culture and our freedom, which derive from our own free Danish and Christian values. However, in order to preserve the freedom we have, we must oppose Islamisation. The government should push for that. One can study the Austrian precedent of closing mosques and limiting the influence of Islam, and one can look at the French proposal, which is now also beginning to focus on limiting the influence of Islam. It's a good thing you've woke up around the world. You just have to hope it's not too late. The cultural struggle for our own culture is crucial to halt Islamisation, but it is clear that it must go hand in hand with asylum arrests, repatriations, repatriation and the dismantling of parallel societies. We hope that this debate will be able to give more impetus to the measures against Islamisation in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112154232	Thank you for now. That was the reason. Then we move on to the answer and give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112154252	Thank you. Who are we? Who are we Danes? Yes, you could start with a small historical anecdote: In the 1970s you wanted to build a new non-profit residential area on Amager in an area where there were colonial gardens. And it caused a lot of dissatisfaction. The popular singer, artist and filmmaker Erik Clausen wrote a song in this regard, "Mormor's Colony Garden House," which I think we can all sing along with. They lost the fight for the colonial gardens back then. Instead we got the Urban Plan, but the song won a place in the Højskole songbook and has become part of Danish cultural heritage. But today, Colony Garden Denmark lost again. Because the song has gone out of the new high school songbook. On the other hand, we've got a Ramadansong. So who are we? Who are the Danes? A place to break up is in the Højskole songbook, in which we have traditionally all been able to reflect ourselves, perhaps not agreed with everything, but you could see our own country and our own people in the texts and the melodies that are in that book. Another way to get the discussion about who we are is to raise a question debate like the one that the Danish People's Party has raised today, and I would like to thank you for that. It seems to me that this is about how we protect a free, open, democratic, solidarity society from extremism, from forces that are openly trying to divide the people of Denmark and sabotage integration. Because it is true that in Europe there are problems with extreme Islamism and negative social control. And, unfortunately, we see that in Denmark too. The presence of Muslims or Islam in Denmark is not a problem in itself. Fortunately, Danish democracy has always been large enough to accommodate different groups, different beliefs, different perceptions of life, and so is society today. We are today too, and we must continue to be. Freedom of religion is fundamental, and of course the government is watching over it. The problems I am highlighting here are the challenges associated with Islamism, a movement that undermines our open democracy and the free way of life that the vast majority of the population want. It is about clan structures which, with religious arguments, try to subjugate other people's will and their perception of life. We have seen for decades the devastating consequences that forces have had outside the borders of Denmark, especially in the Middle East and in the countries around the Middle East, with great consequences for peoples and for societies. Throughout history, societies have contributed so much to all of us. We all know 1001 Night's Adventure, we may know that the numbers were originally Arabic. Some also know something about medicine and astronomy and much more that has been contributed by Persians, Arabs, Turks and many other peoples throughout history. We have seen how authoritarian regimes have drawn destruction through these societies, through their economy, through their science and through their culture. Fortunately, this is not the reality in Denmark, but we have to recognise that we see examples of the same ideas trying to gain ground in our society and how they are trying to turn the Muslim part of the population against the values and the norms that are at the heart of our society. We have all heard of the case from Odense, where, according to an article in Berlingske, a young woman should have signed a divorce contract with a large number of monstrous demands in order to be able to divorce her husband and not to lose the right of association with her children. And the press has also recently reported on how religious councils and imams supposedly rule whole districts and judge other people's lives, especially women. And we even hear stories of imams taking money to prepare women's oppressive divorce contracts. Such things are, of course, totally unacceptable. It has nothing to do with a democratic society like ours, but it seems that these are the conditions that some are trying to impose on women in Denmark. Extreme Islamism thus undermines democracy, but it also challenges the security of our country, and that is a huge barrier to integration. A clear first condition for meeting the challenges is that we dare address them openly and honestly, and we have probably been a little too late for that in Denmark, but we have come a bit into action against these anti-democratic forces. The Social Democratic Party, together with other parties, helped to conclude the broad political agreement in 2016 on religious preachers, also called the Imam Law, which came in continuation of some television broadcasts called the Mosques behind the veil. We have also initiated changes in some of the most vulnerable residential areas to ensure a new housing mix in Vollsmose, in Gellerup, in Mjølnerparken and in many other places. A more mixed household composition is necessary if we are to avoid divisions and parallel societies and instead try to bring this country together. Following the same philosophy, we have given the country's secondary schools the opportunity to temporarily change the composition of pupils if too many pupils are similar, if their backgrounds are similar and if they crawl together in individual colleges, as well as working on a model to ensure that children and young people with different backgrounds meet each other in daily offers, schools and youth education. A large number of other initiatives have also been taken against extreme Islamism and anti-democratic forces in society. It may be about the masking ban, about the regulation of residence permit requirements for imams and a hate preacher list in order to avoid the most radicalised preachers entering Denmark. In addition, the government has just presented yesterday a bill to stop the influx of money from fundamentalist and anti-democratic forces, including to the religious organisations in this country, and we are also looking at whether greater openness can be created about the sermons being held in languages other than Danish. In addition, before Christmas, the government will put forward a bill to strengthen the fight against social control. Religious marriages of minors must be prohibited. We must ensure that there is no doubt that negative social control constitutes the core area of psychological violence. We will therefore increase the penalty for those who maintain others in marriages or other marriage-like relationships against their will. In addition to all the concrete measures, it is also very important that we have a strong focus on preventing the problems from occurring at all. We're gonna have to, among other things. have better and more accurate knowledge of the problem. In this context, I can tell you that the Ministry's annual citizenship survey in 2021 will focus on the relationship between religion and society in Denmark, including in particular Muslim practice and special requirements. I am also of the opinion that we should have some more honest figures that tell us more clearly where and how the problems are. If there are special groups in society where there are particular problems, yes, that is where we must take action. There may not be the same challenges with immigration from the Far East as there are from the Middle East; we are working on that too. Today there are nearly 300,000 people in Denmark who are immigrants or descendants of Muslim countries, and a large proportion of them have become Danish citizens. They're here now, and they'll be here in the future. They're our acquaintances. They're our neighbors. They're us. They're in the Folketing. In fact, I think there are a handful of good colleagues in the Folketing who are either themselves immigrants from those countries or have parents who are. The goal must be that Muslims in Denmark define themselves as Danish fellow citizens, as they have long since done, and not as members of a Muslim counter-society. The aim must be that loyalty and solidarity are for the society in which you live. The aim must be to accept civil rights and duties, as they stand in the constitution and not as justified by the Koran. The goal must be that we live together and not just next to each other in culturally separate societies in society. We are one nation in Denmark. We should not be a multicultural society. We have done something to counter social control and to combat extreme Islamism and to combat its roots in our society. As a government, as I have mentioned, we have several different proposals on the way, but we must not be naive either. The extremist forces we also see in Denmark are not supporters of citizenship. They're all anti-citizens. They are carried by an extreme and fundamentalist approach to life, and their opposition to fundamental values on which our democracy and our way of life are based is reasonably entrenched. I therefore believe that the fight against extremism and social control will be a long-term affair. Nor do I believe that it can be implemented by meeting one afternoon here in the Danish Parliament and adopting a legislative catalogue, and then it is over. We are going to be discussing this for many years to come, and I believe that there will be a need for stubborn, patient, principled and also politically broad cooperation to deal with extreme Islamism in Denmark and to ensure that no one divides the Muslim population from the rest of Danish society. So I would like to conclude by saying that in the discussion about how we take care of the nation, community and democracy and the rule of the people in Denmark, we are very open on the part of the government. Several of the initiatives we are going to present in the coming months have, in fact, been stolen with arms and legs from parties here in the Folketing, from other countries and from wise heads, academics who interfere in the debate and have opinions on the issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112155311	Thank you. After all, one brief comment is now available for each of the rapporteurs, and the first is for Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112155325	I am pleased that the Minister is opposed to extreme Islamism, negative social control and clan structures. So am I. But I just did not hear the Minister say that Islamism must be stopped, and that is what this is about. The minister said that Islam itself is not a problem. I completely disagree with that. Islam itself is so there I think the Minister is wrong and I simply do not think the Minister is responding to the question. Should you stop Islamism, or should you not? Does the Minister not think that it is a problem that Danes are involuntarily subject to Islamic requirements, such as not drawing the Prophet Muhammad, that in some places you are forced to eat halal meat, because people for strange reasons think it is more important to meet Muslim eating requirements than ordinary traditional Danish ones? So should we not limit the possibility of Islamic rules being imposed on others?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112155436	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112155437	If I visit a mosque, I take off my shoes because I'm a guest in the mosque, just like I'm not wearing a hat in the church. But if Imam tries to impose Muslim values and standards on the rest of Danish society, it is not an expression of respect, then it is an expression of submission if one accepts it. So in the sense that religious authorities and institutions are trying to impose Islamic values and standards on the Danish society, yes, it must be stopped, and that is why we are also warm supporters of the masking ban. Because that means that what I consider to be an Islamisation, namely a burka that goes down Nørrebrogade, is not legal. Similarly, we are also examining the legal basis for whether it is possible to ban prayer calls without also banning church bells, and in the same way we could raise lots of other discussions that I all think are relevant. Because we should not subject ourselves to a way of interpreting Islam, which is trying to impose the standards on the rest of Danish society which, in some people's view, Islam is based on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112155544	Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go, one brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112155550	Thank you very much. I would like to acknowledge that the Minister has collaborated with us in many good areas in relation to the problems that are, in relation to donations etc., but one of the things that I think many Danes are facing is precisely these noisy Muslim prayer calls from mosques, and there the Minister has been out saying that it was a lone swallow and so on. Subsequently, it has become apparent that there are several applications from mosques who would like to make noisy Muslim or Arab prayer calls, as is the case in Sweden. Is it something that the Minister now, when we see that it was not just a single swallow, will actually take action against?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112155629	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112155630	We are examining the law on whether it is possible to ban prayer calls on Fridays when you are going down after Fridays candy, without also banning church bells on Sundays, and that is because it is our view that church bells historically and culturally belong in Danish society, whereas prayer calls seem presumptuous. We are not going to table legislative proposals which will ban church bells in Denmark, and that is why we need to examine the legal basis here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112155705	The next brief remark is Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112155710	Thank you so much. In his speech, the Minister mentions two specific examples, and I would really like to take them up again. The minister mentions that from being a lovely area with colonial garden houses the grandmother's colonial garden house becomes the Urban plan, and the minister also mentions the example of having this colonial garden song, and we have also had this Danish song by Shu-bi-dua in the Højskole songbook, which is now replaced by a ramadansang. Does the Minister really believe that this is a positive development, or does the Minister, whom we in the New Citizens' Party believe that it is a totally wrong and terrible development that we must so much oppose and work against?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112155805	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112155806	My son went to the crèche in the Urban Plan, and it was an excellent daycare centre with good educators and good parents and good children. Conversely, anyone who has read the book called "Planen" can also sign that there are, to say the least, both social and integration challenges in the residential area. I believe, and this is my general conclusion after 50 years of immigration to Denmark, that it has brought a lot of good things here, but it has also given a lot of enormous challenges for our society, and therefore I am always a little skeptical if anyone says that it has only been bad or that it has only been good.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112155853	Thank you. I have no more inscribed to this round with one brief comment. We thank the Minister. Are there any more? Yeah, and we'll make it. Sir. Morten Dahlin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112155909	Thank you. I would like to continue on track in relation to the noisy prayer calls. Because when we had the debate in this Chamber about the Blue motion for a resolution to take action on this, the Minister gave the reason that the Minister did not think it was a big enough problem for the Minister to take action now, but when it became a big enough problem, the Minister should take action. I just want to know whether, in the months that have passed since we discussed this last time, the Minister has changed his mind and is now able to see that this problem is growing and that we need to take action sooner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112155954	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112155955	I do not know if it is growing; I have not heard of any concrete prayer call since then. I have heard that some applications have been submitted to some municipalities and that some municipalities do not really believe that there is a legal basis for dealing with those applications. They have then been sent into the ministry, and we note not in my own ministry, but in the Ministry of Churches that no legislation regulates this kind of thing, and that is why I think it is regular enough to take up the discussion. In my opinion, if there is to be legislation, it is necessary for us to find a way to distinguish between prayer calls and church bells, and it takes a lawyer to determine whether that distinction can be made. If we cannot do that, then I think we should think very carefully before we, for example, are able to do so. bans the call to prayer from religious buildings in Denmark, because it is nevertheless 1,000 years of Christian cultural heritage that we should just relate to there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112160045	Thank you. Then I have no more in this round with just one brief comment. Then we say thank you to the Minister in this round. Then we can move on to the negotiating round itself, and the first to speak here is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Krarup. I would like to say once again that we can then put forward proposals for adoption. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112160114	While there is just a replacement in the chair here, I can also say, with regard to the demonstration and noise nuisances they give in this Chamber, that the Bureau has discussed with the Copenhagen Police Office whether there is anything that can be done. I went down there today and talked to them and with them, and unfortunately I had to say that it has not helped much, so I hope that Members of Parliament can continue to conduct the negotiations under tolerable conditions. Then I shall give the floor to Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112160151	Thank you. We'll just have to shout out loud then. The cultural struggle between Danish culture and Islamisation is the crucial factor in how the future will shape itself in Denmark. Danish culture must win if we are to preserve our free democratic everyday life. It is therefore not enough to demand of foreigners that they get a job and an education. Values are crucial. We must reject Islamic values and Islamic ways of life and ensure that Danish culture is strong and, for example, strong. dominates everywhere in Danish public institutions. At the same time, we must make Danish culture more clear and easier to acquire. We therefore call on the government to stop Islamisation, to tighten up the granting of citizenship, to ensure Danish cultural dominance in public institutions, to close radical mosques, to stop so-called Sharia courts, to protect apostate Muslims and to strengthen Danishism and Christianity in Denmark, so that people who are in the country can be better integrated and who cannot be repatriated. It is only the immigrants who have themselves made a choice to be integrated that has actually become Danish. Unfortunately, these people appear to be a minority of immigrants. The others, who did not wish to make a choice to integrate, have largely continued their cultural standards in Denmark. This has led to cultural clashes, parallel societies and negative social control in immigrant families. The negative social control is very often due to the fact that cultural standards are also religious. Islam itself is thus a main source of poor integration. Religion is probably also the reason why Muslim immigrants, both in the first and second generation, marry Danes, making it more difficult to achieve full integration. Islam is a religion of law that differs in a variety of ways from Christianity. There are, for example: There is little room for freedom of expression, equality, democracy and the choice of a spouse. However, it would hardly be a problem with Muslim congregations in Denmark if the number of Muslims corresponded to that of the Jews, namely about 8,000, but the very number of Muslims in Denmark makes it easier to adhere to the cultural standards of the home country in parallel cultural groups with the same language and standards. It is therefore important to ensure that the Muslim proportion of the population does not become larger; preferably it should be smaller. It can do so by repatriation, repatriation, re-migration, integration and mission, and that is the way we must go to ensure that we resist Islamisation. A forecast from the Pew Research Center showed in 2017 that the number of Muslims in Denmark by a mean immigration by 2050 would be 770,000 persons, equivalent to just under 12%. of the population. This is a very violent change from before 1983 when we hardly had Muslim culture represented in Denmark. In order to ensure that immigrants are actually integrated into Denmark, we need to strengthen our ability to continue the Danish culture. It takes a high degree of faith in its own cultural value to demand that others submit to or adopt one's own cultural standards. The belief in own worth has been erode in Denmark for the last 50 years. A particularly bad example of this was the recent SAS commercial, in which SAS says that nothing is true Scandinavian and that everything has come to us from the outside. With such little self-confidence, it is clear that you cannot integrate other people into your culture, and therefore strengthening the Danish self-consciousness and cultural self-esteem is an important part of what is needed to ensure that we can combat Islamisation. We need to actively maintain and cultivate the Danish culture in order to be sure that it survives and that the cultural aliens who are in the country and who are not legally justified to return home will have the opportunity to become part of the Danish culture. Danish culture is not value- or religion-neutral. It is based on a Christian basis. Therefore, you can sing hymns in Danish schools, and you can have Christmas events in hospitals and nursing homes. Local plans could also be made which say that areas should not be dominated by non-Danish buildings such as: Storm mosques. We could also agree that we do not want Islamic prayer calls, that we do not want schools to take time off on Muslim holidays, that we do not want Muslim scarves to be allowed, that we do not want sex-separated swimming lessons to be held, or that we do not want in other ways a Muslim way of life to be submitted to. Indeed, we must not allow Islamisation to prevail because we believe that neutrality is an option. The Danish institutions stand on a long tradition of Danishness and Christianity, and it is important to remember that the Danish national symbol Dannebrog is a Christian cross. It shows something about what the Danish culture consists of, and it must be maintained. Danish culture must win the cultural struggle if we are to preserve our free, democratic everyday life, and therefore it is absolutely crucial to stop Islamisation. I would like to make the following on behalf of the Danish People's Party and New Citizens: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that there is an Islamisation of Denmark, which means that Danes risk being involuntarily subject to Muslim rules and that Muslims who want to break out of a cultural parallel universe are maintained in it. The Folketing demands that the government take stronger action to counteract and reduce Islamisation, including focusing on asylum arrests, repatriations, expulsions, the dismantling of parallel societies and on maintaining and strengthening traditional Danish and Christian culture, so as to be better at fighting and avoiding Islamisation everywhere. • V 11).
ParlaMint-DK_20201112160741	Thank you. I would like to ask for the proposal for adoption. Marie Krarup It has been delivered once). It's okay, great! Then I'll tell you that for the moment, sir. Marcus Knuth five times on our computer up here as signed in to want a comment. There is obvious trouble with our IT system, and that is why we have to deal with it, because if anyone wants to speak to Mrs Krarup or other rapporteurs until this is done, just give me some sign of old-fashioned fashion, I will take note of it and then you can have the floor afterwards. That is why I am now asking whether there are any comments or questions to Mrs Krarup here in the first place. That does not seem to be the case. I would like to thank Mrs Krarup. Then we will have to move forward in the rapporteur's round, and that is with Mr Beazley. Rasmus Stoklund from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112160847	Thank you, President. Especially on the left side of the Parliamentary Chamber, we often focus on problems that are rooted in something material, conditions that affect people's economy and thus their ability and freedom to create the life they want. In the toolbox, it is the distribution policy, social policy, financial and employment policy that we have often put our trust in for decades. The starting point for us is that people who have been unlucky in life need help so that they can again master their own lives. Our starting point is a belief that the individual would like to be part of the community that seizes us when we fall, but for decades we have been challenged on our side of the Assembly Hall. Our belief in the community-oriented, pragmatic and secular human being has since the Aliens Act of 1983 been challenged by an excessive group originating in the Great Middle East which had physically moved to Denmark but remained mentally in the Muslim world. Many have adapted and contribute in the labour market, in association, etc. That is good, and that group may have come, precisely because they wanted to leave countries, dominated by Islamic values, Sharia, dictatorship. It could, for example, be done. be Iranians who to this day yearn for the time before the fall of the Shah. But another group, too large a group, has caused problems. As Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance has previously pointed out in this Chamber that we could, unfortunately, close the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration if it were not because the conflicts created by the great Middle Eastern immigration are a great deal. Migration to Denmark from the Middle East has been too large for decades. The problem is self-enhancing. When there is already a large minority in Denmark from a given country, it is easier for more to follow in the wake, and every time it happens, people seek together, and instead of being integrated into society, too many become part of the parallel society. When more migrants arrive in a community, there is slowly greater distrust between minority and majority. At the same time, the indigenous population is pulling out, going out less, having fewer friends and watching more TV. A major study by Professor Robert D. Putnam of the United States shows this, and Putnam's example once again puts a heavy emphasis on the fact that it is the worst-off Danes and their children who are allowed to pay the price for decades of failed alien politics. In addition, research shows that, especially among Muslims, there is a tendency for self-segregation. It sharpens the problem of the continuous influx and the attitudes and values which are contrary to the majority. Although we in Denmark are 5.8 million people, even smaller entry figures will give parallel societies new nourishment and counter the fight against the existing parallel societies. Every time we succeed in our efforts, we run the risk of being turned back. The differences between the majority population and people from the Middle East are generally large. The case was another, if it was Swedes, Germans or Norwegians who resided in Denmark, and this picture is confirmed by both statistics and value surveys among people of different nationalities. A fundamental difference between the majority population and the vast majority of refugees and migrants who find their way to Denmark is the importance of religion, the importance of Islam. The Danes are generally not particularly believers, and Christianity plays an infinitely small role for the population in everyday life. A study from the Pew Research Center shows that Denmark is the second smallest religious country in the world. This is quite the opposite in the countries from which migrants come. And when you see the world through very different prisms, it is no wonder that clashes and conflicts arise. Part of the problem is that there is a lack of self-regulation • parents who do not raise their children or do not distance themselves from compatriots who look down on Danes, have sympathy or understanding for terrorist acts. If you do not speak up as a minority, you strike a wedge between the majority and the minority, and it slowly gets better. The problems are big, and it's about to be the last call if we're gonna solve them. Already today, the proportion of Muslims in Denmark is so large that they are a political power that one can speculate on appealing to. It makes some cynical when they, for example. Trying to make it sound as if other parties have a general dislike of Muslims. I shall end my speech by saying: the task of crowding out Islamism is more difficult than the problems we have faced before mass immigration and the tools I mentioned in my introduction: distribution policy, social policy, etc. We must reduce immigration strongly, we must make demands and we must ensure consistency. People with an immigrant or refugee background have a duty to take our freedoms to themselves and to renounce problematic values where you look down on women and Danes or think Islam is above democracy. I have a proposal for adoption, supported by the Radical Left, so on behalf of the Social Democratic Party and the SF I shall present the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament believes that it is extremely worrying that Islamist forces are trying to turn Muslim fellow citizens against Denmark and thus divide our society. The Folketing considers it essential to deal with extreme Islamism and the challenges associated with it in order to safeguard the cohesion and democracy of Denmark. - - - - - - - - - - - -
ParlaMint-DK_20201112161418	The proposal for adoption has been duly submitted and will be included in the further negotiations. Now our IT system works again, so you just press the list of speakers. There are three who have so far pressed in, and the first who did so is Mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112161432	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund for a really, really good and nuanced speech. I also took note of what the rapporteur said in relation to indigenous Iranians who want an Iran from before the priesthood; I think there are many Iranians in Iran who agree very much with that, if you have been there, and that is actually a very interesting experience. But I also took note of what the rapporteur said about Christianity and the importance of Christianity. When we had government power, we enrolled in the government base that Denmark is a Christian country, and this led to a great uprising, among other things. Mette Gjerskov of the Social Democratic Party, I think it was, thought it could not be written at all. And I think she even threatened to resign from the church. That is why I think that the Social Democrats sometimes talk a little with two tongues, because here and now in this debate we pay tribute to Christian values and the importance of Christianity, but at other times we do the opposite, for example. when we write in our government basis that Denmark is a Christian country. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112161531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112161532	First of all, thank you for those nice words. That's the good thing about these debates, that is, they're not just polemical, but that sometimes there are also some places where we can meet about a certain common quantity. But I think it is absolutely incontrovertible that Denmark is a Christian country, so, formbrog hangs just above Mr. Marcus Knuth's head, and it's a big cross that's the center of the blade. But that was not something I spent so much time talking about in my rapporteur's speech, because I think that is entirely certain. And one must also have followed extremely badly in history teaching when one was a child, if one is not aware that Denmark is characterized by Christianity, and that we have a long Christian cultural heritage • Ever since the monk Poppo's Ironbyrd convinced Harald Bluetooth that it was enough time to change from Asatro to Christianity.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112161627	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112161627-2	It's warming right into the bottom of my heart. But then I could have hoped that the Social Democratic Party would have written into the government base that Denmark is a Christian country. But since you do not have a government basis, it is, of course, a little difficult to write it in. Unfortunately, we saw during the election campaign that some red parties were fishing in Muslim environments, among others. a electoral meeting was held in the Mosque of Freden in Aarhus, where only red parties were invited and the mosque afterwards called for a vote on the Radical Left or the Enhedslisten. So the Social Democratic Party was involved. Is this something that we intend to do in the future in the Social Democratic Party, in other words to participate in electoral meetings in Muslim environments where only red parties are invited?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112161711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112161712	It is new to me that the Social Democratic Party participated. Actually, I didn't think we were invited either. And I should like to say that, although the questioner and some of his colleagues in the blue block sometimes have a desire to present the Social Democracy as if we are very left-wing about foreign policy, that is not the opinion I generally meet when I speak to people who represent different Muslim religions, for example. And I don't know about that debate. I was not aware of the presence of social democrats. I assume that it is during the last parliamentary election that it must have taken place, and I must be guilty of the questioner's answer, because I do not know anything about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112161746	Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112161747	I am glad that the Social Democratic Party today is in favour of strict immigration policy. It is not tight enough, but it is a step forward and one can see the problem of Muslim immigration. However, I am also sorry that there will be no proposals to combat Islamisation. Islamisation is that Danes are involuntarily subject to Muslim requirements, i.e. that you cannot show the Muslim drawings, that Danes are forced to participate in gender-separated swimming lessons, or that special rules are made for Muslim children for bathing, etc. after gymnastics, so it gradually dissolves. What is Social Democracy going to do about all these tiny things that change our everyday lives? And what will the Social Democratic Party do to strengthen Danish and Christian culture, so that one becomes better at resisting this insidious Islamization that is happening on all counts? So I did not hear anything about that in the speech, other than that you want to stop immigration, and that is really, really good, but that is far from enough in relation to the problems we have in that country.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112161859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112161901	But when it comes to the question of how to strengthen knowledge or belief in our cultural heritage, I strongly believe that we should have enough faith here that we are strong enough to carry on with ourselves. Here we also have a responsibility to take our children to museums or show them sights and tell them about our history etc. Every day Danish children learn in primary and secondary school about our history and cultural heritage, so I'm not so worried about that part. On the other hand, after all, the government has taken a number of initiatives to combat Islamisation. For example: there is legislation on the way to combat social control and to fight harder against it, in other words to combat the fact that there are people who are retained in marriages, religious marriages of minors, to send their children on re-educational journeys without having sufficient consequences. That is where we are now doing what we can to secure legislation. And there I think the arrow is pointing just as much the other way. It is legislation that could well have been adopted years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112162015	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112162016	I do not think enough is being done at all. We do not get support for the proposals we make to ban Muslim scarves in public institutions, to ban gender-separated swimming lessons, to make hallmarks, etc. etc. We are putting forward the proposals again, because we are trying again and again so that the Social Democrats will have the opportunity to vote 'yes' here in a short time. As regards the strengthening of Danish culture and Christianity in Denmark, the government has, of course, settled the commission set up to improve Christianity education in schools. So I do not see a government doing enough to resist Islamisation and strengthen Danish culture. I find that disappointing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112162100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112162101	Well, then, it is a political disagreement that we must acknowledge that we have. I know the church still has a very high membership figure. We have lots of cultural offers, we have lots of beautiful museums, we have good primary schools that teach Danish history and cultural heritage every day. If you have a very strong desire for Christianity to fill more in your everyday life, then it is probably something that must primarily be at your own expense, something you have to take care of yourself and where you have to go to church, etc. As I also referred to from this study, although we have Christian fundamental values that we have worn in us for many years, and we stand on a Christian foundation of history and cultural heritage, we are not such a thing in the daily very religious people.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112162203	Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112162205	Could the rapporteur say a few words about what these prayer calls, which we have increasingly experienced in Danish society, are a symbol of? What does the rapporteur think they are a symbol of?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112162224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112162225	To say that it is increasingly, I think maybe to take your mouth a little too full. I know there's been a single one that got a lot of publicity sometime in the spring, I think it was. It has always been agreed by a very large majority of us in this House that it is not a tradition that we want to have introduced into Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112162247	Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112162248	If the rapporteur and I are standing here again in ten years' time, would it be the rapporteur's guess that if we do not introduce a ban, we will not have any more prayer calls? So, does the rapporteur expect that this is not a challenge that will grow bigger? And if the rapporteur does not have the expectation that this problem will grow, can the rapporteur point to the other Western country, where at first we saw these noisy prayer calls in small and where the problem has not increased?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112162326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112162327	I don't have a country overview like that, but I would say that if we're back here in 10 years, then I guess something's gone wrong... that we still don't want prayer calls in Denmark. We don't want prayer calls in Denmark. After all, this government has begun to investigate how to behave if it becomes a growing problem. So what do you do? How can you make a ban? How can it be avoided that it also hits the ring with church bells, which are also formally a kind of prayer call? We do not want that. We want church bells, but we don't want prayer calls.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112162408	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112162409	Thank you very much and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. A few weeks ago I was in consultation with the rapporteur himself actually and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and the Minister for Business and Industry too. We discussed mosques, which were sneaked under the radar, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration said that Islam was to be a partner of the Danish people's government. Does the rapporteur also think so?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112162441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112162442	I do not remember the exact wording used by the Minister, but there I have enough confidence in the Minister to know that what he meant by it was certainly not that Islam should enter and play a role here in the Assembly. I think the Minister makes that clear on many occasions. He's got, uh... this famous quote, that if democracy and religion go into carambola, it is Allah who must give way. The Minister himself gave another example in his ministerial speech, where he said this about visiting a mosque, he takes off his shoes, but if we are out in the free society, he expects that it is not the imam who should think that he should dictate how we live here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112162528	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112162529	But does the rapporteur, as the Minister said in that consultation, believe that Islam should be a partner of the Danish people's government?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112162538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112162539	I think this is going to be a rather strange semantic discussion, but no, I do not want to use the wording that Mrs Mette Thiesen is proposing here immediately. However, I believe that there is room for Islam in Denmark in a reformed version. And that is what I think is our great challenge, that is to say, there are some of those who, in the absence of better words, are moderate cultural Muslims who are in favour of democracy and the free world, who, like the tone-setting and getting better at responding when somebody is using Islam to carry out terrorism or criminal acts or anti-social behaviour in other ways. There we have to find a way to welcome the Muslims who want Denmark, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112162630	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party. Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112162641	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for taking the initiative that we can have this debate in Parliament. In recent times I have found myself depressed on several occasions in a way that I have rarely been before. I usually have such a positive view of the world. But when I have these moments of depression, it's because my thoughts revolve around Islamism. We know these new examples from abroad with beheadings and terrorist attacks, and although no one in Denmark has had his head chopped off, the underlying causes are also found at home. We're now seeing these crazy Sharia contracts that keep women in violent marriages. We're seeing these noisy prayer calls spreading. The other day we heard about a lecturer from North Zealand who got so many threats that she had to get a secret address. Then what did she do? What was her sin? Yes, she has written on Facebook that she intended to show a Mohammed drawing in her teaching. And it is not many days since we witnessed Hizb ut-Tahrir demonstrating at Kongens Nytorv in the heart of Copenhagen under their black tabs. So I do not think that, if you want to maintain your credibility, you can conceal the fact that we also have massive challenges with Islamism at home. And we have done so because for decades there has been an excessively lenient immigration policy which has done damage to our country. This has meant that we now have a whole lot of people here in Denmark who do not subscribe to the same values as the rest of us. They swear to values that belong in the Middle East. And in reality, it should not be so hard to say: those values are worse than our values, that's what makes the West worth fleeing to. That is why it is also beyond my comprehension when people who have fled from these places are trying by all means to transform our Western society into exactly what they themselves have gone away from; I do not understand it. And it's not just a single extremist it's a bigger problem. Almost four out of ten Danish Muslims believe that Danish law should be built in whole or in part on the Koran. At the same time, 42 percent is. of immigrants in Denmark either fully or partially agree that religious criticism should be banned. And that's not even the scariest thing, because the numbers are getting worse for the descendants. So the attitudes of those born here in Denmark become more extreme. It scares me. But what do these numbers mean? We can just stop printing drawings of Muhammad so you can hear in the debate that more people are thinking. What does it really change in my everyday life not to show a Muhammed drawing? Well, that doesn't change much. And that kind of thinking just leads us as a society to move quietly in the wrong direction. Then we stop showing Mohammed drawings, because what difference does it really make? Then we stop complaining when Muslim fathers want sex-separated swimming, because what difference does it really make that my daughter doesn't swim with the boys? And all of a sudden we have moved so much that in Denmark we experience situations as in Paris, where there are Islamists on street corners and women who, in their opinion, wear too short dresses. And then you can ask the same question: What difference does it really make for you to wear a slightly longer dress? We will never go there! And that is why we must react strongly to such a phenomenon as Sharia Council, and we must be much clearer in spit than we have been in the past. And let me therefore quote my good party colleague Mads Fuglede, who wrote in a Danish daily newspaper the other day: When you come to Denmark from a country in the Middle East, you have yourself and your culture and beliefs with you. That's gotta be it. At the same time, however, it must also be the case that we have a responsibility to adapt to our values and standards. That responsibility is not equally shared, but only one that rests with us. The last part is actually the most important thing, because integration does not go both ways. It is a myth. Of course, the meeting between people must be mutual, but it is not the integration process. It is not about bending one another; it is not about finding a compromise; it is not about building a bridge. It is about whoever comes here crossing the bridge that already exists. And if you do not want to cross the bridge that states that the Constitution is above the Koran, that drawings do not lead to violence, that Sharia Council does not dictate the agenda, then it is not Denmark that you should call home. For those countries, it just isn't Denmark. That is why we need to tighten up; we need to pursue a strict and consistent policy of aliens; we need to put an end to loud prayer calls; we need to take tough action against Sharia Council; we need to stop massive social control. And concrete initiatives must be taken... talk is not enough. So thank you very much for taking the initiative on this very important debate. I think that's good. But I have to admit, I'm still sad. And then I would like to read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Left, Conservative and Liberal Alliance: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament believes that it is very worrying when Islamist forces are trying to undermine the free and democratic foundation on which Denmark is built. Examples such as Sharia Councils, threats to teachers who will show Mohammed drawings, and women's oppressive divorce agreements are all an expression of extremely negative developments, and we must respond strongly to this. Parliament notes that, unfortunately, the government is reluctant to intervene, even when it comes to, for example: Noisy prayer call. Parliament therefore calls on the government to take immediate action to counter this trend. • V 13)
ParlaMint-DK_20201112163331	Thank you. There are two who have signed up for short remarks. The first is Mrs. Marie Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112163337	Thanks for the speech. That sounded in the speech - but not so much in the proposal for adoption as if the Left would actually support all the proposals we are making, for example. to prohibit Muslim scarves in Danish public institutions, to prohibit gender-separated swimming lessons, to ensure that halal meat is labelled, that halal meat is not included in standard menus in public institutions, etc. etc., in other words, proposals concerning all the areas where Danes are currently at risk of being subject to Muslim rules. So we look forward to the Left voting in favour as well. I also think it is good that the Left is ready to take action to support the teachers who will teach the Mohammed drawings. It is a matter of course that one should be able to do so in Denmark. I did not hear the Left say anything about supporting Danish Christian culture. I'd like to hear what you're going to do there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112163435	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112163436	Thank you for receiving the speech I thought it was welcomed. For the Left, it is essential to support the Christian cultural heritage that we have in Denmark, and that is also why, when we were in government, we wrote into the government base that Denmark is a Christian country, because it is. I also know that there was a dialogue between our former Minister for Education and among others. The author's party in relation to the discussion on Christianity education in primary school. I understand that there are some legal challenges to making this happen, but I would like to admit in private that I remember from my own primary school that I thought it was a challenge that every time we had Christianity lessons, all the brown children rose up and went out and the class. It was a little absurd. I do not think that my primary school was the only one where it happened, and I do not think that this will help the integration process. That is why I think it would be a good thing if we could work together. The question then is how to do it, because I know that there are some legal challenges in relation to, for example. to get people with Muslim background to participate in religious and Christian education in primary school, but I am convinced that this is something that we will look at positively.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112163547	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112163548	It just needs a change of law, and we also propose that it be implemented so that it is not voluntary to participate in Christianity education. But as I hear the Left, one is simply willing to finally start using the legislative weapon to ensure that Danes are protected from Islamicism in everyday life, so that one is not forced to be taught by elementary school teachers with scarf on, to participate in gender-separated swimming lessons, to eat halal food, or whatever else might be.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112163628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112163629	I did not make a speech in which I sneaked up all the Danish People's Party's proposals and said that we would support them. However, one of the points on which I know that the Left and the Danish People's Party agree is, in relation to the discussion we have also had of a couple of rounds, I think in this Chamber about having some legislation put in place against these noisy prayer calls that are spreading. I think that is an important thing, because it is not something that belongs in Denmark. In Denmark it is the church bells that call to prayer, and not the minarets, so we hold on to that, and I think that this is not the last time we have this discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112163705	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112163708	Thank you so much. Yes, it's nice when the bourgeois bloc can meet for a new bourgeois proposal to ban prayer calls. It's always a pleasure. I think that was a very good speech made by the rapporteur on the Left. I have heard the rapporteur say all the right things many times in the past, but then vote a little contrary to what the rapporteur then said. But I would just like to hear briefly: Does the Left believe that Islam should have an influence in Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112163738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112163740	First of all, thank you for the rose. I also noticed that there was a small stabbing pill where it was said that it was a good speech, where I said everything right, but then I voted everything wrong. But I think my speech started by saying that I am then an optimistic person, so I choose to take the first part for me. In relation to the debate on Islam, I should like to say that there should be no doubt about that. There has to be. But having said that, you might as well add afterwards that we are experiencing massive challenges with Muslim parallel societies around us, and one of the topics that the Danish People's Party mentions in the question today is these Sharia Councils that have arisen I know that they have been seen in Copenhagen, Aarhus and Odense, and probably elsewhere that have not been in the media's spotlight yet. And to take action against it, we would very much like to. Such Sharia councils should not have any influence in Danish society, because it is really one of the worst things I can think of.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112163848	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112163850	Thank you. That was not actually quite a hundred percent answer to my question. We therefore agree that one must think and believe what one wants at home, but does the Left believe that Islam should have an influence in Danish society? I am not only thinking here of parallel societies and Sharia contracts, but should Islam generally influence Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112163917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112163919	Thank you for the question. I think it is essential to get the debate traced in somewhere, so it is crystal clear what the Left thinks. Left believes that there should be room to be Muslim in Denmark. We have freedom of religion. This also means that a person who is a Muslim can come to the Folketing and thereby gain influence. We think that is okay if the person has been elected into the Folketing. There is freedom of religion in Denmark. We stand firm on that. However, it is important to emphasise that they do not make us close our eyes to the problems of Muslim parallel societies, where, for example, we have to look at the situation. Sharia Council exercises what the rapporteur is asking about: influence, and we would like to see that influence removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112164002	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Morten Dahlin from the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left. Mrs. Samira Nawa, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112164010	Thank you. When I had to prepare for this question debate, I quickly ran into some challenges, because I understood from the wording of the question that the Danish People's Party would like to discuss the increasing Islamisation of Denmark and otherwise discuss how we can reverse that development. Of course, I fully agree that Islam is rarely something that the Danish People's Party talks about in particularly positive terms, although it seems to fill quite a lot in the party and perhaps even more than for most Muslims. Fortunately, we have a constitution that, with its § 67, ensures that: "Citizens have the right to unite in society in order to worship God in the way that agrees with their beliefs, but that nothing is taught or done that conflicts with morality or public order. ▪ Of course, this constitutional right also applies to fellow citizens who have religious beliefs other than, for example, the Christian. After all, we have all agreed to this by signing that we want to keep the Constitution. After all, we cannot change it on Thursday afternoon in the Chamber, fortunately. I therefore also assume that stopping the rise in Islamism for the questioners is not about getting fewer people to be able to cultivate their faith and thus restrict religious freedom. At the moment, in my speech, I have said a few times about increasing Islamism, and one might think that I have then bought the premise that this is the case. I haven't. I am still in the process of understanding what that means. In the Radical Left we have not noticed this so-called increasing Islamisation. On the other hand, what we have noticed is the opposition of the Danish People's Party, sometimes fierce opposition, to the integration of citizens with a non-western background, with a Muslim background. And then suddenly there is an increase in Islamism, in fact everywhere: it is in the education system where young people with a non-Western background have overtaken young people with a Danish background; in the labour market where non-western immigrants and descendants stood for 44 per cent. of the growth in employment in 2013-2018; in cultural life, where songwriters such as Isam B and Özcan Ajrulovski contribute to our common song tax with a beautiful text about keeping Ramadan in Copenhagen; in the social debate, where Danes with minority roots engage • some even find their way into politics and end up taking the country's most distinguished platform on such an ordinary Thursday afternoon in the Parliament Hall. If this is the kind of successful integration that the Danish People's Party sees as increasing Islamisation, then I have to say that we are not afraid of doing so in the Radical Left; we pay tribute to it. In fact, we expect and demand it from our fellow citizens. So this is where it stops? So there's nothing more to say? I do not think so, because, as the Minister rightly said, the presence of Muslims in Denmark or Islam in Denmark is not a problem. However, what needs to be addressed as a problem is extreme Islamism, radicalisation, repression and social control. And here I can say unreservedly that we take this seriously in the Radical Left. Of course, we cannot accept that anyone, either men or women, should be subjected to control and violence without the possibility of sufficient support to break with the oppressive environments. Fortunately, there are good and strong forces in the minority ethnic environments who are stubbornly working to prevent parallel societies, radicalisation and negative social control. These are good forces that fight for equality and citizenship and fight against anti-citizenship. We must support and cherish these forces because they are an enormous asset with their great knowledge of the local environments. In the Radical Left, therefore, we have set aside 31 million for our draft budget. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been drawn up by the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment and for the excellent work done by the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment. The Group of the European People's Party supports the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr von der Vring on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Rasmus Stoklund read earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112164501	Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112164504	Thank you very much. I would say that I am stunned to hear the rapporteur say that the Radical Left has not discovered the increasing Islamisation of Denmark. So, back in the parliamentary elections a year and a half ago, as I mentioned before, Fredens Mosque in Aarhus invited only red parties to the electoral meeting. Afterwards, the Mosque of Peace, about which there have been quite a lot of controversy in advance, recommended all the Muslims they now have a network to vote on the Radical Left or on the Enhedslisten. For me, everything else is just a sign that the Radical Left is increasingly a voice for the Danish mosques. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112164546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112164548	No, I don't want to put it that way. What the rapporteur, on the other hand, points out is a population group which I assume this is how it is perceived that it has not previously taken part in elections or has been invited to debate meetings. I actually think there may be an increase in democratisation. And in relation to who is being invited, I do not think that it is here in the Chamber that we should decide who should be invited to what. I have been lucky enough to have been invited to the trade union movement's discussions at one point, and I was the most blue one there, and I do not think they called for a radical vote to be taken afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112164627	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112164628	So the rapporteur believes that it is an example of increased democracy when a mosque like the Mosque of Peace invites only red parties and says to the New Civil, Danish People's Party, Liberal Alliance, Conservative and Left: you are not welcome; and then, when you recommend only to vote on either the Enhedslisten or the Radical Left is a sign of democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112164646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112164647	What is certainly a sign of democracy is that there are people who are engaged and who are stacking electoral debates on their feet. In relation to the specific event that Mr. Marcus Knuth talks about it, I don't know about it. What has been debated and how it has been debated, I do not know, but that
ParlaMint-DK_20201112164717	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112164719	It's sad to hear such a speech. But of course it must be nice to live in such a parallel universe without problems. You must be happy there with your pink glasses, and I don't know what drugs, maybe. However, in reality there are problems, and there are problems that need to be resolved, even though the rapporteur does not see them at first sight. So what will the rapporteur do to ensure that ordinary Danes do not become subject to Muslim living rules, as we unfortunately see it around, i.e. gender-separated swimming lessons, which are drawn down all over, special dietary rules, other days off, that you loop Christmas so as not to offend Muslims etc.? What will the rapporteur do in these areas? What will the rapporteur do to strengthen Danish culture so that we avoid this kind of Islamisation?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112164826	Before the rapporteur is allowed to reply to that, I should just like to point out that under no circumstances are his colleagues in the Parliamentary Assembly accused of taking drugs or illegal drugs. It won't be tolerated from up here. Then I give the floor to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112164845	With that in place, I would like to make another small correction. My glasses aren't usually pink, they're magenta. That's the color we usually have. I do not regard the issues mentioned by Mrs Krarup as problems and challenges. We have a universal value in Denmark, but I also experience it as a Danish value... the freedom to live our lives differently. Where I can see problems, and I mentioned that in the speech, for example. with negative social control in some parallel societies, and there, of course, we need to take initiatives, and there are actually very many good forces that already work out there and have established relationships. We in the Radical Left think that we can strengthen them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112164935	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112164936	But the problem is that freedom can be abused. Well, we've seen it with the Muhammad crisis, and we've seen it in France with this horrible incident. You have to be wary of that. The Radical Left bears a very, very heavy responsibility for the dissolution and destruction that has taken place in Danish society and for the parallel societies that have unfortunately arisen because they have supported a mad immigration policy. But what will the Radical Left do to make sure that, for example, we do not lose sight of the fact that we are not in a position to do so? Can you safely teach the Mohammed drawings at school without being threatened?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112165017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112165018	The tragedy in France mentioned by Mrs Krarup is precisely a tragedy; it must also be emphasised from up here. As I mention, there are some challenges with some things in some places and they need to be addressed. We have to do this in a united Parliament, and I am standing up here on behalf of the Radical Left and addressing the fact that there are some problems. We have seen in Berlingske how women sign divorce contracts and cannot get out of it and certainly cannot see their children if they want a divorce. This is a problem that needs to be resolved. Therefore, when it comes to bathing curtains and halal slaughter and halal marking, as Mrs Krarup has mentioned to previous rapporteurs, this is not something we are experiencing as a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112165111	Then there is no one else that has been written in for short remarks to Mrs Samira Nawa. It's SF's turn. Mrs. Halime Oguz, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112165120	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for calling this inquiry debate, where we will be discussing the increasing Islamisation in Denmark. In Denmark we have one constitution, one state and one legal system. Everyone has to respect that. Nothing is more valuable than fighting for our democracy, freedom of expression, the rule of law and gender equality. I'm gonna fight for that all the time that lives in me. All the more disgraceful it has been recently to see how certain imams have stabbed women in unwanted marriages or given them some divorce contracts that have tied them on their hands and feet. This has all been done in accordance with principles which we should not, in principle, live by here in our free world. I have been fighting extremism and negative social control for a long time, violating women's freedom and the right to control their own lives in particular. But again and again we see how it is taking place in the environments we are talking about here. For all who feel that they have the right to dictate what others should feel, what they should wear, who they should be seen and sleep with, where they should live, and how they should live their lives, we must therefore make it clear: In Denmark you are master of your own life, whether you are a man or a woman. Recently, through the social media, I have been able to see that several women in the public debate are withdrawing from expressing themselves about negative social control because of fear of reprisals. It is simply so shameful. For the most beautiful thing about Denmark is that we can discuss and problematize everything without having to fear for our lives or to get the family involved in honor-related conflicts. Our freedom of expression and the beauty of being able to lead disputes to debate are put to the test. Some of those who want to keep the negative social control alive and to use women in a larger game, which is about maintaining parallel societies with all their sad and feudal standards, are quite active and there are no limits to what they are capable of. This is among other things. to use references to people's private family relationships in order to silence women. The negative social control can be quite sophisticated, and if you can intimidate a person by involving some of his family members, you do so. It must be stopped immediately. However, I would like to stress that in this debate it is important to distinguish between Islamists and ordinary law-abiding Muslims, because there are some who are affected by the conditions that I have just described, these are just ordinary law-abiding Muslims, including women and children. And how did it come to this? I am not trying to place responsibility on the political wings. I believe that this is about the fact that, as a society, we have not been clear enough in our values. We have bowed to too much, we have relativised, taken special account, etc., and all this has kept minorities from remaining minorities. That approach has probably been well-intentioned, but not appropriate. Then I would say that the SF supports that proposal for adoption, Mr. Rasmus Stoklund was just reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112165531	Thank you. There are three inscribed for short remarks. The first is sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112165534	Thank you. I would just like to congratulate the rapporteur on the many battles and readings, and so on, that have been made by the rapporteur. I think it is very brave on a personal level, and I think it is wonderful that the SF recognises the problems that exist, with Islamisation and with some of the Islamic environments around Denmark. I wish that the Radical Left also opened its eyes and saw some of the issues that the SF sees. At least it would look like a red block. But it was actually just a praise to the rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112165608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112165609	I would like to thank you for your kind words, and I would like to stress that it has always been important for the SF to fight against anti-democratic forces, the oppression of women. It has been very, very important for the SF, and it is now too, so thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112165633	Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112165635	Like Marcus Knuth, I would like to thank you for your speech, which I thought was very sensible both in terms of the fight against social control, but also in terms of the fact that we have not been clear enough. Immigrants have not been shown where the closet should stand and there is no room for Muslim values in Denmark, only in the private sphere, not in the public space. I think that is very, very important. However, I would like to put a question to the rapporteur. When you talk about social control, it is very directed towards women, and I agree that in Muslim culture they are the weak sex. It is the other way around in us where we are the strong sex. But there is one place that affects both men and women, and it is the apostasy from Islam and, at least, when it comes to those with whom I have been in contact, it has in fact been men who have had problems first and foremost when they have left Islam. Does the rapporteur not agree with the Danish People's Party that it is necessary to intervene here and protect apostate Muslims who are being persecuted by their previous networks?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112165745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112165746	In the SF, we agree that no one should be subject to or subjected to a certain belief, religion, ideology or whatever. And, of course, these people need protection... that's clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112165803	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112165805	I'm glad to hear that. What about the other proposals made by the Danish People's Party, that is to say that we believe that we should be clearer about where the Union should stand? The whole thing about being very clear in its culture, strengthening Danish culture and so on: In public institutions, it is Danish culture that rules no Muslim scarves, no halal serving, no gender-separated swimming lessons, etc. etc. I assume the SF will support that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112165836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112165837	What I want to say is that we in the SF are opposed to religious oppression and that some must be imposed on something specific, and that applies to all beliefs, whether it be Islam or Christianity. In the SF, we are in favour of freedom of religion.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112165904	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112165906	Thank you to the rapporteur for an interesting speech, and thank you to the rapporteur for the debate, and the rapporteur also knows that I believe that a general public debate on these issues, which I am absolutely convinced will both qualify the debate and hopefully bring the political solutions to a better place. I am convinced that Denmark would be a worse place, and also that our foreign policy would be worse if the SF decided, but that is why Mrs Halime Oguz's kick-in could be extremely valuable. One of the issues addressed by the rapporteur in his speech, which the rapporteur is also generally concerned with, is the great challenge we face in terms of social control. And I don't think there's any quick fix there's not a way to just solve this. But one of the things that the Left has proposed is that we tighten up the criminal code so that if you commit a crime with an element of social control, it is an aggravating circumstance, just as you know from hate crimes. Could it be a suggestion that SF could see itself in?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112170004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112170005	Thank you. And thank you for the question, but especially for the recognition and the praise. Before the Left, the SF has come up with a proposal that we will make it a criminal offence to exercise negative social control, like physical and psychological violence.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112170030	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112170032	I have noted that, and I think that is a sympathetic proposal. What the Left's proposal is about is ensuring that if you commit any crime in relation to social control, it will be an aggravating circumstance, just as it is today, for example. is also an aggravating circumstance in committing violence in the form of a hate crime against a sexual minority or an ethnic minority; that is to say, we have written social control into the penal code, so that whatever crime you commit, if it is committed in relation to social control, it becomes an aggravating circumstance and therefore allows for a higher punishment. Can the SF support that proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112170109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112170110	I would say that I am not going to stand here and deal with a motion for a resolution from the Left. But what I want to say is that we are open to looking at all the initiatives that can help to combat negative social control. Because I think that is a very strong signal in relation to what we are going to accept in Denmark. And it is precisely as I said in my speech that there is a firm framework for what kind of country we are and what kind of values it is based on. And that is precisely how some legislative proposals and resolutions help to clarify, so we would like to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112170157	Then we thank Mrs Halime Oguz of the Socialist People's Party. There is no representative from the Enhedslisten, so I shall give the floor to Mr. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party. It must be exciting to hear about Mr. Marcus Knuth can say hello from the Enhedslisten. Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112170221	Thank you very much, President. I wish I could greet you from the Enhedslisten and tell you what I think they should do on our behalf or vice versa. I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for putting forward this very good proposal on increasing Islamisation. I would like to start by saying that, unlike the Radical Left, we recognise the rise in Islamism. I'm surprised how you can walk around in this society and not see the problems that I think many of us take very seriously. Conservatives' view today is that the things we have debated and presented are also a good example of the fact that we share the concerns of the Danish People's Party. One of the issues that has been raised in the media is that of our own Conservative Councillor Roya, who has a Danish-Iran background. Following her ordinary divorce, if you could call it that here in Denmark, she was called by the Iranian Embassy, who said that if she didn't also get divorced in the Iranian-supported Imam Ali Mosque, Iran as a country wouldn't recognise her divorce. This is crazy, because it means de facto that she cannot go back and visit family and friends in Iran. There have been examples of Sharia Councils which are de facto used as a kind of religious parallel society for the Danish rule of law etc. etc. I have also taken the example, which I asked both the Radical Left and the Social Democrats, of how mosques go in and interfere in democratic development during election campaigns. I find that very, very problematic. Then there is also the example of mosques who have either made or plan to make noisy prayer calls in Arabic in addition to the Danish roofs. In fact, I had written here that I was very sorry that the Minister did not want to do anything. I am, in fact, pleased about this and the Minister is to be commended that the Minister has at least started work to see how the Minister and the Government might respond to this. That is certainly a step in the right direction. What is not a step in the right direction are the asylum facilitations that the government brings with it, such as that it has become easier to stay in Denmark, even if there is peace in your home country. Whether it is to accommodate its red support parties, I do not know, but it is certainly a sign of a step in the wrong direction. I would also like to say, as I said to the rapporteur for the SF, who is not here anymore, that I think it is wonderful when you see parties moving politically I have also moved myself politically, at least geographically and going out and being so critical of some of the problems with social control in some of the Muslim communities, as the rapporteur for the SF did instead of just saying, as radicals, that there are no problems here and that you cannot see the Islamisation that exists. I think that's too bad. So I would just like to make a request to the Minister, and it is: thank you for the measures that have been taken. We believe that even more needs to be done, both in relation to asylum tightening and in relation to Muslim prayer calls from mosques. Otherwise, we risk our children or grandchildren not knowing Grandma's colonial garden house, as the Minister described in his speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112170542	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. No one has chosen to put questions to Mr. Marcus Knuth, so we move on in the rapporteur's line. Now it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112170559	One must have lived under a stone in Denmark if one has not been confronted with or become aware of the increasing Islamisation. The foundation of our lovely Danish society erodes under our feet, while Islam is sneaked under the guise of diversity and cultural enrichment. Nothing could be more wrong and destructive. Islam is in opposition to everything we tax in Denmark. Islam is in direct opposition to Danish values such as freedom, democracy and gender equality. Since the landscaping law in 1983, there has been a slow but probably a slip. Mosques are shooting up in several cities, the women's oppressive Muslim scarf thrives in institutions and in schools and public workplaces, halal meat and gender-separated swimming are easily accepted, the immigrant gangs are shooting at the open street. Terror protection has become today's architecture. Police, rescue and home helpers meet with violence and vandalism in foreign tongues, and crime by people with Middle Eastern, foreign, or Arabic looks is daily literature in the local media. Freedom of expression is seriously threatened. In New Citizens we do not want to stand idly by while the foundations of our society are being destroyed. We will act. That is why we want to resolve the issue of foreign policy from the bottom up. There must be a total ban on asylum, criminal foreigners must be deported consistently and after the first sentence, all foreigners must support themselves, Danish citizenship must not be given to immigrants and descendants from Muslim countries, where we have statistical evidence that immigrants and descendants commit crime much more often than Danes when they come here. Islam must have no influence in Danish society. Islam should have no influence in Denmark. What you think and think at home is your own business, but Islam should have no influence in Denmark. Denmark is a Christian country. We have freedom of religion, but not religion. We shouldn't have that either. Danish culture, Christian culture must be maintained and strengthened, we must cherish Denmark • This is what we are chosen for by the Danes. In New Citizens we take it very seriously. Now is the time to act before it is too late and it is urgent.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112170903	No one has signed up for short remarks. The Liberal Alliance rapporteur is not here, so I shall actually give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112170927	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs from the parties for the debate here today. I think it has been a good debate where we have had some of the challenges and dilemmas that we face in Denmark as a result of extreme Islamism and social control, and where we have also turned the question of what can form the basis for successful integration and active citizenship in Denmark. There is no doubt that this is a difficult challenge, which today's debate also reflects. On the other hand, I think we can also see that we have come a bit along the way and that, if I am going to assess ■ agree on more than we were a number of years ago. On the one hand, Denmark is a democratic and inclusive society with room for many differences, different beliefs and perceptions of life. We have freedom of religion, we have freedom of expression, and these are constitutional rights, these are core values that we must not let go of. On the other hand, we must not close our eyes to the fact that we have challenges with extreme Islamism trying to undermine these very core values. And sometimes, and it may sometimes be the most provocative thing, they use exactly the same freedoms to undermine the very same freedoms and control others and put them in invisible prisons that can be difficult to escape from. We can, of course, never accept that, but I would also like to say that, after today's debate, I have no doubt that there is common ground here among all the parties in the Folketing. As I started the question debate by saying, we will probably be discussing these challenges for many years to come and, in the view of the government, we will have to keep a close eye on developments, take action when necessary when we get the ideas when we see the problems, and also pay attention to preventing radicalisation and social control as far as possible. In my opening speech, I mentioned some of the initiatives that are on the way. I do not think there is any need to repeat them here, but this is one of the things that is happening. to prevent anti-democratic donations to, inter alia, religious institutions in Denmark, to ensure tougher penalties when it comes to social control, where for example. are minors in some religious ceremonies or maintain people in marriages against their will, and to ensure that it is available to other people in Denmark what is being preached in religious institutions in Denmark. In those words, I would like to thank you for the debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112171152	No one has written in for short remarks, and so the negotiations have been concluded. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Tuesday 17 November. We shall postpone the sitting for five minutes. A minister is on his way to the next agenda item.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112171813	Then the Minister of Taxation is also appointed in the Parliamentary Chamber, and so we can resume the sitting. The debate is open. Sir. Troels Ravn of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112171900	Thank you. The draft law we are discussing here today is an extension of the period for the temporary reduction of the basic salary to ministers. The reason for this is that on 1 January 2011 a 5% reduction was introduced. The reduction was subsequently extended in 2012, 2015 and 2019. On 21 December 2020, the reduction of the ministerial bill expires, and we want to extend the period by another year in order to exercise wage restraint and to allow for further consideration and clarification of politicians' conditions. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112171937	Thank you. We are continuing in the rapporteur's line because no one has signed up to short remarks. Sir. Karsten Lauritzen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112171948	Thank you. In the Left, we are of the same opinion as the Social Democrats. It may be wise at this stage to continue with the reduction. Being a minister is like being a member of parliament, because it's not a 8-16 job. There is a great deal of responsibility, and there are also family costs. In view of these considerations, we think it is important that we get a fair and fair salary as ministers, as well as members of parliament, not least because, regardless of who has the power of government, we want it to be good people who are ministers, and that is why the level of wages must also reflect the responsibility and the work to be done. We believe that the current level of wages and pensions does. And I think that in some cases, when you look at what ministers are doing and what members of parliament are doing, we also have some desires to change remuneration. It will be discussed elsewhere. But basically, we do not think that the level of pay is unreasonable, but we recognise that it is important for the Folketing and also the government to exercise wage restraint. In particular, we believe that this government has not actually deserved an increase in wages, and that is not what has been proposed here, but that the temporary reduction is still being continued for one year, and that is why the Left supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112172124	Thank you, sir. Karsten Lauritzen. Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112172130	Thank you. I am standing here on behalf of the rapporteur in this area, but I have been told that I have to say that we can support this. We think it is fine to extend the reduction, but we would rather do so permanently for a period of government at a time, so that we do not have to spend time on this every November. But now I don't want to spend so much time, so it was a very short speech. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112172158	Thank you. In fact, I shall give the floor to Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde as rapporteur, but I am not allowed to do so, so we are pushing Mr Rohde. Jens Rohde in the back of the queue and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Halime Oguz from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112172219	Thank you. Since our usual rapporteur in this area, Mr. Jacob Mark, cannot be present at the first reading here, I shall briefly explain the SF's position on the draft law. In the SF, we believe, as a starting point, that the country's ministers should have a fair remuneration, as they have an important, hectic and time-consuming work. However, we are not in favour of giving them a de facto increase, as Mr. Jacob Mark has also spoken in the press. SF considers that the temporary ministerial reduction should be permanent. In addition, it makes good sense for us to postpone any adjustments to the remuneration of ministers until we have had a broader discussion on the remuneration and pension conditions of politicians. The SF can therefore support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112172312	Thank you. There isn't anyone from the Enhedslisten, so it's Mr. Knox. Marcus Knuth from Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112172325	Thank you, President. I am speaking here on behalf of our group chairman, Mai Mercado, and I can say that we also support the proposal here, much in line with what the Left has said. And in this context I should also like to welcome from the Radical Left it is a pleasure to say that they also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112172354	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. Then it's mr. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112172403	Thank you. New citizens support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112172410	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112172412	We would like to agree that ministers should have a remuneration appropriate to the great responsibility of a minister and the heavy workload that a minister has and the huge potential risks that a minister is running to get a bad reputation if the minister has made wrong decisions. For some, it can be disabling for the rest of working life if you have been a minister and have been self-inflicted or innocent in a windstorm that has made you look bad. So ministers need a proper remuneration. It can be discussed whether they have in the ordinary remuneration of ministers. I know that the heads of department in the ministries receive a salary about twice as high as that of the ministers, although the ministers are the heads of department heads. So that's a weird priority. It was then decided in 2011, under the impression of the measures that had to be taken to correct the economy in Danish society on top of the financial crisis, to say that then ministers can also do too little less, in solidarity with the remaining society, which also had to save. So a temporary reduction in the remuneration of ministers was chosen. The transitional period now runs in the ninth year and is now being extended, although we have long since come across the financial crisis, and it is not an indication that the rationale behind the reduction in the remuneration of ministers is still there; no, it is an indication that no governments have ever had the courage to say that the time of the low level of ministerial approval is now over and that we are now going back to the more normal ministerial recommendation. That is not the courage of this government either, but we in the Liberal Alliance do. We say that the financial crisis is over and that you can go back to the normal ministerial recommendation, as I know is about. 5% higher than this temporarily reduced ministerial fee. We vote as the only party in Parliament against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112172649	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112172657	Thank you for that, President, and thank you again for the almost unanimous support for the proposal, which, as has already been said, is an initiative to extend the period of temporary reduction of the basic salary of ministers by one year. For those who have not fully followed, and perhaps only now, it may be appropriate to say that on 1 January 2011 there was a temporary reduction of 5% in the ministerial bill, as Mr Tugendhat has rightly said. Ole Birk Olesen, as part of the recovery of Danish economy. This reduction in the Ministerial Decree was subsequently extended in 2012, 2015 and also in 2019, and the period of the temporary reduction of the Ministerial Decree then expires on 31 December 2020. The Government proposes that this temporary reduction in the basic salary of ministers should be 5%. shall be extended until and including 31 December 2021. The government therefore wants to see wage restraint maintained for the ministers. At the same time, the extension of the temporary reduction period allows what is also happening here in Things to look at and perhaps clarify the conditions of the politicians, and that is why, of course, the government also considers it appropriate that we await the discussions in the Folketing. However, thank you once again for the broad support for the proposal, which will then continue the temporary reduction of the ministerial bill until the end of 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112172850	Thank you for saying that to the Minister, and I will allow the Enhedslisten to come to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112172906	I simply do not think that the Minister should be cheated on the support of the Enhedslisten. I think that would be a boring day. So when it comes to doing something about politicians' privileges and something like that and restricting them, the minister has our backs, and I don't think he should be cheated on that. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112172925	Thank you. Then there is another rapporteur who would like to speak, and that is Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112172935	Now I just got the opportunity, and we support it, as Mr. Marcus Knuth was kind enough to greet the Radical Left and say the bill. But I completely share Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's fundamental considerations in this. If the government chooses to whip itself, let it whip itself. It has to do so in the first place. But this is such a very good example of the fact that when we conduct economic policy, we end up creating structural problems. There are several historical examples of this, so you can think about whether government ministers will ever return to normal wages. I don't know, but it's the government's own choice, and we shouldn't stop them from doing that. But there is certainly a point in that, as Mr. Birk Olesen mentions here. But now it is the government's own proposal, and for the time being it only affects a one-party government, and then we can accept the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112173040	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112173055	The debate is open. The first to speak is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, Mr President. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112173111	Thank you for that to the President and thank you for the debate. It is, of course, an annual event on a somewhat boring background, at least seen through social democratic spectacles. After all, some years ago we voted on whether we should have an opt-in system and be able to get fully involved in the work of combating cross-border crime, which Europol is also concerned with, but where a referendum voted against, and we have therefore reached an agreement, a parallel agreement, a third country agreement. We have then promised each other that we should follow up regularly on how the work of the Danish police is going, how our agreement works, how effective it is, where there are problems • what it means that Denmark is not fully involved in this. First of all, it can be said that the agreement made after the referendum was actually a pretty good agreement. There was a struggle with beak and claw in relation to getting as good an agreement for Danish police as possible. And we also believe in the Social Democratic Party that we have reached a good agreement. I would then like to take this opportunity to thank the Danish police very much for, it can be said, also with the flexibility it requires, actually doing effective police work in the framework that is possible with Europol and the agreement that Denmark has received. Unfortunately, however, this also has negative consequences, and it is not, of course, because we have to botanise in the dispute that is well-known from when we had the referendum debate. I even think I would say that we might also have a better deal than we had dared to hope. There was, in fact, a sensitivity, but there was also a hard fight to get that agreement. But there are some things that are more difficult for Danish police. Quite banal and we've talked about that many times... you still have to go through these liaison officers, which means it's a little bit more laborious. It takes a little more resources to make the listings in the common Europol databases used by the police. It is not, of course, because we have many examples of the fact that this has meant that police work has not been carried out, but it is also clear that the police are a place of scarce resources, and we know that there could be good use for them elsewhere if something could be released here. There are also some challenges about what is called QUEST, which is such a web application, I think one can say from the platform, although it is not entirely New Danish. It's about whether the cops on their cell phone can access an Internet-based version that can sort of search this information. So there are some things that have been a minor problem for some years, because the roll-out of this was delayed, but it has to be said that more and more countries are going to join it and it would also be beneficial for the Danish police if you could. Another discussion, as we can see from the analysis here, is something new about what is called high value targets, i.e. that one can identify particularly interesting people for a special effort. It is reserved for the members of Europol, and that is why Denmark will not be able to do it as a third party, as an outsider, but it is also clear that it requires more countries. In other words, it must be someone who is relevant to several countries, and so it may well be that you can motivate other countries to go into trying to propose this. Nevertheless, it is clear that it is those countries for which it is most important that will have the greatest incentive to do so. And if it is Denmark, then we should hope that some will lift our case. So I think that I and that is seen through social-democratic spectacles... all in all can say that we are of course happy with the agreement that has been made. We are pleased with the work done by the Danish police. We think they're doing a good job. We also believe that the Danish police are hampered by the fact that we are not in, but of course we respect that decision and the result of the referendum. And then, of course, like previous governments, we will continue to work to ensure that there are opportunities for either better agreements or reviews or adjustments, and of course we will always look at whether this is something that the Danish police would benefit from. But from here, to the end, a thank you for the work that is being done everyday out there on the streets and straits of the police, and a thank you to the National Police and the Ministry of Justice for the statement. Then we hope that it will continue to be the case that Danish police can actively participate in the investigation, although it is not from full and complete membership.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112173645	There are no brief comments, so thank you, Mr President. Jens Joel. The next rapporteur is from the Left. Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112173655	Thank you very much, and thank you to the Minister for that very thorough statement. The rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, unfortunately, has no opportunity to be in this debate, and that is why the Folketing has to settle for me. This is now the fourth time we have been standing in this Chamber and taking stock of the Danish police's relations with Europol. We do so, as the Socialist rapporteur also said, on the basis of the agreement reached by all parties of the Folketing on 12 December 2016, after a majority of the Danes had voted against changing the legal reservation. It is no secret that the Left would have preferred to have seen another outcome of the referendum on 3 December 2015, nor is it a secret that we are still blaming some of the "no' parties for having deceived the people on this issue. We are now once again faced with a statement in which the National Police black and white writes that Denmark's withdrawal from Europol has implications for the work of the Danish police. Already in 2017, when Denmark went from a full member of Europol to a third country, the National Police considered that in the near future Europol cooperation would develop in a way that would put Danish police significantly lower than the police authorities of the countries that are members of Europol. That is what we are seeing happening right now. The QUEST application, which was also mentioned by the Socialist rapporteur, is currently being implemented in seven countries, while the connection is imminent in another nine countries. This means that the police authorities of the countries concerned can now conduct searches in the EIS directly from their phone or tablet. If the patrol police in these countries are looking into a person they want to check on, which we must expect the patrol police to do at times, then they can easily and quickly find out if there is data on the person in Europol's registers. Unfortunately, Danish police do not have that option. Instead, if they encounter a suspect, they must call one of the four Danish-speaking Europol staff in Ejby who can search for them if the call takes place within normal hours of opening. Instead, the Danish police officers have come across the person at 8:00. 16.10, for example: say in connection with a check at the Danish border, they must call an employee in the National Police Department for international communication which via the SIENA system, an email system, contacts the head office in The Hague. It is therefore no surprise that the National Police Department writes in the statement that it is practically unmanageable for the patrol police to make systematic notices in the EIS, and that the notices will therefore be limited to the few cases where the police have a concrete suspicion that individuals, for example, are in danger of becoming involved. commit cross-border crime. It is also the opinion of the National Police that the lack of access to QUEST would significantly restrict the ability of Danish police to combat cross-border crime compared to the police in the other EU countries. I don't know about you in this Chamber, but I really think that's a worrying announcement. Another challenge identified by the National Police is Denmark's inability to propose high value targets. High value targets are defined as organised criminals who pose a major threat to crime for two or more Europol Member States and who commit crimes covered by Europol's mandate. In 2017, Europol therefore launched a concept for targeting and combating these targets. However, because of our status as a third country, Denmark cannot designate high value targets. The National Police state that it would be an advantage with great operational value if Denmark could be involved in the whole process of designating high value targets. Although it is generally the view of the National Police that cooperation with Europol works well within the framework of our agreement, the Danish police are facing some obvious challenges. Moreover, I find it very difficult to accept that Denmark may only participate as an observer in the meetings of the Management Board of Europol. I simply find it fundamentally wrong that Denmark should be sidelined as a third country. And it annoys me boundlessly that we cannot give the Danish police the very best conditions and tools to be able to look after all of us. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112174258	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112174301	Thank you. Some of the things that Mrs Ulla Tørnæs mentioned, I will go into in my speech, so I will not do that now. But I would really like to hear what the Left's vision is of European police cooperation in a situation where Britain is leaving the European Union. We have to assume this from Britain, and, as Ulla Tørnæs knows, Britain is the country that puts the most information into Europol's systems, and we are very dependent on that cooperation. Does the Left think that Britain can be turned into a sort of third-class country where they can pay, but at the same time can they be allowed to sit on the sidelines? Or does the rapporteur of the Left foresee that there will have to be a debate on how we organise European police cooperation, where, of course, what determines whether or not we can be involved is whether we meet a certain standard of legal certainty and that sort of thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112174403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112174404	Of course, legal standards must be met in order to be involved in joint cooperation, otherwise it is not at all relevant to share information and information. What I am dealing with here is the statement made by the National Police and the Minister to the Danish Parliament on Denmark's relationship with Europol. And if you read the statement, you will be able to see from this what these are real challenges, as the National Police point out, that the Danish police are living in their daily activities in order to avoid crime and also solve crime. And there I and the Left believe that Denmark and the Danish police would have been better off if we had been full members of Europol.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112174456	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112174456-2	Well, I shall come back to the report, but am I to understand that the Left has no vision of how European police cooperation should be organised in a situation where a number of countries are outside the European Union? In other words, it is not just a neighbouring country like Norway; it is also a huge country like Great Britain. Instead of standing back and looking back, as the Left does, and looking at the referendum that was lost because the theme was formulated so exceptionally badly, could one not look forward and see what opportunities it offers for us to have that discussion? And what is the Left's command in relation to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112174538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112174539	So, what is being negotiated in the Danish Parliament today is exactly the backwards, but at the same time it is also based on the backwards. For what are the conditions we would like the Danish police to have? We would like the Danish police to have the best conditions and framework to look after all of us, and we believe that, as a full member of European police cooperation, Europol, we would actually have, and unfortunately we are not today, because a majority of the Danish people voted no back in 2015. What it looks like in the future is a completely different discussion, and we will have the opportunity to take it another day.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112174622	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112174628	Thank you. Our rapporteur in this area could not be here today, so I shall pass on his comments in this speech. Soon it will be 5 years since the Danes voted to retain the reservation of law. Up to the vote, many scare pictures were brought up, but fortunately they did not bite the Danes, and we can be happy about that today. Because while we were threatened not to be able to participate in a common police cooperation, the report we are debating today shows that Denmark's cooperation is working well. I quote from the introduction of the statement: the Europol Agreement does not correspond to a membership of Europol, but the National Police considered, in connection with the conclusion of the Europol Agreement, that the agreement on a number of essential points is operationally satisfactory for the Danish police and that in the short term the agreement provides the Danish police with satisfactory access to Europol databases. That's good. Of course, those parties which five years ago wanted to abolish the reservation of law will probably be looking for problems. You will probably notice that it says "in the short term', and some may make a big fuss about the fact that there are more of the new Europol cooperation areas where Denmark cannot participate. They can then use this to regret that in 2015 the Danes held onto the reservation. But there's no real reason for that. Why was it now that the Danes had to hand over the full sovereignty of the entire legal policy to the European Union because we had to be part of Europol? That question has still not been answered by the EU parties to this day, and that is the point. Because it is still the same bad offer that the EU parties are making, and thus the same clear question that we ask: why should Denmark transfer power to the EU in the area of immigration law and justice, because we want the Danish police to be able to exchange information with Germany? That doesn't make any sense. If, at some point, the current agreement turns out to be outdated, it must of course be renegotiated, but transferring more power to the EU does not come up with the support of the Danish People's Party. We welcome the fact that the National Police see the cooperation today as fully satisfactory. Denmark has several Europol staff, two in Ejby and two in The Hague, and through them information and intelligence is exchanged, and that is good. For most parts of Danish police it is no different than before 2017. The fact that Denmark is only an observer on the board does not cause us much concern. The National Police consider that the post of observer has strategic operational value and that Denmark does not have the right to vote here is just the same as in the other areas where Denmark has reservations. We are pleased with that arrangement. We in the Danish People's Party are very concerned that Danish police have as good conditions as possible. This applies both here in Denmark and in cooperation with our allies, and that is why we are also concerned that this Europol agreement works optimally. We can see that today is the case, and that is actually good news. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112174945	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112174948	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I know that the Danish People's Party is very concerned about border controls, for example. In this context, I would like to ask whether the rapporteur believes that it strengthens or weakens the ability of the police to carry out effective border controls, that instead of being able to look up a potential criminal alien on a smartphone or tablet by typing in some European systems, it is necessary to catch him outside normal working hours, i.e. outside the period from 8 a.m. 8:00-16:00, to pick up his phone and first call the National Police to call The Hague, from where they will call the National Police, which will then call the patrol. For that is what is described here as practically unmanageable in reality. Does the rapporteur think that it has weakened or strengthened the police's ability to combat cross-border crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112175052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112175053	The police describe it as operationally satisfactory. We are satisfied with that; we think it is good. And we think it is grotesque to sell out of Denmark's sovereignty in order to have marginal improvements in those areas. So we're happy with it the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112175113	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112175114	So what the rapporteur says is that the rapporteur is quite satisfied that it is the view of the National Police that it is practically unmanageable when, in connection with the day-to-day patrol, you first have to call the National Police, who then have to call The Hague, who has to call the National Police, who has to call back the patrol, just to examine a car's license plate or the number of a weapon or something else that would be really effective for the police. Are these conditions entirely satisfactory for the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112175149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112175150	Well, I am absolutely sure that it could all be super, super effective if we laid down Denmark as a nation state and just made a European superstate. Then it would all slip in butter, because one should not ask one or the other body • one could just have another ruler in Brussels who then fixed it all. But that is not what we want. And we take note of the fact that the police themselves say it is operationally satisfactory. That is why we are pleased with that agreement and we are pleased that it is working.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112175215	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left. Here you go to the rapporteur of the Radicals, sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112175316	Thank you for the floor. Usually they say nothing new is good news. Unfortunately, this is not the case with this year's report on the situation of the Danish police in relation to Europol. It is therefore in this statement that the opinion of the National Police continues to be that Denmark's withdrawal from Europol has operational consequences for Danish police, namely operational consequences for the fight against cross-border crime, which are only increasing. No. 3 December 2015 has had major consequences, and they are getting bigger and bigger. For example, it was no that came on 3 December 2015, also a "no' to participate in all aspects of the meetings of the Europol Board. These may be items with classified content. It was also a 'no' to Denmark being able to take part in the work of proposing high value targets, which is to be able to propose particularly organised criminals which pose a significant threat to crime. It was also a no to Denmark being able to look up flexibly and flexibly in a system, the EIS, where the police themselves can search for individuals, criminal organisations or other. The police in Denmark cannot do that, because here the police have to contact a second-rate national expert, a so-called SNE, who can look up the system. That's when it's going on really smart and smooth, between 2:00 a.m. 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. 4:00 p.m. So, in the interests of flexibility, we must kindly ask the criminals to commit their crimes between the hours. 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. 4:00 p.m. If they do not stay within normal working hours, the police will have to contact the National Police, who will then call The Hague to get a person out of working hours. So let's hope the gangs stay within normal office hours. Thus, the Danish police cannot, with the same flexibility as the police in other EU countries, make notices in the EIS as part of the task of the patrol police. This includes, among other things: the special arrangements, for example, to delay and make it difficult to carry out border controls. And the National Police here state that in the view of the National Police it is practically unmanageable for the patrol police to make systematic announcements in the EIS via the National Police in connection with the day-to-day assignment. The no that came on 3 December 2015 was also a no that the Danish police can have easy access to the QUEST system. QUEST is what allows you to look up these systems with easy access, so you can do it on a tablet or smartphone, that is, the way we do it in 2020. Unfortunately, however, this is not possible, despite the fact that other Member States are in the process of implementing it. That's too bad. After all, we are currently debating police investigation tools and other things in connection with the police settlement, and this would really be something that could strengthen the police. So, unfortunately, nothing new is any good news this year either.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112175728	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112175729	I think that's a fantastic description, sir. Kristian Hegaard gives of the system that is directly taken from the Olsen gang or something like that. And it is clear that when you do something that is so foolish, it obviously has consequences. That's why I just wanted to ask you about sir. Kristian Hegaard could mention some specific examples where this molbo-like system, which is described here, has had a meaning. So, are there any concrete examples that this has had some negative consequences?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112175803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112175804	First of all, thank you for the nice words, especially with the Olsen Gang. I love the Olsen gang, so it's always good when it's mentioned, even though it's obviously not good that they commit crime. They were supposed to stop doing that, but then there wouldn't have been any good movies, and then it would have been really, really too bad. In relation to what is being asked, namely whether I can give a very precise example where it has had a consequence, one has to say that when the National Police finds that it is in practice unmanageable for the patrol police to make systematic notices in the EIS via the National Police in connection with the day-to-day assignment, it has consequences. That is beyond question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112175853	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112175855	I shall come back to that, but that just means that we have no examples.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112175902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112175903	But when the National Police say it is practically unmanageable in the day-to-day assignment, the consequences are beyond doubt. It is clear that I am not out in every patrol car and check every day how it happens, but I am sure that they are doing as well as possible with the tools they have. It is just a pity that they do not have the same tools as they do in the other Member States.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112175929	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Radicals, so we thank Mr. Kristian Hegaard. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112175944	I would like to start by thanking the Minister for Justice for this statement. After all, it reflects the fact that in the 2015 referendum, we said no to abolishing the legal reservation, and in the SF we recommended a yes at that time, and we did so because, among other things, we did so. was concerned that Denmark could still have full access to Europol. Now we have a special agreement and we are treated like a third country. Fortunately, as the report shows, it is also the view of the National Police that cooperation with Europol is useful and that it works reasonably well within the framework of the agreement, but it also shows that it has a number of operational consequences, both today and when we look forward to it. With the same flexibility as the police in the other countries, the Danish police cannot use the EIS, which is such a reference system, because it is unmanageable for the patrol police to make systematic notices via the National Police, and therefore simply restrict notices and requests in the system. The limitation of police access to search in the EIS delays and makes it difficult, for example. border control work and action against persons associated with the gang environment. In any case, I believe that there is a great risk of standing down at the border and a car passing by, you weigh very carefully how strong the suspicion of this car is before you go into this system, and I simply think that it will be very limiting to the desire to go that way. We also know that the lack of access to QUEST, when that system is fully implemented, will result in a very large reduction in police capacity to combat cross-border crime compared to the police force in other EU countries. Right now there are seven countries that have implemented that system, and nine more countries are close to doing so, so the work is in full swing. Another area where cooperation develops is in relation to the so-called high value targets; here it would be a clear operational advantage if Denmark could be involved in the whole process of identifying these high value targets. But, overall, you make it run with HIV and swings in the police around, but the restrictions mean something to the police in the long term, and we in the SF will, of course, follow a lot, and we also expect and hope that the government will eventually address these challenges that we face in this context. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112180238	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the SF rapporteur, and the next rapporteur is Mr. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112180250	Contrary to what was prophesied at the time, I will not start reading and quoting from the election campaign; I could, if anyone wants it, then things are going really well. As is stated on page 7 of the statement that we have received, it remains the opinion of the National Police that the scheme is generally operationally satisfactory. Well, what about the delays? After all, there are delays, and it is true that the National Police say that in practice everything else will take a little longer, but it also writes: "The National Police are not aware, however, that such a delay has had an impact on the outcome of specific cases or investigations. It remains the opinion of the National Police that the scheme is generally operationally satisfactory. So, yes, well, it's so hard to maintain the pessimism that may be the case in relation to the future; I can understand that, because there's a lot of things going on here, but just in relation to this, it might be overlooked. Then there's been talk that we can't help pinpointing these high value targets. But should we just hold on to what high value targets are? In other words, high-value targets are defined as organised criminals, which pose a major threat to crime for two or more Europol countries and which commit crimes covered by Europol's mandate, in other words serious things. A major crime threat for two or more countries? Oh! I wonder if Denmark finds out that you can pick up the phone and call the other country and say: can't you do this? I think you can, and I believe that the other country will do so, if otherwise it is proper partners in Europol. I guess people mean that. So this is probably not the big problem either, although I fully support the fact that the Minister for Justice has set a work in motion so that we can do it directly. Why wouldn't we be able to do that? It doesn't bother anyone that we're getting faster at fighting crime. I am counting on the Commission to accept it automatically, so it is not because I have something against it; it is just not a big problem that some people are trying to make it into here from the platform. On the other hand, there is a problem with data security. In other words, we have just had a meeting of the parliamentary monitoring organisation with Europol, where there was a long discussion about the security of information and where there was a lot of criticism. After all, the Commission itself has understood this, because in their work programme they are proposing an amendment to the mandate, which is supposed to take account of this. The European Data Protection Supervisor considers it problematic that data on non-suspected persons are processed in the system, as there is no legal basis for it under Europol's mandate and Europol is not allowed to process data at all on non-suspected persons. I do not know if that is true, but I know that this is what the European Data Protection Supervisor says. I think it is interesting that we are discussing whether there are any problems, and we could use this opportunity to do so appropriately, but I assume that the Minister will discuss this in his statement. In relation to the future: there I think there are some options. Britain, which has been a major supplier of Europol, is leaving the European Union, and it would then be obvious that we are trying to discuss how to organise European police cooperation, which organises all states in Europe that fulfil the guarantees of legal certainty. It is therefore not certain that all the EU countries will be included, but at least all those who do so must, of course, be allowed to participate. I am here with the Norwegian Government's work programme for cooperation with the EU 2020, where it says "and I shall save you from saying so in Norwegian, but it says in Norwegian, which will then be a little danished: Norway wants to have a simpler approach to Europol's register in the long term, primarily within the framework of the current cooperation agreement. However, other alternatives may also be relevant if, for example, the negotiations on Britain's withdrawal from the European Union should open up to another and in sum more advantageous association, which Norway will also be able to use. So, the Norwegians have already seen through that something is going to happen on this point and that you are going to set up a new system. After all, we are a member of the European Union, and should we then have a worse regime than the others? No, of course not. That is why we need to see this as an opportunity to take an active part in formulating our proposals for European police cooperation in the future, where, of course, we can participate on an equal footing with others, otherwise data security will be respected and legal certainty will be in order in the participating countries. In short, it is true, as the radical rapporteur said, that there is little new in this statement. It is true that there are some clouds on the horizon, that is something I would very much like to discuss, that is, the whole thing about QUEST. I would, for example, like: I would like to discuss the legal consequences of QUEST, and someone can ask that if they want to. But the short part of the length is that things are basically going well at the moment, but there is a future ahead and there we have the opportunity to influence it if we do so. I really think that the government should call for some negotiations on how we are going to help shape the future that awaits us in not very long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112180842	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112180858	Thank you, President. As the report shows, the National Police continue to assess that cooperation with Europol has a significant operational value for the Danish police. First of all, I believe that the agreement we negotiated home is a good one overall, but that does not mean that everything is working perfectly. It is no secret that the European cooperation of the Danish police has been made more difficult after we stepped out of an enforced Europol cooperation. There are a number of points where the National Police consider that Denmark's status as a third country restricts Danish police's ability to combat cross-border crime. We must look at this seriously, because unfortunately we are living in a world where cross-border crime is a growing problem. One of the tools we have is Europol cooperation. There are also examples in the Minister for Justice's statement that, despite our current status in Europol, Denmark has had successful operations based on Europol cooperation. We must build on this, and we must constantly look at how we can give the Danish police the best possible conditions to participate actively in Europol's cooperation. Because, as the report shows, Denmark as a third country can only participate as an observer in the meetings of the Europol Management Board. So it was just one of a number of points in which our role is limited. EMPACT is another example: we cannot apply for funding from the funds allocated to the EMPACT priorities. Despite this, the report shows that Denmark is actively participating in nine out of ten EMPACT priorities. This testifies to the fact that we are in such a situation that is not exactly perfect for the Danish police, although we are still trying to get the best out of our Europol Member State. Another example of this is Denmark's role when it comes to the so-called high value targets. It was also mentioned earlier, where our influence is again limited, although here we have also participated in one operational task force. The Conservative People's Party notes that the National Police for the statement states that it would be a clear advantage for Denmark if we could be involved in the whole process of designating high value targets. The same applies to the assessment by the National Police of the lack of access to QUEST and its consequences. Following the Minister for Justice's statement, the Danish liaison officers have had an unproblematic collaboration with the other actors in connection with contributions to and searches in the EIS; this despite the fact that in this area, too, the consequences of Denmark's status could have been felt, that it was only a little faster. Cross-border crime must be dealt with jointly with our allies and our partners; that is what everyone gets the most out of. Therefore, Denmark must constantly seek maximum influence and benefit from Europol as much as possible. The Conservative People's Party is grateful for the statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112181207	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112181211	It was because the rapporteur said in the first place that the way in which it is done, because the National Police are operationally satisfactory, but that there are some limitations, and that is why I was somewhat uncertain whether the rapporteur is overall satisfied or dissatisfied with the situation of the Danish police in relation to Europol. Then the rapporteur, on a scale of perhaps one to ten, could say how satisfied the rapporteur is with the situation of the Danish police in relation to Europol?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112181243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112181244	I would like to use the old scale of character that I think we had when I was very small, with very satisfactory, satisfactory, good and less good, and the word we are choosing here is that it is a good agreement. Then I do not know whether that is good enough for the rapporteur. However, the other points I raised bear witness to the fact that, now that we are a third country, there are some restrictions which hinder the cooperation that we have been so happy about. And then there are some who ignore it and say it's not that bad anyway. But listen to me: the reality is that in some areas we do not have the same flexible approach and cooperation, and I think the rapporteur himself agrees with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112181327	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112181329	It is always good and fun to remember the previous grades and use them at times, and so I would like to ask whether the rapporteur thinks that this is a good situation, to use the rapporteur's own expression, i.e. whether it is good for the National Police to consider that it is practically unmanageable for the Danish police vis-à-vis Europol when it comes to looking up systems and that it has operational consequences for the Danish police. Is that a good deal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112181401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112181402	Overall, we think that this is a good agreement, but there are some major shortcomings. That's also why we're not setting it up to be now I can't even remember what the higher levels were from our grade scale • very satisfactory or extremely satisfactory. There are, of course, some major shortcomings, as I have said, in relation to QUEST and in relation to having observer status only, but overall we think this is a good agreement. That is also what I think the Minister for Justice's statement reflects.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112181433	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112181436	Of course, we can now discuss how important it is that we cannot vote in a body where we do not vote. But let it go. I must commend the rapporteur for trying to be a little more nuanced than a number of other rapporteurs, in other words to try to weigh things up. I fully understand the view that we want to be involved in everything, and I understand that we are so sorry that we are not, but it was, after all, an attempt to make a nuanced picture of what the situation is. I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on that. Now it is the case that we are in the new situation that Britain is leaving. Has the Conservative People's Party considered how we are taking advantage of this situation? I assume that the Conservative People's Party fully agrees with the Enhedslisten that it would be very bad if Britain were to be placed outside European police cooperation. We must therefore find some solution where Britain can participate, and this will of course also have consequences for how Norway can participate and how we can participate. Is there any thought about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112181542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112181543	I think that everyone in the Folketing can see that it is a very, very complex situation in which Britain finds itself in a large number of areas, regardless of whether it is the fishing area or the police area. However, our basic view is that in a wide range of areas Britain has been one of Denmark's closest partners, so we are sorry that they are leaving, and we will do everything we can to have as close bilateral cooperation as possible with them in the police field as possible, but of course we will also do everything we can to get them as close as possible to Europol cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112181619	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112181620	Is it the case that what I consider to be a very clever point of view can lead to the Conservative People's Party approaching the Enhedslisten so much that we will be invited to invite the government to hold negotiations where we can try to place ourselves in the new situation of European police cooperation? I read out the Norwegian Government's work programme for 2020 in relation to the EU. After all, it is a government that is not far away from the Conservative People's Party, so one could imagine that one was inspired from there and thought that we should do something similar in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112181658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112181659	Yes, we are very fond of our sister party, Høyre, in Norway. However, I will certainly take the rapporteur's call to our legal rapporteur, Naser Khader. That's who I'm covering up here today. In any case, the basic principle is that we want as close and flexible cooperation with the United Kingdom as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112181717	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112181726	Thank you for the floor and thank you for your statement. The Europol agreement between Denmark and Europol provides the basis for sound operational and strategic cooperation. Cooperation shall aim to support and strengthen cooperation between the other EU Member States and the joint efforts of the national authorities of Denmark to prevent and combat serious and organised crime affecting two or more EU Member States and terrorism and other forms of crime affecting a common interest. I understand from the statement that, overall, the National Police Office is also very pleased with the cooperation under Europol. Cooperation is good and constructive, and the National Police see the current Europol agreement as of great operational importance for Denmark. Searches in the EIS take place smoothly and unproblematicly via the Danish-speaking national experts, although the process itself may take longer than if the Danish police had direct access. The experience of the National Police is that the EIS is useful as an intelligence tool for investigations. Thus, the National Police have indicated that there are several new examples of Danish police cooperation with Europol leading to good results in criminal investigation, so the conclusion must be that Denmark's current agreement with Europol is of great benefit and security for Denmark. There are parts of the cooperation that Denmark does not participate in and that the National Police consider it would be beneficial if we participated in. If initiatives can be made to increase Denmark's value of cooperation, New Citizens will look favourably on such a proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112181907	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112181911	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I'd like to ask about that. The rapporteur said that the Reichspolice is "and now I quote very well satisfied." I think that was the choice of words used by the rapporteur. Then I just want to hear where the statement says that the National Police are very pleased with the agreement with Europol.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112181931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112181932	I cannot stand by and find out now, but I will gladly find it for the rapporteur afterwards. But I read from this statement that the National Police are getting good results from the cooperation. Operationally satisfactory, it says.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112181947	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112181949	I am aware of the fact that nowhere in this statement does the police say that they are very pleased with the agreement that has been reached. I can actually understand that, because what is written in several places is that there are operational consequences and that there are systems that make efforts by the police, when you have to find someone at the border or elsewhere, practically unmanageable. So does the rapporteur agree that the fact that Denmark has the situation with regard to Europol, as it is, weakens Danish police's opportunities at the border compared to previous ones?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112182030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112182030-2	As I mentioned in my speech, the National Police believe that there could be benefits if we were a full member, compared to the agreement we have now. However, now it is as it is and if we have the opportunity to improve the agreement, then I think we should do so. If there are problems at the border, it might also be possible to compensate in other ways, possibly to strengthen border controls. Is that something the Radical Left wants to support?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112182053	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and then we are at least through the rapporteur's line, as far as those who are present in the Chamber are concerned, so the next person to speak is the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112182108	Thank you. And thank you for the debate. This is my second debate as Minister on the Europol report, and I would say that there was some more juice and power in the debate last year, but it may depend on the timing of the debate and the way in which the day is and so on. But basically, the nature of the debate is the same as last year, when you have a feeling that you're sitting there looking at a glass that's about half full, and some say, "It's really bad that glass is already half empty. Others look at the glass and say: It's a good thing that glass is half full. That is a little the way the debate is. I really believe that if we peel away our positions, or grieve that the vote went as it went back in 2015 then it must be said, frankly, that it is indeed a good deal that we have got that the agreement and the cooperation that is taking place has largely ensured that the operational possibilities of the Danish police are preserved. It's working. We're working very well together. On the other hand, it is also true that there are also negative elements. We don't have that direct access to the EIS, i.e. the Europol intelligence database there's an extra link shot in. We may have problems integrating with Pol-Intel, which may, of course, cause some problems in terms of investigative possibilities, etc. And it is true that QUEST, which we also talked about last time, is under development. As I remember, taken from the block, there are seven countries currently associated and nine more are coming in, and it is clear that it would have been nice for Danish police to also be able to use a tablet or other when stopping a car in West Jutland, to immediately be able to look up and see whether there are any problems here or not, but that is just not the case. What I think is our task is to ensure that we continue to have as good operational opportunities as possible, and that is true, as has also been pointed out, not least by Mr Tugendhat. Søren Søndergaard, that with brexit we will have a new challenge, which we will also have to face, depending on what brexit we will get, i.e. whether it will be a hard brexit or an agreed brexit etc. So basically, I should like to thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112182356	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112182400	Half empty or half filled there have really been some good character scales in the debate so far. I would therefore ask the Minister to decide for himself what grade scale he is using to assess the situation of the Danish police vis-à-vis Europol at this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112182421	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112182422	I don't think it's gonna suit me to put a figure on it. In fact, I believe that I tried to say this in my introduction, namely that we have, by and large, our operational options preserved, but that there is also a forecast that there are some options that we could otherwise have had that we have lost. One of the things I can worry a little about myself is when, as the rapporteur also has, you have been out seeing the use of Pol-Intel by the police; then it can be annoying if you do not have the opportunity and the opportunity to include information from Europol in the analysis of complex crime images. However, it must also be said that the operational possibilities of giving and taking have been preserved.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112182505	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112182507	I have heard the Minister say something about this being a good deal. But I think that now that it's been such a good debate a little shorter than it used to be, we should just have one last grade scale in play. So couldn't the minister come up with a grade scale and tell us where on the scale he thinks this situation is for the Danish police? And perhaps in particular, when the possibilities deteriorate in such a forward-looking way as the Enhedslisten himself has mentioned are worrying, could the Minister now place on a scale of character where we are and where we are going?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112182543	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112182544	It's okay, but it's the same question one more time, i.e. whether I want to use a grade scale. And I'm gonna have to choose to put the grade scale on my own. In fact, I do not think it is to the credit of the debate to put figures on it. I really think that this debate, like so many other debates, is best served by trying to go a little more nuanced on matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112182608	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112182610	I would also like to pay tribute to the Minister for not concealing his views and without hiding his wishes, because the Minister did not do so - yet to be fairly nuanced on this agreement. I think that's a really good idea. But I have two questions: one is the one with the criticism that has come from the European Data Protection Unit. When you say that this is contrary to the data protection rules to which Europol is subject, surely that is something that we should take seriously? This was, of course, one of our concerns in the referendum campaign, which is why I would also like to hear a comment from the Minister. So the second is a question of the search access. I also mentioned it at the meeting that we had before when we were informed of the statement. Is it the case that the police officers who were previously able to search Europol's registers themselves, i.e. the EIS, via a computer, for example? PET now on the same computer can send a request for a search via the SIENA system? Is that it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201112182714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112182715	The last question I think one can safely categorise as a rhetorical question in the sense that it is a question to which the questioner is well aware of the answer in advance. So let me start with the first question: this data issue, and there we are, I suppose, in the situation that there is a great interest in Europol being able to process large data sets. This is one of the things that actually offers the opportunity to combat crime effectively. On the other hand, it must of course take place within the framework of data protection rules, as I remember in the Europol Regulation. And there is, after all, an assessment by Europol of how this decision by the European Data Protection Supervisor is to be understood. It is above all Europol that has to make that assessment. Of course, the National Police are following the assessment closely, but it is the two opposing considerations that need to be balanced here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112182822	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112182824	Actually, it wasn't a rhetorical question, sir. Minister for Justice, but let us take it in writing, because it is nice that we all have a realistic picture of what the situation is instead of something that is based on an election campaign five years ago. So we'll put it in writing and we'll settle it. In relation to the thing about data protection, etc. Is it true that the Commission is writing in their work programme that they want to create a new regulation or amend the regulation, and this shows that something is going on? That is why we very much hope, and I would like confirmation of this, that the government will convene some negotiations or hold some discussions on how we deal with this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112182908	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112182909	It is quite right that, as the presentation is, this year it should actually have taken place, but now it will have been a renegotiation of our agreement. On this basis, there is no reason to believe that our agreement will look different. It is clear that the question of brexit may be able to play a role here, and of course we will always have to deal with that, i.e. what kind of landscape we are moving in and what kind of considerations this gives us.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112182938	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Minister of Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112182957	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. November 2020, p.m. 10:00.
