ParlaMint-DK_20201216130002	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Mattia Tesfaye): Bill no. L 126 (Proposal for a Law amending the Penal Code, Law on the Passport of Danish Nationals, etc.) and the law on foreigners (enhanced action against negative social control, etc.). Transport Minister (Benny Engelbrecht): Bill No. 127 (Proposal for a Law amending the Road Traffic Code) and Bill No. 128 (Proposal for a Law amending the Road Traffic Code (Addition of tax on the unlawful stoppage of disabled parking spaces and differentiation of parking charges for lorries and buses)). Liselott Blix (DF) and Karina Adsbøl (DF): Request no. F 29 (Will the Minister be based on question No. F 27 from Folketingår 2019-2020 and answer to question S no. 1643 of 23 September 2020 ensure that work is being undertaken as soon as possible to define a plan and strategy for the use of new gene therapy treatments for genetic diseases, so that we do not risk a repeat of the Medical Council's sling recourse in relation to the assessment of gene therapy Luxturna, which was finally approved only after a refusal and long waiting period for treatment of a rare retinal disease?). Mai Mercado (KF), Ellen Trane Nørby (V), Alex Ahrendtsen (DF), Jacob Mark (SF), Mette Thiesen (NB) and Henrik Dahl (LA): Request no. F 30 (How will the government ensure support for teachers' freedom of speech so that all teachers can freely teach in the Muhammad crisis, now that the Minister of Children and Education will not involve the Ministry in the formulation of learning courses at www.emu.dk?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply has requested pursuant to Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on climate effects 2020. R 11). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Monday 21 December 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216130113	Then I shall inform you that those of Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF) under no. 12) and 13) addressed questions to the Minister for Education and Research (pm. No. S 550 and S 551) are deleted from the agenda at the request of the author. I should also like to inform you that Mr Stén Knuth (V) under No. 14) raised questions to the Minister for Culture (pm. No. S 575) is deleted at the request of the author. Finally, I should like to inform you that Ulla Tørnæ (V) under No. 15) raised questions to the Minister for Culture (pm. No. S 576) is deleted at the request of the author. The first question is to the Prime Minister by Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216130150	Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmide for reading the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216130153	Thank you, President. Will the Prime Minister confirm that it is the government unit named the government.dk, who has prepared the Advents video which on 6 December on her private facebook profile announced new restrictions, and does the Prime Minister agree with Professor Sten Bønsing that this is a clear-cut misuse of the official work, as well as Professor emeritus Tim Knudsen, who also believes that such private use of the official apparatus is contrary to the rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20201216130221	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216130222	A video that I shared on my facebook profile on 6 December is being asked whether the video in question has been produced by officials of the Prime Minister's Office and whether it is not contrary to the rules. In accordance with the rules in this area, I can inform you that questions about the assistance of a minister's input into social media have been addressed in a note of June 2019 on legal issues through the use of social media by ministers. I understand that the note in an earlier version in 2017 has been sent to the Parliamentary Committee on the Rules of Procedure, and I understand that the note was updated in connection with the formation of the government, but that the relevant sections of the note on the assistance of officials remain unchanged. These guidelines show, inter alia, that the Office may draft statements for a minister's use on the social media, as long as it is a subject within the Minister's territory in the same way as when the Office assists with speeches and speeches for other contexts and other media. In addition, I can inform you that the video being asked for was recorded at Marienborg by employees of the Prime Minister's Press and Communication Unit. As you know, this was a video about future Corona action by the government. In summary, I do not agree with the description of the rules in this area on which the questioner is referring.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216130340	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216130341	So we can see that the video was produced by the Prime Minister's Office and thus by officials who do not belong to the Social Democratic Party. Yet the Prime Minister chooses to launch this video on his private facebook page. If you go on that side, you will be able to see that the Prime Minister is very clear that it is a private side. It's a Mrs. Mette Frederiksen side, it's not the PM's side, and that's what calls for a separate interest, not only from myself and from the Folketing, whose education it's to control the government, but also from people who actually work with these rules in everyday life, among other things. Sten Bønsing, professor, who at Weekendavisen says, quotes: "She's the State Minister's claim to public authorities by getting officials to produce a clip like this for her private profile. The principle of neutrality is intended to ensure that the public authorities do not contribute to facilitating the re-election or profiling of a minister in the private sector. Quote out. Does the Prime Minister not find it strange that a Prime Minister's official apparatus should be put in place to produce a very, very fine and serious video, and that it should then be launched on a website which does not stress anything to do with the Prime Minister's Office, but that it is the Prime Minister's private facebook page, where the Prime Minister also shares quite private relationships with his followers? Why did not the video in question simply appear on the PM's facebook page, after which the PM could have shared it in his private? This is not the first time that the use of the official apparatus by this government calls for a separate interest, in which both we in the opposition and where people with a factual approach to matters have had a quite well-founded suspicion that at the moment there is a coincidence between what one might say is the office, and then the party of which the Prime Minister also holds the privilege of chairing, and should not the Prime Minister therefore be particularly vigilant about how she uses the office in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20201216130536	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216130536-2	Thank you for the question, and I'm glad you liked the video. It was about something important, namely Denmark's handling of the global pandemic, which we are in the middle of, and which I hope we can use all our powers to deal with, so that we get our society safely through this crisis. I can continue to apply the rules and guidelines that apply, and it is clear from those guidelines that, among other things, the official work can draft speeches for a minister's use on social media as long as this is a matter for the minister, and that is the case here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216130611	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216130612	I can guarantee completely on my own behalf and on behalf of my party the Prime Minister that we are helping with everything we can to combat the current pandemic, but it is not necessarily something that takes all our strength. We still have the strength to control both the Prime Minister and the other government, which is why I should like to say that I think that this is a rather nonchalant behaviour of the Prime Minister here. Why is it that it is then the Prime Minister's, what can one say, his own opinion, completely unelected, in relation to what others outside the system might think, that is to say professors, former professors, current professors? How does such a disagreement arise?
ParlaMint-DK_20201216130647	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216130648	Yeah, I'm not exactly gonna be able to account for that. I'm applying the rules in this area. By the way, these are rules that will be passed on to the Danish Parliament in 2017, which means that they are rules that go back to a former government than the one I enjoy privilegedly leading. The note has been updated in connection with the latest government formation, and the guidelines indicate that the official work can draft statements for a minister's use of social media.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216130722	Sir. Morten Messerschmide for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216130723	I will certainly delve into the guidelines drawn up by the government itself, but I assume that the Prime Minister agrees that they do not rise above the public law or the administrative law. So, as Prime Minister and Prime Minister, we still have to follow the legislation adopted by the Danish Parliament. And so it must be the case that if there is a practice in relation to the administrative or public law, such as: Professor Sten Bønsing refers to when he says that it is a clear abuse, that is, what the Prime Minister is up to here, then it is something the Prime Minister will consider and change his behaviour in relation to.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216130751	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216130752	I'm complying with the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216130758	The question is over. But we will continue with questions to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216130802	Sir. Morten Messerschmide for reading the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216130805	Will the Prime Minister instruct his ministerial colleagues and officials in the future not to service the ministers to their private pages on social media?
ParlaMint-DK_20201216130811	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216130812	As I understand it, the question is provided that the official work is excluded from assisting ministers in the preparation of speeches to the social profiles of ministers and, as I have just explained in my answer to the previous question, the official work can assist a minister with contributions on social media if it concerns a subject in the Minister's field. Moreover, it is in the same way that the official body can also assist with speeches and speeches for use in other contexts and other media. In the note on the legal aspects of the use of social media by ministers, which I have just mentioned, the framework for the assistance of the civil service in the use of social media by ministers is described in more detail. The note is part of the PM's manual on the minority profession. The manual is given to new ministers in connection with their appointment of ministers, which means that my fellow ministers are familiar with the framework for the assistance of the office. The same applies to the official work. And, as I began by saying, these guidelines have also been forwarded to the Folketing at an earlier stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216130917	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216130918	This then gives me the opportunity to ask that the question for the previous question was closed by not being answered so now had to be answered. For it is all very well for the Prime Minister to draw up a set of guidelines, and it is also fine for it to be announced to the other ministers, but it is essential that the Prime Minister recognizes that a set of guidelines which, within a ministry, may have been drawn up for the members of the government are not above the law. What matters is what the wording is, what practice is in relation to the Public Act and the Administrative Act. This is where, among other things. Steen Bønsing, professor of public law, and Tim Knudsen, Professor emeritus, say very clearly that the practice of the Prime Minister here is contrary to the law. What might be interesting is, of course, just to get the Prime Minister to confirm that what comes first in relation to an internal government note and then the law we pass here in the Folketing is the law that has been passed here in the Folketing. That is why it would perhaps also be appropriate for the Prime Minister to take this with a little more humility, since this is not a set of guidelines drawn up in the Prime Minister's Office, but is about the law that applies to the whole of the public administration, so that we must not, as a minister, take advantage of the administrative apparatus that we have, the privilege that ministers are given by taxpayers, to anything other than something closely linked to the activity that we have as a minister. And it's a mess when you look at a private facebook page, where you sometimes share all sorts of private details bordering on intimate details with your followers, along with the PM's company, where you have officials to sit and make nicely produced videos. I cannot really understand why the Prime Minister does not at least just say that of course the law comes before the directives she receives from the Prime Minister's Office and, of course, both now and in the future will be followed by the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216131110	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216131111	I haven't said anything the other way around. And I know that this is something new, that is, the fact that parliamentary politicians assess the mood of being in when you answer as a minister. I'm being asked a question. I'm arriving at the hall. I presented the guidelines which form the basis of the practice, not only in this government, but also in the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216131138	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216131139	I can say that it is certainly not rare for the Prime Minister's party colleagues here in the Danish Parliament to judge my mind, so I therefore take the same privilege to the Prime Minister. I think it is arrogant when one does not want to say at all that the law also applies to the Prime Minister, and that the concern, which is widespread, that under this Prime Minister and under this government there should be a worrying merger of social democracy as a party and the machinery of office, must be taken seriously. The Prime Minister could do that simply by admitting that, of course, the law and its interpretation are above the directives she receives from the Prime Minister's Office internally.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216131217	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216131218	It seems strange to me that a set of guidelines, which has been in force under a previous government and which is taking place under the present government, should suddenly be subject to something quite different and somewhat more radically different than what has been the case in the past. If the guidelines that apply today were adequate and proper and good under the previous government, what is the problem with the current government trying to follow the same guidelines?
ParlaMint-DK_20201216131256	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216131257	Well, if it is any help to the Prime Minister, then I must admit that both the Public Act, the Administrative Act and any other laws that may have been passed here and confirmed by Her Majesty the Queen also applied to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, they also applied to Mr. Anders Fogh Rasmussen they applied to all prime ministers. Since Estrup, I believe, it has been pursued as well. What is the matter here is how to apply the rules. And I have to say that this is the first time that I have ever become aware of a prime minister who so nonchalantly now I'm judging again, and I'll see if I can find a more friendly expression next time, but at least so headstrong about having to follow the rules anyway choose to mix party activity, private activity on his Facebook, along with what the Prime Minister's Ministry is preparing. That is the problem, I would say to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216131339	Thank you. Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216131340	Well, I have explained what the guidelines are and thus the premise for the questions shows that they are not in line with the guidelines. If the questioner is right, it must mean that the former Prime Minister did not at any time receive assistance from the Prime Minister's Office for any kind of communication, for example on social media. Of course, I do not know if that is the case, but I can hardly imagine that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216131413	The question is over. Thank you to the Prime Minister. Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmide. The next question is to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, Mrs Bjerre, the Left. You want me to drink off so we can take care of each other?). Yeah, very, very much, that's really fine. It's a good practice, sir. Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216131438	Here you go, Mrs. Marie Bjerre, for reading the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216131440	Thank you for the sneeze of the snuffy mouthpiece. What do the Minister think of a well-brought foster child in the municipality of Brønderslev being separated from his younger brother to be placed with her aunt in network care 450 km away and otherwise against the boy's wishes?
ParlaMint-DK_20201216131458	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216131459	Thank you. Now I'm gonna have to drink off here, too. Now I know the matter only from what I have been able to read in the media, but according to the way the matter has been described and therefore also subject to the fact that I do not know all the details of the matter, all the alarm bells ring in my hands. That's why I've informed the Ankestyrelsen about the case so they can assess whether they have a basis for entering it. I have also asked the municipality of Brønderslev for an explanation to gain insight into the municipality's practice in relation to the relocation of children. In general terms, if a municipality is to move one child from one location to another, it is quite clear heading on the decision: the consideration of the child's best. Each time a child is uprooted and moved to a new place, it risks having major consequences for the child's ability to associate with others, create close relationships, trust others. Therefore, we must avoid shifts that are not for the child's good. Consideration of the child's best interests, of the continuity of placement, of the child's schooling, siblings, etc. in writing. - (FR) As such, it is already part of the law today, but unfortunately we can only say that this is not always the case today. You don't have to have talked to a lot of children in your care to know that's the way it is. We, as a society, must do better. We must take better care of the most vulnerable children and the children who have been placed because they have been deprived of care. That was also the clear message of the Prime Minister in his New Year's speech. We must ensure that children placed in care have a much more stable childhood, and we must give them a stronger voice in their own affairs. It should be obvious, but unfortunately we see all too often that decisions are made about the child, which weighs the adult's perspectives higher than that of the child. The government is about to launch an initiative, including: provide more rights for vulnerable and placed children and ensure that children and their needs are put first, even if in some cases this would be at the expense of parents. I hope that the questioner and the Left will be involved in negotiating the government's proposal in the new year, because I can only say that every time we have these discussions, it will end up being too much about the right of parents and too little about children. If we are to succeed in putting children first, we need to give them more rights and a stronger voice, to ensure better involvement of children in their own affairs. I therefore hope that the questioner will remember the concern she has about a specific case here when we discuss new legislation in this area in the new year.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216131712	Mrs. Marie Bjerre, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216131713	I understand that the Minister knows the matter, at least from the press, and I am glad that there are also alarm bells ringing from the Minister, and that is why I do not want to waste any time going into the matter in detail, but simply to say that this is a matter of removing a boy who does not want to. Then I would say that just before I went down here, I got an email from a family who knows this boy and the foster family very well. The night before the boy had to be removed, he said several times: I told the lady I didn't want to. And finally he lay with two fingers in front of his eyes to keep his eyes open when he didn't want to sleep, because he knew that after he slept, he had to leave the foster family. The boy was removed the next day. By using a network placement instead of traditional placement with a foster family, the municipality can save DKK 300,000. a year. So this is about the legal certainty of the children, and I just think it's amazing that you can separate a couple and place them so far apart, without being able to see each other, and the brothers are even well placed, and they thrive. I understand that the government would like to give priority to the children. I also understand that the Prime Minister wants to be Prime Minister of the children. But frankly, I have not seen the shadow of the fact that it has real content when such cases here can exist. This isn't a single case. In her New Year's speech the Prime Minister said yes, she said many things, including things that we disagree with, among other things, that more children must be placed and more children must be given away and that the conditions for children placed must be much more stable. Then we thought the government was gonna come up with a plan to deliver something for vulnerable children. We have seen increasing problems. There are major problems with legal certainty in this area. But nothing came in the spring. I can accept that this may be due to corona. When I became the social rapporteur this summer, I was told that there was going to be a proposal here in the autumn. I still haven't seen the shadow of that. Now we're in December. Soon we'll be coming to the PM's New Year's speech without even being delivered in this area. The government's legislative programme, which came when the Folketing opened in October, stated that we should treat the child's law in February. Now I understand that it has been postponed until March. The Minister also says in his reply a lot of fine words about the launch of a project in the near future. Where's that game going?
ParlaMint-DK_20201216131924	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216131925	I must say that the rapporteur of the Left is shooting wildly around him. The rapporteur of the Left could start by asking his own party colleague, who is the mayor of the municipality where this specific decision has been made. Neither the rapporteur nor I can stand in the Chamber and do a specific case. I have also read the descriptions of how a small child goes into himself and has clearly not been listened to by the adults who are around it, and therefore this government will give these children more rights. It's the left that hangs in the brake. It is the Left who owes some answers, and I would just like to hope that the Left rapporteur will remember this new-found zeal to ensure these children a stronger stability, which in some cases will be at the expense of parents' rights when we are going to negotiate in the new year. That would be really nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216132005	Mrs. Marie Bjerre, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216132006	I am not taking any specific action in this Chamber. I promise that there is a deep problem of legal certainty for children placed in care who are experiencing far too many shifts, and this is a local case I am raising as an example, but there are plenty of examples and there are increasing problems with legal certainty. It is simply too bad that we have a government that says that it will provide legal certainty for children placed in care and says that one will make a move, and said so in the New Year's speech last year. It's almost a year now. We haven't seen the shadow of the child's law. I haven't heard anything. When's the playout coming to the child's law?
ParlaMint-DK_20201216132039	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216132040	I agree that the rapporteur first became rapporteur for the area around the summer holidays, but it is simply wrong to say that nothing has happened at all. As part of the great compensatory reform that we made widely here in the Danish Parliament, also with the author's party, there were among other things. A change in the rules on reimbursement is made so that the municipalities do not have to bear the costs in the expensive placement cases, so that this, for example, is done. If you have a group of siblings to be set up, yes, you can add to the cost of the siblings and get a refund. So something has happened, but the big deal has been delayed by corona, I have never concealed the fact that it would be so. We'll be done with it very soon. The questioner himself noted this by looking at the legislative programme, and I look very much forward to seeing the Left have as much zeal in the negotiations as here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216132120	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Marie Bjerre. Last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216132121	Will the Minister for Social Affairs deny that it was said this summer that it was going to deliver a proposal in the autumn and that it has not been delivered? And what is the excuse for not having delivered that proposal yet? Will the Minister deny that when the legislative programme was launched, there would be a proposal and that the draft law would be dealt with in February and that it has now been postponed until March? What is it that keeps the government putting this off and doesn't come up with any action?
ParlaMint-DK_20201216132147	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216132148	It therefore borders on the political platty to stand to do as if there is no corona crisis that has hit Denmark and that there has not been a wave here that has made it extremely crucial that we protect the most socially vulnerable in our country, the most socially vulnerable people with disabilities in our housing provision, the streetless against corona. In all modesty, I have spent a great deal of time as a minister. I think that is also important for most Danes. But I look forward to meeting a Left that comes to negotiations with that goal and I will keep the Left up to ensure greater stability for these children, because these are not the notes I have heard from the Left so far, but I will look forward to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216132219	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you to Mrs Bjerre and thank you to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. Thank you, Marie Bjerre, it's fine when the outgoing asks drunks off. Then it can't be better. That's it, thanks for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216132244	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216132248	How does the Minister feel that it is in keeping with the stated aim of the government's paper of understanding to give the elderly as much self-determination and dignity as possible that the government, in the presentation of the welfare agreements with the municipalities, wants to remove the right of the elderly to be able to choose private alternatives to the municipal service?
ParlaMint-DK_20201216132306	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216132307	Thank you for the question. The question is, after all, about negotiations which are taking place with my colleague, the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, and that is why we have also told the questioner that it would be logical and the right thing to re-address the question to the Minister, but the questioner has chosen not to do so. So now I am answering a question which deals with negotiations that are taking place with my colleague. That is why I cannot say much. The questioner has chosen that it should be placed with a minister other than the one who is having these ongoing negotiations, so I am not in those negotiations. But what I can say is that what we have in our agreement with the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten in the political understanding paper is that we want to increase the dignity of care for the elderly with the aim of giving the elderly as much self-determination and dignity as possible. Work is being started to reduce unnecessary documentation requirements, control and minute tyranny in the care of the elderly, thus freeing up time for work with the individual elderly, and this is very much needed. And if you read our Finance Act, you'll see that we've dropped funds. And if you read our economic agreements, you will see that we have set aside funds so that not only do we keep up, but for the first time in many years also put on top of the economy of care for the elderly. Now we're going to see if we can't do the organization a little more wisely, and that's why we've selected some municipalities to take the lead, some spearhead municipalities. One of them is Viborg, another is Middelfart, and another is Langeland. It is a Commune of the Left, a Commune of Social Democrats, and it is a municipality with a mayor of the SF; it is therefore Viborg and Middelfart and Langeland who have to find out if you can organise yourself better. And their actual experience with this is very, very much to be hoped for. I think it is time we put action behind words and strengthen welfare, but also set it free closer to the elderly, closer to the relatives, closer to the staff.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216132511	Mrs. Jane Heitmann, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216132512	Thank you for your answer. It is true that the Minister asked for the matter to be redirected to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, but I think that the government is probably a whole and well-targeted policy. So I would like to thank the Minister for coming and thank him for his reply. People are different, people have lived different lives and have had different preferences throughout their lives. All this does not change just because you are getting older and need care and care or need to be well cared for in a nursing home. If you ask the elderly themselves, it is in fact the case, according to a study led by the Minister's own ministry, that 82 per cent. of the elderly interviewed consider it important or very important that they can choose even within nursing homes and nursing homes. And I would like to stress that for us in the Left, it is not crucial whether you choose a private or a public offer. For us, it is crucial that we have a genuinely free choice. That's why the Left has, among other things. proposed that there should be free-care homes in much more municipalities than is the case today, just as we have proposed that in all municipalities there should be independent older counsellors who can guide our older people and their relatives to the right offer both for the individual and for the family. So my question to the Minister here today is, of course, whether the Minister agrees that it is absolutely essential that there is something to choose from, both in terms of cleaning, food service, personal care, housing, that is, free choice between municipal and private nursing homes, so that each elderly person and their relatives can freely choose the solutions appropriate to the person they are; so that they should not be tied up to a single solution chosen by a majority of the municipal council. Does the Minister agree? And now, after all, the Minister himself mentioned the paper of understanding, which states quite correctly that the aim is to give the elderly the greatest possible self-determination and dignity.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216132707	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216132708	I fully agree that older citizens must continue to have the opportunity to obtain a different offer if they are not satisfied with the offer and the aid they receive. This applies throughout Denmark, and of course in the three municipalities as well. Specifically, I understand that the parties negotiating an agreement and I hope that it will be a broad agreement, but, as I said, I am not involved in the negotiations that are working on models for how to organise it in a way that does not stick to the minute tyranny of the past and the poor organisation of this area of the past, which is being thought new and at the same time guarantees real freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216132744	Mrs. Jane Heitmann, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216132745	I have little sympathy for the fact that free elections should be minute tyranny, as the Minister says here. And if the Minister fully agrees that it is crucial that there is something to choose from, will the Minister not enter into dialogue with the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior and work to ensure that the forthcoming welfare agreements guarantee free choice for all elderly people in nursing homes, in personal care, with practical help, so that no elderly people in the so-called new free municipalities are left on the platform without a real option?
ParlaMint-DK_20201216132820	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216132821	I am a little sad about the way people like to ironize or are sarcastic about the so-called It is a huge job and there is a great, great confidence in it and a great optimism among others. The mayor of the left in Viborg is the rapporteur's party colleague, but also the Social Democratic Mayor of Middelfart and the mayor of the SF in Langeland for what this can become. And there is full dialogue and full contact between my ministry and social and the Minister for the Interior, but it is just over there that the negotiations, as you know, are taking place.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216132851	Mrs Jane Heitmann, last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216132852	After all, it is no secret that the Left has in the past led innovative free municipalities, and we would like to continue down the path of freeing municipalities in the task solution, not locking the citizen to one offer. It is, of course, a crucial difference between a Social Democrat and a Left-wing woman. Because with the proposal for the welfare agreements, citizens are being deprived of the right to be able to choose that offer in real terms. And does the Minister think that after many years in the labour market, our elderly should be eaten off with only one offer, i.e. one offer on e.g. food service?
ParlaMint-DK_20201216132933	Then we get answers from the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216132934	As I have said, I do not think so, and if the Left is afraid that, as the Left says, we are working to lock citizens onto one offer, then I can utter that fear in the ground. That's not what's on the table. That's not what we're working for. We are working to ensure, in dialogue with the three municipalities, that older citizens continue to be able to obtain another offer in the event of dissatisfaction with the aid provided.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216133001	The question is over. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to Mrs Jane Heitmann. And thank you to Mrs Jane Heitmann for wiping the table. It's really exemplary. We then proceed with questions to the Minister for Transport by Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216133022	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216133024	Thank you for that, President. The question is: What is the Minister's opinion on the countless consultation responses in relation to the vvm study of the E45 extension from Aarhus N to Randers, where citizens complain about the very large noise and company nuisances reporting massive congestion problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20201216133041	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216133042	Thank you for the question. Road noise and congestion challenges are major social problems affecting a large number of Danes. Therefore, I also understand very well that many citizens have used the consultation period in the vvm study to make their relevant opinion known. That is, in fact, why we have vvm studies and the possibility of submitting a hearing response. I can inform you that the public consultation has led to further noise reduction measures being added by the Road Directorate to the project. The project therefore proposes a total of 12.7 km of noise shielding measures along the motorway for noise protection of nearby residential areas and nearby urban communities. In addition, extending the E45 from Aarhus N to Randers N will be able to address certain mobility challenges in the area, and I understand that this is something that you have a local interest in. As regards noise shielding measures at E45, I can also inform you that, in connection with the extension of the Skanderborg S motorway to Skanderborg N, it has been decided to set up noise shields at Vrold and Skanderborg city. The noise shields are expected to be installed during 2021. The noise shields at Vrold were not part of the original expansion project, but as there was funding left over from the project grant, it was decided, on a proposal from the Vejdirektoratet, to invest in additional noise shields, so that there is a constant focus on the noise area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216133218	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216133219	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The situation is, of course, that more than a year has actually passed since the government took office and we have still not had a single negotiating day on how and how we can deal with the growing problems of congestion, among other things. E45 in Østjylland, and also the massive noise problems in e.g. a town like Randers. This has to be seen in the light of the fact that the previous government actually created a fully funded infrastructure plan which addressed both things. In addition, there was a historically high noise pool of 1.6 billion. kr. Secondly, in the infrastructure agreement we have also decided to set off three tracks all the way from Randers to Vejle. Now we stand here over a year after nothing has happened on the part of the government. And the only losers in this are not those who live in Copenhagen, but those of us who live in East Jutland and therefore have to commute, and the many homeowners who have to live along the motorway with the massive noise that will be year by year. That is why I am a little bit, what should we say, almost in a situation where I beg and ask the government to try to get on the ground and try to make a promise that what was self-evident in the previous government's infrastructure plan should also be a matter of course for the current government's infrastructure policy. The problem has not, of course, been reduced; we have still lost increasing infrastructure problems on the E45, which are getting worse and we have still gone away from rising noise problems. That is why it is an opportunity now, Minister, for the negotiations at some point to start at least to make a promise that what was promised by the previous government, and many people in the Crown Jutland were happy about it, will of course also be included in the new government's infrastructure plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216133415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216133415-2	After all, we have stated clearly that we first wanted to negotiate on green road transport and then on subsequent infrastructure. And I note that, despite the fact that the party is behind a 70-percent target, unfortunately, after incredibly long negotiations, months of negotiations wanted to take responsibility. This is obviously the new problem, i.e. that the Left Party does not want to take responsibility for making broad agreements. I hope, of course, that the Left will come up with other ideas when we will shortly be negotiating infrastructure and a green mobility plan and that the Left will appear as a responsible party ready to enter the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216133453	Michael Aastrup Jensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216133454	But minister, we will that's why we made a fully funded plan that the government, a few days, almost hours after it joined, threw in the garbage can. Now we are in a situation where no solution has been found. I've been out visiting these many noisy citizens for a long time. You are actually begging and asking for a visit from the Minister so that he can also see and hear the problem. Is this an undertaking that the Minister can give that he will come out and experience the problem, so to speak, before the infrastructure negotiations come? Then I shall certainly facilitate it between the citizens who are out there and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216133525	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216133526	If there are citizens in the area who want me to get out there, I'd be happy to. However, there is just one consideration to take into consideration, so we have to be able to do it in such a way that we do not put each other at risk. We must, of course, take that into account. I cannot say whether it can then be in January or whether it will have to stay a little later. I would just like to remind you that it seems a little hollow that a representative of the Left is talking about taking responsibility, given that neither the responsibility for green road transport nor, for that matter, the responsibility for a broad police settlement has been taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216133601	Michael Aastrup Jensen with the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216133602	I find it difficult to see what the police settlement has to do with noise-stricken citizens in Kronjylland or E45 congestion, but the Minister of Transport will be able to explain this later. I'm actually happy with the commitment. In fact, I am pleased that the Minister will now visit the noise-stricken citizens, and I look forward to finding a date at the beginning of the new year when we will, of course, have to comply with the various Corona measures that exist. Then the Minister can see for himself that the problem has only got bigger and that it must therefore be resolved as soon as possible. So thank you for the commitment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216133629	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216133630	Well, you could have just called over, because I kind of say yes to a lot of invitations in the country. You don't have to invite the Minister to the Parliamentary Chamber to let me out. I am quite happy to do so, and you are always welcome to come over to a cup of coffee if there are any of these things you want to discuss. And then let me just say that when I highlight the issue of taking responsibility, it is of course because I hope that we can just make a broad infrastructure agreement where as many parties as possible are involved, so that it is not, as it was in the time of the previous government, a narrow agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216133704	The question is closed, but we will continue with questions to the Minister for Transport and from Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216133710	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216133713	Thank you for that, President. The question is: what is the Minister's position on a third link over Randers Fjord, the so-called East Bridge, and is it, in the view of the Minister, a project which should be financed by state funds, possibly in a future infrastructure plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20201216133726	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216133727	I am not going to say much more about the infrastructure negotiations, because we have just had to turn this around on the last issue. It is clear that for the government it is absolutely essential that we make broad agreements, and that is of course also why we have had an ambition to also reach a broad agreement on the issue of reducing CO2 but, having said that, it is also clear that when we talk about infrastructure, it is the case that no projects are normally excluded in advance. That is certainly my approach to it. But it is also the case that there is a good tradition that the state finances state infrastructure and municipalities finance municipal infrastructure. It is a division of tasks which I think should be borne in mind, even when it comes to a third link over Randers Fjord, which is, in principle, a municipal task. It is clear that if it is the position of the Left that the state should finance municipal infrastructure in the form of a third link over Randers Fjord, the so-called East Bridge, then the Left can make these demands in the forthcoming negotiations on a green mobility plan, and then we will have to see what a majority can be obtained for.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216133849	Michael Aastrup Jensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216133850	Thank you, Minister. The situation is, of course, as I think the Minister is aware, that more than 38 000 cars actually cross Randers Bro every day, which is thus pressured to the utmost, and that will not be enough to deal with the increasing traffic pressure that is across Randers Fjord within a number of years. That is why it is also necessary because of emergency obligations, because ambulances must be able to get to and from, among other things. Djursland and into the Region Hospital Randers with a third connection over Randers Fjord. There are, of course, different plans. Randers Municipality has their climate bridge project, which is a municipal project, and then there is the East Bridge, which we have been talking about for a number of years about what the state's involvement in the long term should be. In the former government's fully funded infrastructure plan, a free pool was set up to apply for projects, as it were, if and if there were some good regional projects of national importance. Then you could apply there. Does the government intend to do something similar in their proposals for future infrastructure negotiations? And in relation to the concrete project with the East Bridge, is it something that the government does not want to play by the Left as a government project, or is it thought that it is the municipality's project alone? Because that is what matters. At the same time, it is also crucial whether or not you can have a payment model for the project. As the Minister has, I hope, been briefed on, there is also an idea in the East Bridge project that it could be done as a payment project. Will the Minister also be open to it if you do so? So A: Does the Minister see it as a government project or a municipal project? And B: Will there be any possibility of a paybridge in this project?
ParlaMint-DK_20201216134043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216134044	If that is how there is a desire to create local models where there is some kind of user funding, I will certainly not rule it out in advance. If you otherwise have projects where you have a local desire to co-finance state infrastructure, it could, for example: I do not rule it out in advance either. However, it is also clear that the division of tasks between the state and the municipalities seems to me to be quite clear from the outset. But what the Left had to choose to give priority to the negotiations must be taken at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216134123	Michael Aastrup Jensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216134124	I am also sorry that the Left is not in government, but we have to acknowledge that, and that is why it is so interesting what the government has of interests, even though the government will not really respond to it quite clearly. That is why I have the opportunity to ask these questions here and hope for clear answers, and I still have that hope. Hope is bright green. What was involved was whether the government would be open to state cofinancing of a third link over Randers Fjord, and not what any other parties would bring. Will this be part of the government's proposal for negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20201216134156	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216134157	In other words, when I have looked at the plan of the previous government, for which there is no longer a majority, I certainly cannot conclude from it in any way that the previous government should have given any priority to this project. That is why, of course, when we start again, yes, the parties must also bring in the wishes that they have. I have one interest. This is to make a broad infrastructure agreement, which has a very long perspective, a very long-term one, and I hope, of course, that all parties will take a fresh look around and as I have already indicated: if you want to analyse the issue of user charges, I am open to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216134235	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, final question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216134236	Thank you. I understand that the government is talking a lot about what other parties are doing. If the government is not ready to rule, there is an alternative, and that is that you can resign. I say that, of course, a little tight, but frankly I also think that when I ask to hear what the government's proposals will be, the least you can say is what the government's proposals will be. That is why I am asking again calmly: will the government, the government
ParlaMint-DK_20201216134306	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216134307	The government is willing to discuss all projects that might be discussed in a debate, but it is also clear that what we have said is that there must be a broad political agreement. We are willing to go along with that, even in the case that a party like the Left finds itself inaccessible or may even end up not wanting to join, just as we have seen it on green road transport, where you have not wanted to take responsibility for CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20201216134343	The question is over. Thank you to the Minister, and thank you, Mr President. Michael Aastrup Jensen. And thank you, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen for drinking. This means that we can move on to the next question, which is to the Minister for Children and Education by Mrs Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216134359	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216134402	Thank you. What does the Minister think about the challenges of children in school classes not inviting classmates home for children's birthdays at the moment because of the Covid-19 guidelines, but, on the other hand, meeting up to 50 children from different schools for leisure after school?
ParlaMint-DK_20201216134419	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216134420	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. It's a constant balance, and we can't do it all at once. That is why, as a government and as a parliament, we have had to make some decisions in relation to corona, where you can say: well, if you can do this, why can't you do this? We have faced this situation many times. It is always best to avoid what I call paradoxical rules. Paradoxically, when you say: Well, I can't understand why we really want to be together if we do it in this framework, but mustn't be with exactly the same people if we do it in the other framework. There is no doubt that precisely the issue of birthdays for children is an example of a paradoxical rule, but the rule is nevertheless relatively well thought out. For the whole idea of it has been to say that leisure activities are simply important for children and young people. Right now it is true throughout the country, including for children and young people, that you can only be together up to ten people for leisure activities, which means that right now the issue is not real. However, if it had not been out of date, there would simply be a consideration to take into account that it is important for leisure activities to be kept open. This means that there are a lot of other activities that we must not do, because it is the total amount of contact between people that increases the risk of infection and the number of chains of infection. Therefore, there has also been a call for schools and day care institutions to make a little extra of the children's birthday when you are at school and are with your class, compared to under normal circumstances.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216134545	Mrs. Marie Bjerre, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216134546	I agree with the Minister that this is a matter of balancing, and I also agree that we must do what we can to limit the coronasmit. The Corona infection is very serious, and I am not going to criticize the government's restrictions in general either. Because we need to minimise our social activities in order to avoid infection. But I still see it as my obligation as a member of parliament to point out how the effects of these restrictions are out in reality and to say off if the restrictions seem ill-thought out, are too random or have an unfortunate social side. The fact is that schools do not allow class arrangements after school, because the recommendations of the health authorities are that they do not meet for class events. This means, for example, that you cannot have children's birthdays. On the other hand, until yesterday you could meet at scouting events or football or handball up to 50 children and young people from widely differing schools, and it certainly seems paradoxical. The real problem is that children do not stop having children's birthdays. The 8-year-old doesn't want to invite home for a children's birthday. Then it's just called a play date instead, and then you invite a little handful, two, three, four girls or boys in class, home with you. What we see is that, unfortunately, it is the same children, the popular children, who are pointed out every time. They're the ones who brought a birthday present in the bag that morning. And it's the same kids who are left behind and who aren't going to be with us this time for the children's birthday. Frankly, I find that a pity. That is why I am rather concerned that the Minister is replying that the problem of birthdays for children is well known and that something is being done about doing something more in the institutions. But in reality, there's just an invitation to a play date, and then we're gonna leave the vulnerable kids behind. With this question, I just want to make sure that the government is aware of this challenge and is trying to think it through.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216134735	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216134736	While these rules were still up to date, both my kids filled years. It is just to say that exactly the situation we have faced, and the recommendation is not that part of the class be invited home for the birthday of children. Actually, the recommendation is that you don't. That's basically what's involved in not bringing the class together. That means that then we have the social bubbles we have and how the social bubbles are composed and who you invite into your home, and under what circumstances, we have not set guidelines for as a government. In fact, I think you should be careful about that. But I just want to say, in terms of how much you feel about the retina, that most of us have children, and most of our children actually have birthdays once a year. I don't think there's any kids who don't have a birthday once a year. That is why we know the problem quite well.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216134819	Mrs. Marie Bjerre, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216134820	Then I am glad that I have the opportunity here to tell you how it certainly works in many places. Because there it seems that you just invite home for a play deal, because you can do that within the guidelines. Then you invite two, three, four children home, and it's just the same kids we see being pointed at every time, and it's the same kids who sit in the class and don't come home for children's birthdays. I hope the Minister will take that information with him. It is fair that we have not known about this issue before, because things have gone fast, but it is a real concern that I have and we need to think more about vulnerable children.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216134854	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216134855	If what people see as their primary purpose is to circumvent the guidelines, then they can do so. One day after another, we have witnessed demonstrations in the Palace Square, where I have repeatedly been able to see that the distance that we recommend is not kept. So if what a parent intends to do is bypass the rules, it's hard for us to prevent it. After all, it has always been a recommendation that in order to avoid bullying and exclusion in the classes, care should be taken to say that it is either all the girls, all the boys or the whole class that should be invited. That cannot be done under the present circumstances, and I hope and believe that most parents are actually sensible enough not to do what the questioner refers to. But there are some people who are perverting the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216134937	Mrs Bjerre for her last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216134938	I just want to make it clear that this isn't about parents circumventing the rules, some circumventing the rules, because you can invite home for a play deal. So you do, you don't call it a birthday party, but it really is. There's a gift, and it's a birthday party. It's just max. Two or three kids who are on this play date. This is not an circumvention of the rules, and that is how it works in practice, and I therefore think it is important that the government is aware of it. Because that means it's the vulnerable children who are once again suffering from this corona crisis. So, in conclusion, I would just like to move on to remember this when we have the rules relaxed a little and take into account that there has to be room to meet.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216135018	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216135018-2	The rapporteur makes it sound as if we have not remembered it in the past. This is actually something that has been discussed quite extensively. I just want to say that in normal circumstances, when there is no corona, there is a clear recommendation that you invite either all the girls, all the boys or the whole class or not. After all, none of the educational recommendations have changed because of corona, and that is why I see it as a circumvention of the recommendations that normally apply to schools in relation to the organisation of children's birthdays. It is not in relation to corona restrictions, but if you invite a small group in the class, you do what most people actually think is wrong under normal circumstances, and I think that should be avoided.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216135056	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you, Mrs Bjerre. Yes, Mrs. Marie Bjerre is drinking off. Thank you. We will continue with questions to the Minister for Children and Education. Now it's Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216135117	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216135120	Thank you, sir. President. What is the Minister's view that the inequality between day care and day care is increasing when the government's agreement on minimum standards allocates money to more adults in day care institutions based on the total number of children in the municipalities, without taking into account the proportion of children in other types of care, for example. day care?
ParlaMint-DK_20201216135141	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216135141-2	The government, together with the parties to the agreement, has agreed that the minimum standards give a historic and necessary boost to the day institutions. Day care is provided with that agreement no less than they have been in the past. There is no change in their subsidy rules or in the rules governing municipal day care. Day care is today, among other things. already covered by legal requirements for a maximum number of children of five per year. day care provider, and in practice there are typically only four children per day. day care provider due to contractual regulation. This means that a number has already been added. In addition, day care differs from institutions by the fact that the day care provider is alone with the children and that the children are associated with one regular day care provider who, as in the institutions, cannot share the care with several other adults. The agreement also tightens contract parties on the rules for private care, so that they are more subject to the same framework as for municipal day care, and it must ensure that institutional-type private care schemes are not set up in the future, which do not have the same high standards as day care institutions and, moreover, municipal day carers. So we downgrade the ceiling for the number of children per year. private fit in newly created private care schemes from five to four children and require care to be provided in the private home of the carer in order to provide it with a safe environment. If two people living in the same household have room for it, then you can take up to eight children. So with the agreement, the parties to the agreement have chosen to continue the coinage model from last year, when the funds are distributed according to child numbers, and that is to ensure a quick and non-bureaucratic coinage, so that when the bill comes into force in 2024, the funds will be distributed through the block subsidy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216135327	Mrs. Ellen Trane Nørby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216135328	I can tell you that we in the Left also support the pledge on this total accumulated amount of perhaps by now 5.6 billion. kr. to the children's area. This is also in line with the fact that we lifted the children's area, both economically and professionally and in terms of content, while we were in government, both as a Left Government and also subsequently as a VLAK government. On the other hand, we have discussed the discrimination against up to 64 500 children, which the government and the Red Support Parties then choose to maintain in the coming year too, in relation to children whose parents have chosen their children to attend day care, in a self-serving institution or in a private institution, not being given the status promise. This means, of course, that especially children living in a sparsely populated area where we know that there are more private institutions and more private passes and more day carers do not get a share in this economic boost. It is completely incomprehensible to us why the government and the Red Support Parties do not want all children in Denmark to have a good start to life. When we look at day care and the rules that apply to day care, it is true that today, as the Minister also says, there can be up to five children. Now there is a ceiling on four children, which is also what is agreed in many places, but at the same time it insists that there can be only three children per child. adult in a crèche, despite the fact that you can call a colleague there if there are dangerous situations or other things where you are challenged in the task solution. This means basically giving worse conditions to those who, either in private or municipal day care, have to take care of lifting the care and care assignment and learning assignment for some of our children and young people. It is incomprehensible to us why the government chooses to maintain such a distortion both geographically and between the various offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216135527	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216135528	I would like to ask whether this means that if the Left were to return to government, it would reduce the number to one to three children in day care. That would not be my recommendation, because I believe that these are two very different ways of being cared for, because that is a safe home environment, and that is why I really believe that the cut on the four children is right there. Being part of an institution with many children and, incidentally, many growing is simply another environment. We have been able to see that in the case of corona. One of the things that really makes a big difference to the children is having been divided into small units where there is peace and where there is a quite different profit than when they are in larger units. Therefore, it has been our assessment that the one to four children were a fine cut for the day care workers.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216135608	Mrs. Ellen Trane Nørby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216135609	This does not change the fact that the government does not choose to channel money from the promise of standards and the promise of children to day care, to the self-serving institutions and to the private institutions. This means that 64 500 children are fundamentally discriminated against because their parents have used their free choice to put them in day care, put them in a self-serving institution or put them in a private institution. It is completely incomprehensible why the government has the policy that these children should not have a part in the promise, because it is possible to choose to extend the child's promise to day care, despite the fact that they do not change the number of standards. But the government chooses not to do so, and in this way the economy is eroded.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216135646	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216135647	This is not quite true because the self-serving institutions actually get the same level. It is reflected in their economy when it is the case that more money is promised and given to the municipal institutions. So that part doesn't fit. In relation to day care, it can be said that up to now it has been the case that in the day care sector people have actually had better conditions than those in the institutions because they have had a fixed ratio of how many children there must be. This has not been the case in the day institutions. That is what we are now implementing with the legislation on minimum standards. This means that there has been an imbalance in the rights of the various sectors. We'll fix that. It's that way around, we see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216135728	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby for her last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216135729	But the government does not correct the economic imbalance. After all, we continue to choose to discriminate against the 64 500 children whose parents have chosen either day care, self-employed institutions or private institutions, together with their Red Support Parties. That is what matters, for example. In a municipality such as Thisted Municipality, where half of the children go into such institutions that the economic gap between the municipal institutions and the other institutions becomes greater, with the aim of getting an imbalance, which is purely ideological and which is not about ensuring that all children and young people in Denmark grow up well.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216135804	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216135805	This is simply not true because institutions receive their subsidies on the basis of the subsidy granted to the municipal institutions, and it is therefore factually wrong to say that this does not benefit those who go to the self-serving institutions; it does so. We have chosen to say quite openly that there have been some rights in terms of day care, in relation to the conditions around children, which unfortunately did not apply to day-care children. Now we have also chosen to lay a firm framework around creating a base for what must be the situation in the day institutions, and thus there has been equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216135839	Thank you. The question is over. However, we continue with questions to the Minister for Children and Education, and that remains with Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216135846	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216135849	What is the Minister's view that government policy leads to a distortion of competition between, on the one hand, municipal day-to-day offers and private self-serving day-to-day offers and, on the other hand, private day-to-day offers with the possibility of profit, all day-care providers and private passes?
ParlaMint-DK_20201216135903	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216135904	With the agreement on minimum standards, the government has chosen to give priority to raising the daily institutions. And children in crèches and kindergartens deserve more educators, adults, around them, so that they can thrive and develop and become part of a community of children. Therefore, from 2024 onwards, approx. 1.8 billion kr. more for our children, and of course as Minister I am extremely proud and happy that a majority in the Folketing has chosen to give priority to this. In all types of day care institutions, therefore, there will be more educational staff in the years to come, i.e. both the municipal and the self-employed day care institutions, but also private institutions that take up children themselves and do not have operating agreements with the municipalities. However, the parties to the agreement have at the same time agreed that the money allocated to our children should not be drawn out as a surplus in private institutions, just as it is in the case of free schools and private schools in Denmark; it is the same model that will apply here. In the current rules, instead of establishing itself as a proper day-care institution, it is possible to establish oneself as a so-called institution-like private care scheme with large groups of children, for example. rented premises, but without the quality and quality standards that characterise crèches and kindergartens. With the framework we have put in here, we ensure that institutions for our children will have the same high standards in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140030	Here you go, Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140032	Basically, however, the government and the Red Support Parties have chosen to discriminate against 64 500 children because their parents have used the free choice to choose to send their children either in day care, in a self-serving institution or in a private institution. And it is simply not true what the Minister says that quality requirements do not apply, for example. the private institutions. After all, exactly the same rules apply today in relation to our day-to-day legislation as apply to local authorities. In addition, the Minister has also replied in writing to me that the municipalities must not take and spend the money from the chartering promise and add it to, for example. day care, to the self-serving institutions or to the private institutions, so as to achieve equality of the children's group in the municipalities. Because that is where the government and the support parties have decided that that proportion of the children should not benefit from the aid. As I mentioned before, it means that over 54 percent. of the children in Thisted Municipality do not take part in the child's vow. In the municipality of Sønderborg, where I live, it is 26.3 per cent. of the children, who then do not take part in the child's promise, which we otherwise politically agree on here in the Folketing. And I think it is extremely regrettable and sad that the government has this ideological approach to the whole area of children, which is not about ensuring a high quality in all the offers, but is about the fact that there are apparently some offers that have a form of organisation that the government does not like, and that is why the children who go to those institutions should not have a part in the promise. It's really sad and too bad. The second sad and unfortunate thing that lies in the government's financial law agreement is, after all, what the government calls a profit ban, in other words, basically a ban on the forms of organisation of private institutions, as we know them today. It is also a pity that the government is going in and undermining the economy of the private sector, as is the case with the agreement. And this means that there will be fewer offers for parents to choose from, because the government apparently needs so much that it must all be municipal offers that are similar, rather than respecting the freedom of parents and also respecting the parents' right to be able to come together, for example. to set up a private institution, as is known under the legislation today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140234	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140235	They still have to. So, I know that exaggeration promotes understanding, but it is simply incorrect what is being said and from end to end, I almost want to say. What we are proposing is to make the same type of legislation as we know from free and private schools. And as the rapporteur is aware, because I know that the rapporteur has been following the area for incredibly many years, there has been growth in free and private schools. This means that with these rules there is absolutely nothing to prevent there even being growth in the amount of private institutions in Denmark, just as we have seen for free and private schools. That is why it has to be said that what is at stake here is to ensure that the money goes to the children so that they are not taken out as profits, but that is why it is easy to run private institutions under the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140318	Then it's Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140319	After all, I have been asking for almost a year for the Minister to provide evidence of which institutions it was that took out the money for purposes that were not about the children. The Minister has come up with two historical, cold examples of this, but has not been able to give any examples. Nevertheless, it is opting for legislation that basically hinders all our private institutions and our private pass as they look today, and I simply do not understand that. But the government must have such a huge ideological problem with the free choice of parents that it will no longer respect the forms of organisation that lie in the law today, and that is a pity.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140356	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140357	There are no obstacles to free elections. In other words, there will be the same rules as for free and private schools, and I really think that most people in Denmark know very well that it is possible to choose a free school or private school if you are not happy with the municipal offer. I also think that most people in Denmark know that there has actually been growth in the number of free and private schools. So it is just to say that it is quite the same rules as not having to take out surpluses that will apply here, and if the rapporteur himself thinks that there are not very many of them, then surely there is no problem either. Today's day-care institutions can continue to be private; they just cannot take money out. So they can continue...
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140437	Thank you. The Minister for Children and Education Sorry). It's fine. Then it is Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby for her last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140441	But it is basically about envy on the one hand and, on the other, about the government apparently thinking that they are better at choosing on behalf of the children than the parents are. ♪ 'Cause this is gonna ♪
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140518	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140519	I am a little unsure about where that envy actually occurs, because there are similar rules in relation to parental pay, whether you choose one form or another: if you have a child in your own institution, the same parental payment rules apply as do the other. So I do not quite understand what this really means, and I would say that it is important for me that the money is spent on children and not on paying out profits. I think it is fine, and I actually think the Social Democrats were involved in setting up the very first free kindergartens, i.e. self-serving institutions in Denmark, so it is a tradition that we celebrate and that can continue well under the rules that are going to be here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140559	We thank the Minister and we thank Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. And we are also grateful to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby for drinking off. Then we are ready for the next question. It's for the Secretary of Defense from Mr. Kim. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140620	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140623	Thank you, President. Hello, Minister. Is it the Minister's view that the Minister owes it to the soldiers who took part in the so-called operation mink killing who exactly issued the order for their participation in this operation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140640	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140641	But again, sir. Marcus Knuth, may I repeat that I consider it irresponsible to undermine the public's confidence in defence by continuing to tour around with an incorrect interpretation of the facts about defence support for the FDA's mink effort. As I have already explained and repeated in this Chamber, no one has carried out any operation mink killing. The defense has supported a civilian authority, the FDA, who requested support. The defence has supported the FDA's efforts since 8 October, and this has been done on the basis of section 7 of the Defence Act. I have answered this repeatedly and stated that the defence is entitled to support the Danish Food and Agriculture Authority in section 7 of the Defence Act. The defense hasn't killed mink.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140732	Thank you, Minister. I think it is a pity that we have to stand here again. Many of the questions we ask are very, very simple and we do not get clear answers to this. This isn't some personal vendetta against the minister. That's because we don't get answers. Now I am here with a clear question in relation to a facebook message from a military officer in the Emergency Board, Axel Aaby. I'd say this hasn't been verified, but he writes that he's been involved in catching mink and that he's been involved in killing mink. And this is signed by 23 out of 24 of his conscript colleagues. The Minister has also just said here that soldiers have not participated in mink killing; that the defence has not participated in mink killing. I'm familiar with the Department of Defense Department. Can the Minister explain that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140815	So, I would like to take this opportunity today to thank the officials and employees of the defense and the Home Guard and the preparedness, who have made an impressive effort since March, unselfishly and with the only desire to take care of Denmark and the Danes. And frankly, I do not understand why Conservatives continue to tour the wrong premises for their defence-related questions, namely that the defence should have done something that was illegal. I don't think that's what you've been defending. Marcus Knuth, with the question that seems to be somewhat outside of what has been asked for today, confuses two things: that with outside and within the zones.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140851	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140852	First of all, we don't tour around with anything. We're asking if legal orders have been given. Now I'm just asking, and this is very clear: Has the Emergency Board been involved in killing mink? It is a very simple yes-no question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140904	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140905	Nothing illegal has happened. The defense has been legalized for everything they've done. And I'm well aware that the Emergency Board hasn't killed mink no.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140918	Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140919	That's very interesting. As I said, this isn't verified, but if it turns out that this letter on Facebook is true, and that the Emergency Agency's conscripts have
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140935	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140935-2	Well, now you're trying, sir. Marcus Knuth, of course, with an old trick, that's the thing about just twisting the words. Because there's a difference between helping to handle the mink effort and killing mink. As far as I'm concerned, the Emergency Department, just like the defenses, doesn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216140952	Thank you. The question is over. We will continue with questions to the Secretary of Defense and continue from Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216141001	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216141003	Thank you, President, and thank you again to the Minister. Does the Minister think that the Danish soldiers should have been withdrawn from Danish mink farms with non-infected crews outside the so-called infected zones at the same time as it is discovered that there is no legal basis behind the Prime Minister's order to knock down all Danish mink herds?
ParlaMint-DK_20201216141020	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216141021	As I have said on a number of occasions, the defense can support other authorities in their task solution on the basis of Article 7 of the Defence Act. Danish society benefits greatly from the fact that the defence is running when more hands and heads are needed at short notice, whether it be storms, floods or disease. In this particular case, it was the Danish Food and Agriculture Authority that asked for support for their action against the coronasmit in mink, which was coordinated under the leadership of the National Operational Staff, the NOST. The defence made employees and capabilities available to the FDA on the basis of Section 7 of the Defence Act. The tasks performed by the employees are, on the consent of the growers, to count mink and complete the survey. I think it's perfectly reasonable for the defense to contribute to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216141112	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216141112-2	The minister has repeatedly said that the defense has solved these tasks according to section 7 of the Defence Act. I am sure that the Minister has read the Agricultural Newspaper today, which has been given access to, among other things, information. An e-mail from the Chief of Defense. The boss writes internally and points out the double legal framework: As mentioned, however, it is important to be aware of the dual legal requirement: The authority requesting assistance must of course be able to make the request legally. If they ask the defense to do something that is illegal for themselves, then as a clear starting point it will also be illegal for the defense. Has the Secretary of Defense checked whether there was a double legal basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20201216141154	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216141155	Unlike Mr. Marcus Knuth, I have read the entire article and also the entire correspondence in the Agricultural Newspaper. There is the whole correspondence, as I said. And after the lawyer in the Ministry of Defence has drawn attention to the double legal home, the whole of two, namely the Chief of Defense and the Chief of Department, answer that this is precisely why it is so important that the defence's tasks are within the scope of Section 7 of the Defence Act. So there's not gonna be any mink killed. The defense only carries out tasks which are legally required in § 7. So I can recommend Mr. Marcus Knuth, especially when he comes to the Chamber, to reproduce all correspondence and not just extracts from them, for it gives a false insight.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216141235	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216141236	Dear Minister, that is what I am doing. And exactly the chief of defense, Bjørn Bisserup, answers back:... and the defence has just taken the view that the authorities have generally carried out an assessment of the legal basis, and the defence has not made a concrete assessment of the question of the task has an expropriative nature. So now I ask again: Has the Secretary of Defense himself checked whether there was a double legal basis? It is very simple to answer either yes or no to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216141301	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216141302	But the correspondence makes it quite clear that there are no illegal tasks or tasks which are not governed by the law on the part of the defence. It is precisely not a matter of tasks in which no agreement has been reached in advance and thus the consent of the growers that one should enter and count mink, and this is quite clear from the correspondence. So I again think this is an example of Conservatives trying to distrust our defenses. Actually, I don't think that's fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216141331	Sir. Marcus Knuth for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216141332	We're not trying to distrust the defense. We have the greatest love of defense. We just want honest answers from the Minister. I repeat again. If the defense supports an authority that does something illegal for themselves, then it is clear that it is also illegal for the defence. It turns out that the Prime Minister's order did not have a legal basis, that the police, as defence support, did not have a legal basis, so now I ask again: did the Minister investigate whether there was a double legal basis, that is, exactly what the chief lawyer warned about yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20201216141403	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216141403-2	Well, this is exactly what this correspondence is all about, that is, that there is a minister who has said that we solve only tasks for which there are legal obligations, and both the Chief of Defense and the Head of Department confirm that the defense alone solves tasks that lie within Article 7 of the Defence Act. And that is, as I have said many times in this Chamber to Mr. Marcus Knuth, who then seems to find it difficult to hear, because I have been concerned that the defense has had a legal basis throughout to solve the tasks that the defense has solved. And the defense has had it. And no matter how many times I have to go down here and answer it, the answer does not change.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216141439	That concludes the question. Thank you to the Minister, and thank you, Mr President. Marcus Knuth for the question. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201216141454	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday, December 17th, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
