ParlaMint-DK_20201126100018	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Children and Education (Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil): Bill no. L 114 (Proposal for a law amending the law on temporary measures in the field of children's education and folk high school and for the free public awareness activities to prevent and remedy covid-19. Bill No. L 115 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Vocational Training Institutions and the Law on Vocational Training. Mort Messerschmidt (DF) and Pia Kjærsgaard (DF): Request no. F 24 (Will the Minister of Justice state whether, in the light of the recent disclosure of the government's and other parts of the executive's act, he maintains his arguments against the creation of a Constitutional Council, as expressed in the Parliament's debate of 19 May 2020, or whether the government today looks with more positive spectacles at setting up a body that can assist the Folketing in monitoring the government's and other administration's compliance with laws in general and the constitution in particular?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Members of the Folketing Fatma Øktem (V), Karina Adsbøl (DF) and Alex Vanopslagh (LA) and others. I have been informed that they want to withdraw the following proposals: proposals for a parliamentary resolution on equal access to psychological assistance for men and women exposed to violence. 43). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126100127	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126100147	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. Before starting the vote, I would ask each Member to check that the correct name is on the voting panel to be used for the vote. There are Members who are just finding possible seats where they can vote against. It seems that all those Members who would like to vote on the urgent question have found seats and checked the panels. We shall start the vote. There are four proposals for adoption, and first we shall vote on the motion for a resolution. 15 by Jep Bruus (S), Carl Valentin (SF) and Peder Hvelplund (EL), and voting is possible. That concludes voting time. In favour of voting 43 (S, SF and EL), against voting 55 (V, DF, RV, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 15 has been rejected. Secondly, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 14 by Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen (RV), Søren Pape Poulsen (KF) and Alex Vanopslagh (LA), and voting is possible. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 48 (V, DF, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique UFG)), against voting 52 (S, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 14 is rejected. The vote will then be taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 16 by Jens Rohde (RV), and a vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 9 (RV), against voting 76 (S, V, DF, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG), 1 SF (by mistake) and 1 EL (by mistake)), abstention 13 (SF, and EL). Proposal for adoption No F 16 is rejected. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) V 17 by Pernille Vermund (NB), and a vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 20 (DF, KF, NB and LA), against voting 79 (S, V (by mistake), RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), abstention 0. Proposal for adoption No V 17 is rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126100636	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126100658	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 55 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against voting 43 (DF, KF, NB, LA and V (by mistake)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126100735	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126100749	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 98 votes (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against 0 abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126100825	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126100841	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour 92 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 8 (EL). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126100911	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126100926	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 100 votes (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against 0 abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126100955	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126101009	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 100 votes (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against 0 abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126101040	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126101102	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126101121	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Jep Bruus, Social Democracy, and Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126101149	After all, this proposal arises from a very, very serious situation in which we in the Defence Intelligence Service have seen a very violent criticism from the supervision, which has pointed out that there have been both chiefs in the Defence Intelligence Service who have misled the supervision, we have seen that the supervision says that this is an inappropriate culture of legality, where problems are being tried out, and in general they also point out that there is an illegal collection of information and that there may be large amounts of information being passed on to Danish nationals. These are all really, really serious criticisms which we need to examine properly. That is why I have always supported the fact that the government wanted to open an investigation into this case. I just think that we are now in a place where we can see that the study is simply not good enough as it is. It is really worrying that this investigation is so toothless and dark that it is simply difficult to trust that things are being properly examined, and one of the things that we on the Enhedslist think is really, really important is in fact that we address all the criticisms raised by the supervision when they made the criticism of the Defence Intelligence Service. For that is not the case: all the criticisms are not included in this study as it now stands, and that is one of the things that we want to correct today. That is why we have tabled a number of amendments, such as: We have to look at all these points of criticism. One of the most recent cases we have had before us is the question of whether the Americans have carried out industrial espionage in Denmark and have also used F for this purpose, and that is one of the things that we will have the opportunity to examine if you vote for our amendments here, which in fact say that all matters must be examined. Because supervision already says in their report that they are simply concerned that there has been espionage in the area of the Ministry of Defence to which there is no proper response. So that's one of the things I'm gonna encourage you to do. Our proposal is also about the presentation of the terms of reference for this study so that we can see what is actually going to be investigated here. It is absolutely absurd that we do not know, and I simply do not believe that such a gifted man as the Minister of Justice, with a whole ministry in his back, has been unable to create a commission which we could all see and which does not contain anything that is compromising the security of the empire. It should simply be possible to put something together in this way. We have also had a discussion along the way, in which we have seen that former members of the Parliamentary Control Committee have actually stood up and said: we are concerned that we have been misled, whether we have been given the right information in the Control Committee. That is deeply worrying. That is why we have asked that it was also an element to be included in this study. We can't even get confirmation of that. I think it is very inadequate for our democracy that we cannot have collective support for it. In particular, I think that it should lie to the right of parties such as the SF and Radicals, who usually pride themselves on defending legal certainty and democracy, that we should actually be able to vote in favour of these amendments. We have based many of these proposals directly on the criticism made by the Institute of Human Rights in relation to this proposal, where they say that there is simply so much secrecy about the way in which this commission of inquiry is done that it does not work and that it cannot be expected that the people can trust it here. There is an opportunity to rectify this if we vote in favour of our amendments. Because I think it is extremely important that we have a clear assurance that in Denmark it is also our intelligence services that have to comply with the law, it is all of us, and that is why I think it would be very good if we could agree to strengthen this committee of inquiry now, so that it can actually be something that can give people some confidence. That was what was supposed to be the intention, but it simply cannot at this stage. That is why I have also asked the Minister to come up and comment on some of the amendments that we have. Because I think it is important that we have a debate on this. Then I can say as one last thing, namely that the Enhedslisten, on reflection, can actually support the Left's Amendment No. 8 to 7, which is about a better opportunity to summon witnesses. And I hope that this thoughtfulness here can also inspire others to think that it is not too late to do the right thing and vote for the amendments tabled by Enhedslisten. In fact, I think our democracy deserves that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126101636	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur, who has asked for the floor, is the Social Democrat, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Jeppe Bruus. I understand that it is both the Minister and the rapporteur who wish to speak, and it is logical that it is the rapporteurs who have the floor first and then the Minister in the end. That'll be the normal order. So it's the rapporteur, Mr. Jeppe Bruus, first.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126101748	I regret the confusion, there is just a little procedure. When I take the floor now, it is to ask that we take it back to committee before we have the second reading in this Chamber. So I hope Parliament's support for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126101806	There's now Mr. Knox. Jep Bruus of the Social Democratic Party proposed that the debate on L 53 be stopped and that the proposal be referred back to committee, and the debate be suspended in such a way that a representative from each of the groups can speak for or against this interruption, if one so wishes. So does anyone want to make a statement? As this is not the case, we can proceed to the vote on the proposed interruption if you wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126101944	However, since no one has expressed a wish for a vote on it, it is so that no vote has been requested, and that is why, in the light of the opinion that has been delivered, I shall consider the proposal that the matter be stopped and that the proposal should now be referred back to committee, as adopted. It's agreed. The next item is item on the agenda. 10, but it will only come on after approx. Ten to twelve minutes, because I am going to postpone the sitting so that we can have the pressure screens cleaned and in the meeting management and voting system the Members who will be taking part in the debate moved back to the normal places. So I must ask everyone to leave the Chamber in good order. The sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 10.35.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126103504	Then the meeting will resume. The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126103530	The motion for a resolution here obliges the government to draw up a model for faster and more flexible practical assistance and care for people with disabilities. Let me start by stating that the intention behind the proposal is very good, because there is a need for rapid and flexible practical assistance and care for people with fast-moving diseases such as AIDS. als. If you are diagnosed, you suddenly find yourself standing overnight in the miserable situation of being affected by a rapidly progressive disease that turns upside down on everyday life and quickly exacerbates living conditions, both for the sufferer himself and for the family. With a rapidly progressive disease such as als, you quickly become addicted to e.g. aids and help from others, and that in itself will be an unfamiliar and undesirable situation for many. We are talking here about people who, from one day to the next, may experience losing their walking function or losing power in their hands. Suddenly they can no longer lift a fork to their mouths or provide personal care, as they have done in their entire lives. We have heard of cases involving processing times of up to one year. And even if everything else is equal to individual cases, the need of the group of people in the time it takes to deal with the matter can also be reduced if it is less time to change many times. And if the municipality's proceedings are not fast enough, then the aid will already be inadequate and inaccessible when it arrives. What is, for example, what is going on here? a walker worth when in the meantime a person has suddenly lost his walking function and needs a wheelchair instead? With the prospect of a life with a loss of function and a marked change in living conditions, I understand that hopelessness and frustration are emerging. In this situation, it is vital that we get the Community immediately and get the necessary help. Time with the disease should not also be spent on anxiety and insecurity. In the years in which people with progressive diseases have left to live, they must not stand alone with their illness or with an unmet need for help, no, here society must step in with quick and effective help, which can be adapted to what the individual and his family need. With the right help and support, you can achieve increased quality of life in the last, difficult time and perhaps even extend the period during which you can still maintain your job and live an active life. Thus, people with progressive diseases such as all sorts of diseases do not have to fight both their illness and the system to make everyday life tolerable in such an unhappy situation. It shouldn't be a fight to get help. Although the government understands and agrees with the intention behind the motion for a resolution, we cannot support it anyway, and this does not mean that we are indifferent to people with all kinds of things, on the contrary, but the target group of the proposal is too narrow and will help too few people. Because it is not only people with als who experience rapid and unexpected loss of function that change their need for help and support overnight. This applies to all people who are suffering from rapidly progressive diseases such as AIDS. Huntington's disease and Spielmeyer-Vogt's disease. Huntington's disease and Spielmeyer-Vogt's disease are both hereditary progressive diseases that attack the central nervous system and gradually weaken motor skills and change the personality and intellect of the person concerned. The consequences can be very severe, for example. dementia for people with Huntington's disease or epilepsy and mental impairment for people with Spielmeyer-Vogt's disease. People affected by these very serious diseases, therefore, like als patients, need faster and more flexible help from the municipality when their disease develops and their living conditions are rapidly deteriorating. Therefore, the government will identify the scope of the target group and, on that basis, propose a concrete model that provides faster and more flexible help to people with rapidly progressive diseases. We will look at whether we can link up a model that can set the framework for a faster procedure in the municipalities. Just in such cases, I think that there is reason for the municipalities to give priority and to put some citizens in the front line, as well as for the identification of some types of aid that the municipalities must always assess in each case, or that may be a framework for how to follow up the aid in such cases. Such a model would have to ensure that the municipalities' procedures would be swift, that they would be effective and that they would be flexible. This, of course, requires a certain amount of funding, and it would also apply to a narrower model such as the one proposed by the proposers. So I hope that the government can get support from the Folketing so that we can ensure that people with rapidly progressive diseases can get the right help at the right time. So let me briefly sum up here: the government fully understands the intentions of the proposal. However, we cannot support the proposal because we believe that the target group is too narrow. Instead, we want to work for a model that hits a wider target group and that does not distinguish between various rapidly progressive diseases; a model that will create better transitions and more coherent help for a wider group of people than the proposal suggests; a model that ensures that citizens are offered the right help more quickly; and makes the system a player in the fight against the disease, a model that will ensure that people with rapidly moving disease can live a good and safe life in, unfortunately, a few years they may have left. So thank you for the proposal and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126104113	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the Minister from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126104119	How happy it is that the Minister wants to expand the target group. As rapporteur for the disabled, I have put forward several proposals here in the Parliamentary Chamber, among others. About the suspensive effect, where it was considered that the target group was too broad and therefore could not support the proposal. So now we have made a proposal that contained Torben Mikkelsen's solutions about an als startup package and now the target group is too narrow. In the Danish People's Party we would like to be involved in extending the target group, so I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister will be involved in the government making an amendment, so that we have an amendment to the resolution, and so that we extend the target group. It is very important for the Danish People's Party that people get the help they need, and we would very much like to expand the target group. We also believe that it should be the case today that, according to the provisions of the legislation, we need the help we need, and we need it quickly. And there is no point in fighting against a system in order to get the help you need. So my question to the Minister is: will the Minister be in favour of an amendment so that we can adopt it here by a broad majority in the Parliamentary Assembly?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126104229	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126104230	Thank you. I think it is one of the things that makes the most impression on all of us when we hear about these terrible fates; about people who are hit so hard in life with such a hard blow, it is for the individual and for family and relatives, when you get a serious fast-moving disease, and then we hear about their frustrations in the fight against the system. I simply do not think that any of us in this Chamber will be very affected by those reports. I believe, however, that as a minister I should refrain from interfering too much in the way in which you deal with the motion for a resolution here. I think that the committee will normally draw up a joint report if we agree that this is something that we can gather together on, that is to say to create a broader model. And that's what I'd just like to think was pleasing. I think it would be a good thing to have as broad a support as possible, but it is you in committee and not me as a minister who deals with the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126104318	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126104319	Oh, I'm sure the minister has a little something to say anyway. So I would like to continue to hear whether the Minister will be involved in drafting an amendment. In other words, we can ask a question in committee whether the government will be involved in making an amendment so that we get that target group in and get it made wider. I think it is incredibly positive that the government wants to expand its target group, because this should not be a fight against the system. So we accept that with a kiss hand from the Danish People's Party and are definitely in on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126104348	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126104349	But basically I serve both as a minister and my ministry and that is how I hope you see it. Of course, you always see the committee in committee, whether it is a legislative proposal or a motion for a resolution, and whether it is a report text or an amendment or what the committee decides to do. I will not interfere with that, but just say that I think it is only gratifying if it is something that we can gather around widely in the Parliament and, of course, because what I mentioned will require funding to do this; there must also be somebody who helps to carry it through.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126104417	So thank you to the Minister. We now come to the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Daniel Toft Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126104431	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking Mrs Karina Adsbøl and the Danish People's Party for the resolution. I am glad that we can have a discussion on this important and also serious issue in the Chamber today. I am even more pleased that the Minister also says so clearly that something needs to be looked at here and that the government will propose a model for ensuring faster and more flexible help for people with rapidly progressive diseases, both als-patients and people with other rapidly progressive diseases. I very much agree with the Minister that the best thing would be to create a model that does not distinguish between different types of fast-moving diseases, but where we come all the way around. That is why I also perhaps not so surprisingly agree with the Minister that we should have identified the scope of the target group and that we should try to create a model for faster and more flexible help for all people affected by a rapidly progressive disease. Because there is a need for improvement in this area. This is not acceptable when we hear examples of people having to wait so long to get help that their need for help has actually changed and may have become much, much greater in the meantime. In relation to the specific motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, we think that the intention is super-good, it highlights a very, very important area, but we also think that it is a problem that only one out of several fast-moving diseases is taken into account. We cannot back that up. In the Social Democratic Party we support the government's approach, and I hope, of course, that a majority in here will also do so. I believe and hope that here in the Folketing we can stand together to improve the conditions for these people who are in a really, really difficult situation, because that is very much needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126104631	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126104636	Thank you. This is one of the things that we're dealing with here. That Torben, who has always been in the presence of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, has presented this solution in collaboration with the Muscle Loss Fund, in other words with regard to start-up packages. But I would also like to sign and say that it is incredibly positive that, for once, we have a government that wants to expand a target group, which will help more. I would like to express my positive views on this, because I have repeatedly seen that it usually goes the opposite way. That is why I would like to hear from the Socialist rapporteur whether the rapporteur will be involved in the drafting of an amendment in committee so that we can ensure that this gets through. Because I understand it's about this going through. Then we can discuss the economics, and my position and opinion is that the municipalities are now obliged to deliver, but that they deliver too slowly. And that means you don't get the help before your illness is very advanced. But I would like to know whether the Social Democratic Party in the committee procedure is in agreement, for example. to make an amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126104751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126104753	I am just very pleased that it sounds like we are very much in agreement. And there is no reason to stand and invent a greater disagreement here than there is in reality. My immediate message, with my poor experience of legislative work, is that the most natural thing will be to make a joint report. The important thing for us is that we do it very much as widely as possible so that it will work out in reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126104820	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126104823	I would like to acknowledge that the Socialist rapporteur is willing to take a look at this, but my concern is that it may delay the process. Well, I'd like action to be taken now. We have seen numerous examples of people who have not received the help they need, that they have to fight to get the help they need to live one, you might say, about life with the disease they have and that is to say, they get the aids they need and the lessons they need. So I look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126104902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126104904	I agree that there is no process to be delayed. I believe that the motion for a resolution by the rapporteur and others states that the government must come up with a model before the end of the current parliamentary year, and such a formulation could also be written into a report. Because it is absolutely right that nothing should be delayed. It is important that we do this and preferably as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126104929	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126104944	Thank you for the floor, President. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, als, is awful to pronunciation, but even more awful to be affected by, especially because the disease als develops gradually, occasionally unpredictable and quite often quickly. Although the disease only affects about 400 people every year, it is certainly not a joke. As most people in this Chamber will know, it is extremely unhappy to be hit by anything. Suddenly, you cannot do what you could before because you suffer from muscle loss, muscle tension and muscle pain. The body and the nervous system just don't partner very much anymore. Moreover, you can have difficulty breathing, and last but not least, the disease can have a terrible effect on your mental health and condition, precisely because in many cases it turns everything upside down overnight, from one's life situation to one's self-perception to the amount of help you need. And the latter is not entirely unimportant. Because are we good enough to help those who get hit by anything? Are we giving them today the help they need and when the need arises? This might well suggest that we do not, which is why I am also glad that the Danish People's Party has tabled this motion for a resolution, B 41, which therefore calls for the government to draw up a model that makes aid for als patients quicker and more flexible. Of course, there is no point in imaginative management and sluggish procedures preventing als patients from getting the help they need, whether it is about getting the necessary mobile lift or more care hours, for example. As the disease gets worse. For these reasons, the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party welcomes and, for the same reason, the Left, even when we were in government, has had its eyes on everything. Thus, when we were in government, we set aside a pool to improve aid for als patients, and with the SSA reserve that has just been concluded, we have helped to continue the good initiative. However, although the Left has not been on the left side, there is unfortunately much to suggest that we have not done well enough, or rather: there is something that indicates that the system has not been and is not geared to organizing the aid in the way that als patients need. As in so many other cases, problems arise when a categorical cash register, as the government is, meets human fates that do not fit in the pre-defined boxes of the public sector when time runs out of schedule and when a disease develops faster than the amount of help one can get. Yes, as we in the Left like to say, it is important that the state exists for the citizen and not vice versa; that man comes before the system. Whether man has come before the system and whether the needs of als-patients have been and are sufficiently central, indeed we doubt that. I therefore hope that this motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party will find solid support among the parties of the Danish Parliament. However, I must stress that although the Left is very much in favour of this motion for a resolution, the introduction of faster and more flexible aid for als-patients requires a thorough discussion of the economy behind it. In short, does the money Passe? I have to say that, because that is something we in the Left are concerned about. In addition, we also fully agree with the Social Democrats that we can look with benefit at whether this proposal can be extended to other rapidly progressive diseases, but that should not, of course, prevent us from helping als-patients. So, to put it a little differently, the Left looks forward to the committee reading and hopes that we will be able to arrive at a joint report on a solution that is better for als patients than the current one. That is to say, one who helps more than is the case today, one who puts the citizen and the patient at the centre. I hope that much can be done. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126105358	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party, who shares her speaking time, so that she can speak both now in the rapporteur's line and finally after the debate. Welcome to Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126105412	Thank you, President. In the Danish People's Party, we want a model to be developed for faster and more flexible help and care for als patients. The disease alls is hard and fast progressive for those who are being affected. When you are suffering from illness, you should not at the same time struggle with a system to get the help you need. There must be a flexible system and you must not fight to set up your hours in a BPA scheme. Unfortunately, there are numerous examples of this, and I would like to read a quote from an als-patient who describes the situation, which I find incredibly well described: The period from diagnosis to death is a period in which life must be fully lived and time must be spent on the right thing. The right thing to do in my eyes is not to fight to be heard or to fight with the municipality to be allowed to live a dignified life. It is also not right to wear out my family physically and psychologically, because they must take care of what should be a matter of course on the part of the municipality. The right thing is that I should be allowed to spend my last time with my family and those I care about most, and the resources should be spent in the right places. I refuse to accept the treatment of the municipalities, and I will fight until I can't do it anymore, so that others don't go through what I've done. It's unworthy and grotesque. I agree. We're gonna have to make this better as a society. Another example is Søren's fight. Sør's struggle with the municipality has been for the time being four years. It's the title of an article from the Muscle Dwindling Foundation. It works hard on both the physics and the psyche, when you constantly have to fight with the municipality to get the help you need, and when the help comes after a trip around the Ankestyrelsen, the disease has developed so much that the help is no longer sufficient. Then further help must be sought, and it all begins again. This is how Søren experienced the situation. Søren has been diagnosed with a disease that develops rapidly and causes more and more paralysis in the body. Søren doesn't have the strength to come forward, but in the hope that it can improve conditions for others, he has allowed the Muscle Dwindling Foundation to present his case. The Ankestyrelsen has ruled out Søren seven times. For more than four years, Søren has been struggling with his municipality. Seven times he has had to send a case to the Ankestyrelsen because the municipality rejected his application for help. All seven times, according to the Ankestyrelsen, there has been good reason to appeal. As a society, we simply cannot be aware of this, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party want to take as our starting point the proposals for solutions from the Muscle Dwindling Foundation and Torben, which are described in this proposal for a starter package. The Danish People's Party proposes that the rules for process and processing times be changed. The changes must ensure that patients with als should not apply for practical assistance every time a new need arises due to worsening of the disease. Als patients need to be helped when the need arises and not years later. We are hoping for a great deal of support for this proposal and we are very willing to make the proposal even better. Several examples have been given. I remember reading about Simone. Simone Hansen from Haderslev also had to fight with her municipality for every aid she ever needed, and the municipal explanation was in her case that they are not used to citizens feeling so badly so quickly. I think that we in Parliament have an obligation to correct this, and then I look forward to the further consideration of this proposal. And I should like to welcome the new citizens and say that they also support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126105848	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Henrik Vinther. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126105901	Thank you for the floor. As the rapporteurs and the Minister have already mentioned, everything is a terrible incurable disease that leaves the people who are affected with difficult lives and also a shorter life than the rest of us can look forward to. And that is why it is of course worrying that in order to get the help and support and care you need, as we have heard about here, the processing time can be as long as is the case. Unfortunately, however, this is a problem with which these patients are not alone. As several rapporteurs have also mentioned, there are other rapidly progressive diseases which affect similar situations, and for the individual it is a deeply unhappy situation, but at the same time it is an indication of a system error that the intention of the law for rapid and precise help is not being complied with. That is why there is good reason to look at the problem raised here by the rapporteur and the authors of the proposals. However, I think that, as the Minister and several rapporteurs have also mentioned, we should see it in context. After all, we would like to avoid that because one area comes into focus, the others slip into the background. It must be the whole area that is being lifted. I understand that other rapporteurs agree, in other words that the aim is good, that the problem is greater and that it requires an overall approach, and I look forward to that we are discussing in committee, preferably in order to land a joint report in which we go further into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126110018	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126110035	Thank you. Politics is about people, and that is why I would like to express my sincere thanks to the author, Mrs Adsbøl. It is very important that we address this issue and it is urgent. That's what tells the stories. I also believe that we all agree that everything is a terrible disease. It is a hugely aggressive disease in which patients experience worsening from week to week, perhaps from day to day. Of course, the needs of these patients increase very strongly and very quickly, and therefore patients with als and other rapidly progressive diseases often experience that while their need for help is dealt with in the municipality and while they may also be waiting for answers to their complaint in the Ankestyrelsen, yes, their need for help has only increased; and that when you have finally received help, it is not adequate at all. We must remember that when a patient experiences an increasing need for help, it is just a boring reminder to the citizen that his or her illness has become even worse. These citizens would prefer to be healthy and thus avoid having to reach out and ask society for help, but they therefore need help right now, and that should be met. This is also why, for a long time, the SF has been stressing the importance of people with rapidly progressive diseases, such as: • to ensure a more holistic approach, with inter alia: fast processing and quickly granted practical assistance. And that is also why we have spoken warmly for the so-called als-start packages, as the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party also mentioned, with the necessary aids and help hours from the day you get the disease. But we fear in the SF, as I also heard the Minister say, that the target group for the resolution may be too narrow. So we feel obliged to go a bit deeper in recognizing that there is a strong need for faster, better and more flexible help for both als-patients, but also other groups of citizens with similar serious and rapidly progressive diseases; it could be Huntington's disease and Spielmeyer-Vogt's disease. The SF notes with satisfaction that the Minister says that she is willing to go into the work forward. And we will clearly go further in this matter with a desire for, and certainly also with a very clear aim, that we should deliver quickly on a package, like this year. There we must have identified the scope of the target group and come up with a concrete model that will ensure the essential and necessary help for people with rapidly progressive diseases, so that new rules can enter into force as soon as possible. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands today, but we are looking forward to cooperation and hopefully later, and from what I can also hear the rapporteurs say so far, we are actually quite close to each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126110403	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126110408	It is such a rather strange struggle in relation to good proposals that are being discussed in the Parliamentary Chamber, where one has to find some argument with which one can shoot it down. But we in the Danish People's Party are willing to make an amendment. We are willing to expand the target group so that it contains more than 400 alt patients. They're talking a little bit back there, so I just have to... times that it's been the other way around. I have to hear SF: if we made a proposal for suspensive effect in relation to extending the paragraphs that are also there, because we narrowed the target group there, we did so in order to obtain a majority in the Parliamentary Chamber; now we want to expand the target group, and we are fully in favour of this, we will also help to expand the target group in relation to the suspensive effect, i.e. the alert scheme in section 3a of the Service Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126110508	In the interests of the current debate here in the Parliamentary Assembly, I would ask that other debates may take place outside the Parliamentary Chamber. Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur for the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126110518	Thank you. There's no doubt that when the SF goes into this work... it's something we've been working for for a long time... I expect that the work that's going to happen will be a cover-up of what it's about for some citizens, so we don't get anything done now that leaves others on the platform. That is also what is really important here. In addition, of course, there is also the whole question of the economy that we must have looked at, but most of all we think it is really important that we have a fully comprehensive solution to the problem. In relation to the problem of suspensive effect, that is clearly something we would be interested in working on, because it puts citizens in a stronger position, so that you cannot just be left on the platform. So we will certainly take that with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126110612	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126110613	It is, after all, just before we can make a broad report in the Committee on Social Affairs, on both the suspensive effect, a broader target group and a wider target group in this area. So it's amazing if we can make it. I fully agree that we should not leave anyone on the platform, not at all. So it is a good thing that more target groups are being brought in. In economic terms, I have to say that it is the case today that you have to deliver the aid and because you wait to deliver the aid when they do not get the help, and then it has to cost a lot of money, you have to understand. But that is something on which we must also discuss in committee. I certainly look forward to getting this country across, and I understand that the SF supports the proposal, but would like something more, and we also want to do so in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126110703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126110705	I think that what is important in this matter is that there is no struggle in who is doing the honour, but that, first and foremost, a very good proposal is being made that hits the right target group, and one will work well and thoroughly once we have taken the decision on how to encode such a package or such solutions. That is why I look forward to the fact that as many parties as possible will be involved in exactly the work ahead. I also think it is important that we be careful not to put everything into this, because we are not going to get what is needed done: some targeted packages just for these citizens' groups. That is not to say that this is something that needs to be written out, because we support the intentions about it, but we also need to focus on the problem we need to solve.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126110754	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Jakob Silver Mound. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126110805	It must be said to be deeply disgraceful that citizens with the disease must wait quite a long time for the necessary help not only when they first apply for help after the disease has been diagnosed, but also when the need for support changes due to the rapid progress of the disease. I think it is nothing less than heartbreaking when we hear and read about the reports we receive from citizens with all sorts and their relatives about the impact of the disease, and I think it is embarrassing to note that the aid offered depends very much on the locality in which the citizen lives. This is evidence of the need for a more fundamental political discussion on the organisation and distribution of tasks in the field of disability. Fortunately, that process has been initiated, but the wider discussion we are having and which we need to have on the future of the disability area must not, of course, stand in the way of us acting quickly and concretely to improve the conditions for citizens with all kinds of things. I would like to thank the Danish People's Party, thank Mrs Karina Adsbøl for raising the proposal that there should be a model for faster and more flexible practical assistance and care for als patients. It is obvious that the existing application process is both too slow and inflexible, and I think it is a shocking description, as Mrs Karina Adsbøl has also referred to the citizen, who says that for four years he has had to complain seven times about a municipality's decision, and that seven times the Ankestyrelsen has supported the citizen in question. I would say that each time it has delayed support for the citizen, and in a broader debate on disability policy about suspensive effect, etc. It must be said that yes, then it has probably saved the municipality all seven times during the course of the proceedings it has taken. I think it is obscene and unreasonable and we should do something about it. I welcome the fact that the Minister for Social Affairs has indicated that a way must be found quickly to ensure faster and more flexible help for the citizens we are discussing here. I also think it makes sense for us to spread the discussion. I agree that we should be careful not to make the best of the enemy of the good, because in the Enhedslisten we could easily live with the fact that we did something for the als patients at first, but when the government intervenes that we can also do something for patients with Spielmeyer-Vogt's disease and patients with Huntington's disease, then we fully agree that it makes sense to spread it out. I just want to say that when we want to go in and work for a joint report to spread it out, it is absolutely important for me and the Enhedslisten that this does not mean that we will have an unreasonable delay in this process. We are talking about a group of citizens who, horribly, live only a few years after the disease has been diagnosed, so it would be immoral and unreasonable if this were to lead to an extension of the process. I would say that I do not hear either, I hear that there is an undertaking that we should have a quick process, that we should have completed this work during this parliamentary year, and with that I would say that it satisfies very well the demands we have. So thank you once again to the proposers for the proposal, and also thank the Minister for agreeing that it will be taken care of. I hope that together in committee we can find a sensible model in which we will spread this proposal to other groups of citizens with similar or similar needs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126111231	From here, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Then I can see that the Conservative rapporteur is ready. Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126111240	Thank you and thank you to the Danish People's Party for bringing the debate to the Chamber. Als is a terribly aggressive disease in which the average lifetime with the disease without breathing problems is 2 to 3 years. Unfortunately, the cause of the disease is not known and, unfortunately, it cannot be cured. I myself had a very good female party colleague with whom I sat on the city council, who lost my life, only a year after the diagnosis was made. It was harsh to experience how aggressive the disease developed and how fast she became weaker and weaker and eventually had to give in. I agree that there is a need to look at how we make the case for practical assistance and care for als patients faster and more flexible. It doesn't work with such an aggressive disease that it can take up to a year or more. It must be possible to do better to take account of the fact that there is a rapidly developing disease in which a rapid approach to aid and support is required. On the conservative side, we are willing to discuss how we can change the process and the processing time in als cases so that things move faster. Whether it should be in a package form as the most appropriate, I would like to have a closer look, because perhaps it is not just a disabled car that everyone needs, perhaps it is something else from one size fits not all. It must be based on a concrete assessment of the need for help. That is why we, the Conservatives, are more concerned that we are in favour of looking at some sort of fast-track scheme in relation to these cases. However, as I said, we are in favour of a debate. However, we have reservations about the economic consequences, as I do not believe that this can be done without any negative economic consequences, which must, of course, be taken into account. However, as I said, we are in favour of discussing this here and we are also making a joint report in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126111529	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As I see no rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, I can again give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126111557	Thank you for today's debate. I can hear that there is a huge majority here in the Danish Parliament for us to ensure faster and better help for all patients. I'm really glad. At the same time, I would also like to thank Torben Mikkelsen, who has made this proposal on start-up packages together with the Muscle Dwindling Fund, where they have been able to tell us politicians what was needed, and I think it is so important in a democracy that we listen and that we act. After all, these are the people for whom we are elected and also elected to meet their needs and their wishes. So it is actually a great pleasure today to see a political majority who may not quite vote in favour of the Danish People's Party's proposal, but who wants more, and there I will find a solution to how we do it, either with an amendment to the motion for a resolution, which may involve additional disease groups, or we can also land a joint report. The most important thing, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur said in his speech, is that this should not take long. For this is simply about getting quick help and support to be and live in your everyday life and to relieve the families so that they can be together without having to think about applications and appeals in the Ankestyrelsen. That being said, I just always wonder about something when you talk about these things. It is actually the case that the municipalities are obliged to help people who need help under the Service Act, and when they do not provide the help they do not in these cases, in good time, then it is quite true that you risk saving because people who have this disease do not get the help they need. At the same time, they say this is going to cost a lot of money as well. But there is much to be wondered about in politics. At any rate, my great wish is that, after several years, we should finally adopt something that will help these people so that they can do so quickly and effectively. So I look forward to the committee reading, and I also look forward to either accepting an amendment that can be made by the government, which means that we are expanding the target group or that we can land a report, and I would like to thank the rapporteurs, who have all understood and also worked to make this community. But I just want to say that I hope that politics will not go into this, and unfortunately that is the case. But this is not just the proposal of the Danish People's Party that we have put forward in the Parliamentary Chamber, and it is in fact also Torben and the Muscle Disappearance Fund and all the citizens who have all fought to improve this area, and I think that is worth remembering. So thank you for the debate. I look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126111927	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors, Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126111944	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. It's sir. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126112003	Thank you for the floor. Today we are going to deal with a legislative proposal on which we can safely say there has been a little debate and which has given some attention, both here in the Danish Parliament, but also in the Danish media, namely a proposal on what the composition of the Radio and Television Board is like. And the bill here is, I suppose, relatively simple in its form. It's on three legs. The first leg of the bill is to strengthen the jury's competences, so that in the future there will be members with practical experience and media professionalism. That is not a requirement of the Radio and Television Board today. The demand for practical media skills arose particularly on top of the course and debate on the offer of the dab-sending permit last year. It is, of course, fundamentally positive that we can now change it, because it will mean that in a board that is working with the media, there will be more who have concrete and practical experience from the media industry. So we now have a board that will have better and wider competences in the future to solve the tasks that they are set up in the world to solve. Specifically, it will now be a requirement that at least 3 members of the jury have practical media skills, so that we do not miss critical knowledge, insight and experience from the people who work in the industry on a daily basis. This also means that there will be greater recognition of production skills, technical ingenuity and media craftsmanship. The second leg of the bill is about the appointment procedure. The proposal here will include 11 members, of whom the Minister appoints the 9, and out of the 9 appointed by the Minister, the Danish Media and the Danish Journalist Federation will have the opportunity to nominate candidates for 2 of the seats to represent the practical media profession. And it is basically common sense that the media industry itself is helping to stop and thereby influence the composition of the name. The third and final leg is to allow for the possibility of extending the time of all or some of the members of the board, so that the Minister for Culture will be able to extend the period. Although this draft law in its form may be simple, it is nevertheless important, because it is basically about trust: whether there is confidence that an independent board is able to make the right decisions and whether they have the competences needed to properly clarify matters and make the right decision. There have been doubts about this, and this has led to a great debate, which is why it is only right that we now have the legislative proposal to ensure that in future the Radio and Television Board has the right composition of competences to be able to decide matters within their area. It is also, of course, a matter of objectivity: when we, as legislators, place the power to decide cases to an independent board, we must, of course, also be sure that those cases are settled on a proper basis. This requires, among other things, that the members of the jury together have the right competences. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126112304	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126112308	Thank you. I fully understand the support of the Socialist rapporteur for the proposal that is before us. But does this mean that the Socialist rapporteur has cleared up the scandal or after the problems that were discovered about the last granting of a dab-sending permit? Or does the Socialist rapporteur still think that there are some things we should have done, perhaps not in connection with this bill, but that there are some things we need to have done to ensure that things are fairly decent?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126112345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126112346	I think I see it as a two-step rocket. Well, now we're starting with this bill, which deals with the competences of the board and the composition of the board, and it also makes sense because a new one has to be appointed on 1 January, when we get it in place. And then I also think it makes sense that we have a discussion about the rest of the setup around the mention.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126112406	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126112408	I'll just sign for that. I look forward to that, because it is quite obvious that this is only a very small but necessary corner to deal with, because the designation must be made on 1 January. But that is not at all adequate in relation to the major problems that were discovered.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126112425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126112426	I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126112431	So I would like to thank the Socialist rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Britt Baker. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126112447	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. The draft law that we are discussing here today has emerged, as has already been said, from the unfortunate management of the dab offer, to say the least. There have been doubts about and criticisms of the Radio and Television Board and their lack of practical experience in the media sector, and rightly so. For it was an unsightly course when the dab offer had to be decided and, frankly, as outsiders, the decision seemed strange. And strangely, it also seemed that the mention lacked media competence as part of all the competences that had been put together. But we are not going to go through the whole process of the dab-off and Radio LOUD, because then we could stand here all day today. I would like to acknowledge that with this proposal, the Minister is now expanding the Radio and Television Board and that there is a greater focus on the practical media sector being represented in the mention. In the Left, however, we are puzzled at the fact that this draft law does not provide for a right of appeal, given that we are still in a position to correct several parts of the law. We understand from the Minister's statement in the press that the right of appeal is something we need to look at in the media negotiations, and that is, of course, a good thing. But this is about legal certainty, and it is important, Minister. That is why we should now take a position on such a crucial issue. So we hope that the Minister will convene the parties of the Folketing for the media negotiations that have been announced since the government presented its understanding paper in the summer of 2019. We in the Left, of course, understand that the negotiations have been delayed because of the covid-19. But frankly, we think it is time for the Minister to present his proposal and call for negotiations so that the Danish media landscape can be sure of its future. Overall, we in the Left support this proposal, and we hope that the Minister will soon convene some media talks.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126112701	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Lise Bech. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126112708	Thank you for that, President. I am here today because our rapporteur in this area, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt, unfortunately could not be present, so I have a very, very short speech here. The recent decision on Radio LOUD has shown that the Radio and Television Board suffers from a worrying lack of media skills. It is quite clear that that decision was taken solely on the basis of economic considerations and not to ensure a good radio for the Danes. The consequence is that for the first time in Danish history we have a radio with absolutely zero listeners. This is obviously unacceptable. Therefore, it is good that there are more professional competences in the name, and the Danish People's Party can therefore support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126112751	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126112801	In other words, if it had been the original rapporteur who had been here, I would have asked a few questions about who it really seems to be responsible for, that it went as it did with Radio24syv. I am not quite sure that the Danish People's Party can be so free from having had a hand in the game but leave it at that. I have promised myself that I will not refer to the 'Radio schyy', so I will not do that, because basically this is not just a question of going into the specific case, and we have discussed everything about that dab offer so many times, and that is where it does. We also know that Radio24seven are not coming back as what we knew, and that's the way it is. In my 50-year life, I have been actively involved with radio for 22 years, and I have thus also had a lot of dialogue with previous radio and television boards. And it has always provoked me that there simply was no radio-professional competence or television-professional competence. As a radioman, it was the radio competence or the lack of the same thing you always encountered, because you can't make good radio with lawyers. That is why, for me personally, it is a historic bill that lies here from the Minister for Culture today. I would like to thank you very much for that. I think we owe this to the broadcasting industry and to all the people who work with these media, so that there is now a guarantee that you can get a professional sparring and not just a legal sparring about what is going on. I think it's super good. Thank you. Thank you to Mrs Britt Baker for a speech that struck the mark. Because I agree that there must be a right of appeal, but that can be decided in a tender procedure. I would like us to get it in one way or another, and I would also like to look at it if we can agree on some amendment. Perhaps I would urge the Minister to take it with him now. But, quite frankly, when you make an invitation to tender, we have to call it an invitation to tender, and one of the problems here was that we were suddenly told that it was not an invitation to tender but an award. And then we sat there and had nothing to do, because then there wouldn't have to be a right of appeal. But the next time we make an offer of some radio channel or a frequency, or whatever it may be, it's just to make it clear that it's a call for tenders. For then there is automatically a right of appeal, according to the contract notice and the administrative act. So we have to be aware of that. But maybe you could just fence it in and get it written in the law. I don't know. The lawyers must also look at whether there is a parity and whether it works. However, the point raised by Mrs Britt Baker is quite important. For part of the unhappy throughout this process was that there has been no right of appeal in connection with the award, as it is said, of the radio which is now there. It has to be the words from here. With a great deal of thanks to the Minister for Culture for finally getting concrete professional media skills into the Radio and Television Board after many, many years. It should be a matter of course, but it hasn't been. Let it be for the future. These were the words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126113238	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126113250	Thank you. I stand here today as a substitute for our rapporteur in this area, who unfortunately could not be here today. I'm gonna send him some warm thoughts from the platform. He's suffering from disease. The purpose of this bill is to change the composition of the Radio and Television Board's competence so that it has practical media competence represented. For SF, it is absolutely essential that the mention be composed in a way in which media knowledge and knowledge are sufficient and adequate to enable their decisions to be made on the best possible basis, as decisions are of great importance to both media consumers and media companies. However, we can understand from the consultation answers that several organisations, like the Danish Media and Danish Journalist Federations, would like to see more involvement in the process of recommending candidates to the jury. In a rapidly changing media image, we find that the right practical media skills are important, but we also consider it important that several relevant professional skills are represented in the mention, such as: skills on increased accessibility for people with disabilities. We therefore find it interesting that Danske Handicap organisations, in addition to the Radio and Television Board, propose the establishment of an advisory board with representatives of, for example, disability organisations who can provide external guidance and advice to media service providers in relation to increased accessibility. With this initiative, we could perhaps have avoided a global pandemic before sign language interpretation came at television press meetings where the government and other authorities in this country send out important information to citizens. This should have happened a long time before, and we must, of course, continue to do so in the future, while also developing new forms of accessibility. In the second part of the draft law, it is proposed that a legal basis be introduced to extend the term of appointment of the Radio and Television Board for a period of up to one year, and that may of course be reasonable enough. However, we consider it essential to clarify whether or not a re-election can take place and whether or not there is at all a limitation on how long a person may be a member of the Radio and Television Board. With these comments, the SF takes a positive view of the draft law and we look forward to the future work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126113518	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126113527	This proposal extends the Radio and Television Board from 10 to 11 members, and of the 9 appointed by the Minister, 2 seats are earmarked for people with practical media experience. And they are elected from 2 candidates nominated by the Danish Media and Danish Journalist Federation respectively, as has already been said. In the view of Enhedslisten, that makes sense. Experience has shown that in the work of the Radio and Television Board there is a need for people who have just a little sense of everyday life on a medium, be it a radio or a television station. In the consultations there have been proposals that a number of other competences should be earmarked to be included in the list, and the Minister has then chosen not to do so in this proposal. I think we can speak both for and against. What is clear, however, is that it is only the Minister's responsibility that this board contains the necessary competences in the various areas, in that the Minister himself appoints no less than 7 of its 11 members and has a great influence on another 2. I think the Minister should listen to the opportunity to create an advisory board that has emerged, among other things. from the last rapporteur, who may be able to, I would not say, relieve the responsibility of the Minister, but at least help to ensure that the various competences to be used are at hand. Things are moving fast at the moment, and it is also necessary to deal with and adopt this bill very quickly, so that the broader composition can take place from 1 January when the appointment period of the present Radio and Television Board expires. And after the whole affair with the dab channel I don't say Loud, but after the affair with the dab channel we don't see any reason why the current Radio and Television Board is longer than the maximum necessary. Speaking of the matter of the allocation of the dab channel, the question is whether we have cleared up thoroughly enough after this scandal. That is also why I raised the matter with the Socialist rapporteur. Because the impression I am left with is an extremely passive Radio and Television Board, which was largely based on information which was put in front of them at the last minute at the last minute. However, if this is to be changed, it will require more than a few members with media practice experience. Then we will also have to look at the entire secretariat service and how the mention takes much more ownership of the rather crucial decisions they make. I must honestly admit that the process we saw around this dab channel is very similar to the football match between the FCK and Randers the other day, when the FCK is Nicolai Boilesen after that game went out and said that there could have been the world's best coach on the coach bench. It hadn't changed the effort that was made on the track. And that was a perfectly correct comment. The effort made on the track was scandalously bad, and it would not have been possible to change that in any way, regardless of who had sat on the coach bench. And that is why we also need to find a model in which the members of the Radio and Television Board are presented not only at a short meeting, just before the decision is to be taken, but also actually take ownership of them. I think that model is crucial if we want to avoid seeing scandals like the one we have seen again. This last one isn't part of this bill, but it's something we can promise we'll get back to. I understand that a majority in the Folketing is also interested in this, and I am sure the Minister himself is, just as we must return to the possibility of appealing against the granting of broadcasting licences by the Radio and Television Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126113950	Thank you. There's just one question. Mrs. Britt Baker, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126113951	Thank you. First of all, I will sign for Mr. Søren Søndergaard's speech. It is very rare that I actually agree with Enhedslisten, so I would just like to say thank you for that. Then I would just like to draw your attention to one thing: in connection with this process of the dab-off, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard mentions, there was material that was added to the mention, and there were also correspondences back and forth between the name and the secretariat service. What was problematic was that, frankly, it worked what Mr. Søren Søndergaard also problematized, as if the mention did not go into the material. But it is fair to say that the mention had time to look into this material if they had bothered to do so. Then I'll just sign for the proposal that Mr. Søren Søndergaard mentions here, namely by looking at the whole structure. That is why it is just a request to the Minister that we should have a debate in committee on whether it is really now that we have to look at whether more needs to be done than just replacing three Members. Perhaps we should have a discussion in committee on whether we should also look at the setup itself and the secretariat service itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126114110	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126114112	Now Britt Baker and I have the disability in this discussion that our knowledge is based on having read materials that are confidential and that we must not refer from, and therefore we cannot go into the details. However, I would just like to say in general terms, and I think we agree, that if we had gone into the material that was, and would like to do so earlier, some questions would have been asked which were clearly not asked. Having said that, it is just to underline the point that it is not enough that there are some people with a lot of knowledge. They must also have the time and form for it, so that the guidelines must be established in such a way that no one else is expected to take care of them. That is what was my point, and that is also why I said that we should look at the secretariat service. But yes: It is not often that the Enhedslisten and the Left agree. It is not, however, a world sensation either, but I think we are on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126114221	Thank you. Next is Mrs Birgitte Bergman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126114229	Thank you. Then I'll start by signing off to Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard and say that the Conservative People's Party also shares the rapporteur's views on secretarial assistance and that we need to look all the way around. It's really, really important. So there you have a friend in the Conservative People's Party too. It is good that we are now strengthening the Radio and Television Board. It has been a strange process and it has formed the background for a lot of questions and a lot of unanswered questions. This is particularly true in view of the supply of the new digital public service radio channel, which must focus on culture and where it has become apparent that the composition of the board of directors is really, really important, and not least that it now has sufficient competences represented with practical insight into media production. In fact, this draft law aims to combine the competences of the Radio and Television Board so that it has practical media skills represented, and that is really, really important. It is really important that we have a radio and television board that also takes responsibility and that dives down and can look all around, also professionally, so that we do not end up in a situation as unhappy as we have ended up in with this whole case. It makes very good sense that the Danish Media and Danish Journalist Federation now have a place in the board and that we thereby ensure that the board has the necessary insight into media production, but also in what concerns radio, television and new media. It is time for us to have the board that can now decide matters on a real professional basis, and that is why we naturally support the draft law. But I would also like to sign up to the Minister to launch the bill as soon as possible and to ensure that it is implemented here from 1 January. I also think it is important, and I would like to sign up to Mrs Britt Baker for the right of appeal, so that we can have legal certainty. I also look forward to the Minister calling for media talks soon so that we can have a mediadanmark that can see a secure future. There are too many people out there who go insecure and wait for it, so we owe it to them, despite the fact that it has been a busy corona year. So, on that basis, I just want to say that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126114513	Thank you for that and there are no comments. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126114515	I guess there isn't a bigger media subsidy. Let's give our friends some money-gift that the politicians choose to spend on their citizens' tax dollars on, than to share out these media support dollars: barely 370 million. kr. We are sending out directly from the pockets of our citizens to some media that can then back up what politicians want to see happen. It is a scandal that every year people's money is allowed to be taken for it. We write 2020, and people should of course buy the newspapers and watch the TV that they want. The Danes can decide for themselves. The best example of the fact that we have a radio and television board that is completely useless is, of course, that Radio Loud is awarded just under 260 million. kr. or 280 million kr. to make some radio that nobody listens to. It is a huge scandal that people's tax dollars are being spent on this. We can also take another example. There is Pio, i.e. an extension of the social democracy's own press service, which will receive DKr 460,000. A year to send social-democratic propaganda on the air to people out there. What the hell is this? There is no question of tax dollars being spent on it, and therefore New Citizens will come up with a proposal to close this board. There's no need for that. The media support must be phased out. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126114638	Then we have a comment. Sir. Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126114641	It's always a party when mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen has the floor, and I love it, but it's a funny angle to take on this proposal. This has nothing to do with media support. Where's the clutch? This is about getting something professional in. Well, whatever it is, frequencies are the property of the state, and that is a limited resource. So when you have to use those frequencies, you have to make an offer of these. There is a need to have some form of authority, otherwise we will have to sit and discuss in the Chamber who should have what, and I do not think that is the case. Lars Boje Mathisen will think is a good idea. Is it not a good thing that we now have a Radio and Television Board which is now getting some media professionals to deal with such procurement issues?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126114731	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126114731-2	If we talk exactly about this, I think it is deeply mistaken that it is a minister who should sit and appoint who should sit in it. It should be the Folketing. Then it could also be that the Folketing took responsibility for the things that are going on. And as long as the Radio and Television Board is really just an extended arm of the current minister, we cannot support it in New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126114748	Sir. Søren Søndergaard would like to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126114803	That means that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen believes that it should be the political majority that directly decides who should have broadcasting permits and who should be deprived of broadcasting permits. In other words, it is something that the political majority, with the majority of one vote, can sit in here and decide, that is to say, to withdraw people's broadcasting permits and give them to some others. So, is this the proposal with which New Citizens go to the media negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126114836	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126114837	No, you put words in my mouth. I said: the current Radio and Television Board, as it is, we do not think that we are working properly. And that's why we're gonna break it down, and maybe something's gonna have to be built up. It might also be that the Folketing in here had to decide about it. It may be that another board is to be set up. We are not reluctant to look at that. But the current Radio and Television Board, which it is just a minister who can appoint who to sit in, we do not like. Then it is not anchored in the people and in the rule of the people.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126114902	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126114903	I have to admit that I cannot understand how it is more entrenched by the fact that we are to sit here in the Folketing and do so. Well, the idea of that is, after all, that there has to be some sort of arm's length tax, that is, the moment the Minister has appointed them, it is, like, away from the minister, isn't it? And then that committee can make its own decisions on the basis of legislation. That's the point. That is why I cannot understand the idea that we should draw it closer to the political system. I want more less
ParlaMint-DK_20201126114937	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126114938	I often hear this concept of the arm's length principle. And in my book it is mostly a concept that politicians use to disclaim responsibility for the decisions they then make. In this case, it's a minister who isn't elected. I don't think that's a very, very bad idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126114957	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kasper Sand Kjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126115000	Thank you to the rapporteur for just bringing the debate on this bill to life. I think that's great. But I also find it a little bit worrying what is being said from the platform. In other words, I simply have to understand: is the proposal of the New Citizens' Party that it is the Folketing here, by a majority of one vote, to decide which radio channels we are going to have in Denmark? Or who should sit and politically designate those who, for example, have to decide which radio channels we should have, which frequencies should go to whom? For that would, of course, be a direct political management of our media image.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126115029	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126115030	Oh, the rapporteur should have just listened to what I said to him. Søren Søndergaard. That is precisely where I replied that we do not think there is any popular support in that it is a minister who can sit and identify which people should sit on that board and distribute this money. After all, we would like there to be another popular support for this in relation to the current board. We believe that Radio Loud may be the best example of the fact that the current system simply does not work, so we must break that down. How we're gonna build a new one, we're open to it. However, the principle of the transfer pricing principle I have been with both in here for a little while and especially in local politics, where you sit and distribute money to one and the other is a rubber concept in my view.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126115110	Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126115113	But this bill is precisely a suggestion of how we put together the Radio and Television Board in a different way, where we get more competences from the practical media reality and get some practical media professionalism into the name. Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen says it's a bad idea, for example, that it's a bad idea. Danish Journalist Federation and Danish Media now get a representative on the Radio and Television Board and bring it in? And if not, how would that board be appointed, if it is not to be by the Folketing, which one must understand was the answer before?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126115142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126115144	As I said myself, I find it problematic that it is a minister who appoints the people to sit on this board. I see this as a fundamental mistake, because a minister is not elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126115156	Then it's mr. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126115159	Now I was following Mr. Lars Bojesen's speech, and I certainly think I heard that Mr. Lars Bojesen said that it was the Folketing that should have this competence; that it was the Folketing that should be responsible for this competence. So I just want to say that was that a statement by the rapporteur for the New Citizens' Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126115217	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126115218	Bojesen! I've been called a lot of things, but Bojesen's the first time. But it's fine, it's fine. It's early in the day. I'm gonna try to get back together. No, it wasn't a statement. If you're looking at DR now we think DR should be privatised and the board of DR, you'll see that those members are being rounded in a slightly different way from the board of the Radio and Television Board, which is specifically appointed by the Minister. I think we could look at how it could be anchored if there were to be some form of radio and television boards in a way, so it was more anchored in the Folketing and more anchored in the citizens' elections out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126115258	Here you go, sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126115300	Well, I'm sorry the name wasn't said correctly. I apologise to the rapporteur. We've just had a talk about getting to know each other a little more privately, and maybe we can also get to know the names. I'm sorry. However, I note that the rapporteur believes that competence should be transferred to the Folketing when these board posts are to be filled. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126115321	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126115322	Yeah. We would rather see that it is the Folketing that is anchored in the will of the people than that it is a minister who is not elected by the people who has to sit and decide these things absolutely.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126115330	No one else wants to comment. Thank you to the rapporteur. There's no one from the Liberal Alliance, and then it's the Minister of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126115348	Thank you very much to all the rapporteurs for their comments and for the good course of the negotiations and, I believe, to all of us for longer negotiations than we would actually like. It is very much the Corona that makes this bill not tabled earlier, because it is quite fast in the wake of this dab-sending permit and the process around it materialized an even very broad majority. Now I do not dare to say quite after the last exchange that it was all parties in the Folketing, but there was a very fast majority, as I have understood it, that materialised, and it is precisely with this bill that it is agreed that in a committee working with the media there should, of course, be members with specific experience of media production. There is no demand for that today. That is why the draft law here aims to change the composition of the Radio and Television Board, so that in future these practical media-related competences have been represented, as the rapporteurs have also mentioned. Specifically, it will be a requirement that at least three members of the jury should represent practical media professionals within the different media types, i.e.: radio, television and the new media, of which there are increasing numbers. The appointment of members should aim at at least one of the members having practical media experience at management level. Many have asked for the Radio and Television Board to be strengthened in this way. We need a board that is better able to carry out the tasks the mentioned is set in the world to solve, and it is also against this background that there will be this new appointment procedure, where two members with practical media skills will be nominated by the Danish Media and the Danish Journalist Federation respectively. However, I also think that it should be mentioned here today that the Radio and Television Board has a very broad portfolio of tasks and is in contact with many parts in many different ways in relation to the entire Danish media landscape. It is therefore important that we also have constant concern for the viability of these Members when we talk about the appointment of these Members. It has also been part of the debate on the dab-sending licence, and it is also something which is very close to my heart and which I will take very seriously when I look for the first time here on 1 January at a new radio and television board. It would be inappropriate for individual members of the board to be excluded from the specific proceedings in an excessive number of cases. This should be done if there are issues of viability, so it is important to include it in the back of the head even when the designation is made. In addition, I would also like to confirm what we have also talked about in the negotiations and all the progress made towards this bill, namely that as soon as possible, and as soon as the corona allows, I would like to say, I will also start discussions on the introduction of an appeal procedure. How could it be organized? How could we do that? I will also come up with a proposal on how to ensure that there is the secretariat service that we expect this board to have. However, the purpose of the draft law here is also to provide for the possibility of extending the appointment period of the Board. I would like to stress that such a legal basis should only be used if it proves completely impossible to appoint a new board before the end of the term of office of the current Board. This is not something I have any intention of doing, or something I think should be taken easily. With these comments, I look forward to and, of course, am also at the disposal of the committee, and so I thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126115732	Thank you. Sir. Jens Rohde, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126115735	Now I could hardly be in myself with enthusiasm, as I stood on the platform before, over the work of the Minister of Culture and the barn here. It's nice when you feel that way. But you can ask Mrs Zenia Stampe, because she knows that I am good at destroying the good atmosphere, so I'm gonna do that anyway here. That's what I'm best at. What in the world I just can't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126115813	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126115815	Thank you very much. It was simply a summary of why the bill has been so long along the way. At this stage we are, of course, having a better way of dealing with cultural life at all with the great influence the corona has on cultural life. So I certainly expect that we can get started as soon as possible both negotiating secretariat services and appeal options. But, of course, I cannot predict what will happen in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126115845	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126115848	No, but I guess the minister can take a stand on that. After all, Mrs Britt Baker has mentioned this in her speech, and I took it up on that request, which is why I would like to have a statement, at least on the part of the government: is it not a perfectly natural part of the work that there should be some kind of appeal body, so that we do not feel indefensible towards some people who are actually extremely powerful?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126115920	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126115922	Yes, we are in complete agreement on that, and that is what I was trying to say. I would like to repeat in my remarks here: I would like to confirm the agreement which in fact materialised a long time ago, regrettably. We've been waiting a long time for this bill to come forward. This is largely due to coronate breeding in the Ministry, and I would like to regret that. But in that agreement there were three elements: it was about the composition of the name, it was about the service of the secretariat, and it was about the possibility of appeal. This bill has been tabled with only one focus, and it is solely because the appointment is due to take place here until 1 January. As soon as possible, I'll be back with the next two.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126115958	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126120003	I think it sounds really reasonable. So what the minister really does is to stand here and promise the Folketing that there will be no tender, not a single one, in this minister's time, without there being an appeal. That is the promise made by the Minister to the Danish Parliament today, and of course I would like to thank him for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126120022	Thank you. There are no more comments and that means that the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Culture. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126120036	The debate is open. Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126120054	First of all, thank you to the Enhedslisten for having tabled this motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution calls for the government to introduce a ban on the production of caged eggs by the end of 2022 at the latest. The rules governing the keeping of laying hens are laid down in the Order on the protection of laying hens. The notice lays down specific requirements for hens in cages and other requirements for hens kept in other systems. These rules apply to hens laying eggs for human consumption, i.e. caged eggs, scraping eggs, open-air eggs and organic eggs. Since 2012, the production of eggs in cages has had to take place in so-called enriched cages. This means that the cages must contain a sitting stick, a nest box and an area where the hens can scrape. There shall be a minimum of 750 cm2 per day. Hen. The old cages, where the hens had no environmental enrichment, must no longer be used in the European Union. There are also rules for hens in alternative systems, i.e.: all systems without cages, i.e. in relation to scraping eggs, open-air eggs and organic eggs. In these systems there are also requirements for space, nests, sitting sticks and scraping area. Free-range hens and organic hens must also be given the opportunity to enter the open air. The Danish rules implement EU rules, but in some areas they are stricter than EU requirements, for example. there are stricter Danish space requirements in alternative systems. According to the industry's information, there are approx. 3.8 million laying hens in commercial production systems. In addition, it is estimated that approx. 1.2 million hens producing eggs for house door sales and the like. In October 2020, 207 commercial egg producers were registered in the Central Livestock Register and 10 of them produce eggs in cages. I have recently been informed that it is a lower figure that is now being produced by producers of caged eggs. Approx. 10% of the eggs sold on the domestic market in 2019 were caged eggs. In the last approx. Five years the large retail chains have decided that they will no longer sell caged eggs to consumers. In some cases, food products containing caged eggs are also not sold. This has meant that the proportion of caged eggs sold on the domestic market has decreased significantly in recent years. The decline in cage egg production has been offset by the production of eggs in the alternative systems, so the total annual egg production in Denmark has been slightly increasing in recent years. Although the decision by the retail trade to stop selling caged eggs in shops has led to a decrease in caged egg production, there is still the production of caged eggs, particularly for use in the food industry, restaurants, catering and pharmaceutical industries. The requirements for enriched cages take into account the basic behavioural needs of hens to lay eggs in a nest, sit on a stick and scrape. In Denmark there is a rule that there may be no more than ten hens in one cage so that the hens maintain a natural ranking. Cows in Denmark have a low incidence of featherpiling and a relatively low mortality rate. In fact, when the rules on enriched cages were introduced, it was seen as a welfare advance in relation to the old cages. However, there are still major limitations to the free exercise of battery hens. They have only a small area to move on, and they walk on a net bottom with limited possibilities of scraping in loose material. Hen in alternative systems have better opportunity to move. They have access to a fixed bedding floor in which they can scrape, and they also have access to the open area in the case of outdoor hens and organic hens. They have more room, for example. dust bathing and flapping their wings, and they have the opportunity to fly higher up when they have to sit on a stick for the night. These are all things that are fundamental to the natural behaviour of hens. Management has been easier than in alternative crews, but for many years there has been a large part of the Danish hens in alternative systems, so much experience has been gained with the management of crabs, open-air hens and organic hens. Overall, keeping hens in alternative systems overall is better able to meet the basic behavioural needs of hens. That is why it is pointed out from several quarters, not least from animal protection organisations, that keeping hens in cages does not sufficiently take into account the natural behaviour of hens. Our view of animal welfare is constantly evolving. The government has a strong focus on the welfare of the animals we keep in agricultural production in Denmark. When the rules on enriched cages were adopted in 1999, it was considered a step forward in relation to the previous cages, but now I and the government think it is time to take the step fully and introduce a ban on keeping hens producing eggs for human consumption in cages. At the same time, I and the government believe that the necessary consideration should be given to allowing the industry time to adapt to a ban on caged egg production and that we should have a proper dialogue with the industry on this. In this respect, I can mention that in the period up to 2012, when the requirement for all cage egg producers to use the new enriched cages came into force, a large proportion of the cage egg producers invested in new enriched cages. I believe that a transitional period until the end of 2022, which is envisaged in the motion for a resolution, will not be long enough to take account of producers' ability to adapt. There is a need for a thorough examination of the legal and economic conditions of such a possible ban, including in particular: in relation to the length of a transitional period that would be reasonable when taking into account the fact that cage egg producers have to restructure or phase out their production. In this context, the issue of expropriation must also be addressed. I would therefore like to work towards the introduction of a ban on the production of eggs in cages, but at the same time I would like to ensure that the ban is introduced with an appropriate transitional period, which will be as short as possible but which, at the same time, is fair to the current cage egg producers. The government cannot therefore vote in favour of the specific resolution as it stands, but we are working on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126120818	Thank you. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126120821	Thank you. Consumers decide what to do on the plate, and consumers have long since chosen, and every time you look at the statistics and see what it really looks like now, new figures have actually come up on how few caged eggs are left. There have been statistics at 20%. and 15%, and I now believe that it is as low as 10%, and if you look at the number of producers, it is also very low. So we can say in this way that consumers have chosen to go that way and that, in this way, it is an open door that the Minister is now kicking in, and the dialogue that the Minister is setting up, we would like to enter into from Ventre's side. Then we will also help the government not to run into a new mink case, which is why it is very important for the Minister to have that dialogue with the industry, and I would urge that, once the Minister has had it, we should be invited over to a cup of coffee and talk about it here. Because it is very important that proper compensation schemes are then put in place, as the Minister also mentioned a little bit. So the specific question now is: has the minster ensured that money has already been set aside on the forthcoming financial bill for proper compensation, compensation? Or is it just a little further in the future that the Minister thinks so?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126120941	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126120942	First of all, thank you to Mr Left. Erling Bonnesen for a constructive kick. It is quite true what the rapporteur of the Left says that consumers have shown the way in this area to such an extent. Consumers agree with the shopping basket and say no to caged eggs and buy large-scale scraping eggs or organic eggs. It is, of course, violent when you see the developments that have taken place over the last 10 to 20 years. After all, it is consumers who have shown the way, and so is that we are almost free from caged eggs in our supermarkets. It's great, it's good and a cadeau for them. Then we will have the last part, and there we will have a process of conversion, and there we will also include the Left, but also the producers in this work. There we come up with a proposal in the new year, and it will then also be in the years ahead that it will be taken into account in our financial laws and budgets.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126121039	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126121040	Thank you for the first part of the answer. I understand that no money has been set aside in the coming year. That is what it is, and it also gives room and opportunity to discuss things thoroughly and properly, one might say. Then I would also urge the Minister to try to look all the way around the egg production in the various branches so that we can simply get a status when we are invited to the Minister for a cup of coffee, that is to say on what it looks like in the various areas, so that when, if I may say so, we get a joint decision on that, we can say that we can still be proud of the egg production that we must also have in Denmark in the future, and in the long term it will be without caged eggs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126121119	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126121120	It is quite true that we will have a discussion on that. What we have left to look at is precisely the fact that caged eggs are still being used away in relation to the production of other food products, for example. cake, and then in connection with medicine. We also need to be absolutely sure that we have the purity of the eggs to be used in medical situations when we walk away from these caged eggs. So we must be absolutely sure of what we are doing here, and we are taking it at the rate that is realistic, because, fortunately, consumers themselves have shown the way. So it is by far the largest scale of scraping eggs and organic eggs that are being traded.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126121201	Thank you. Then it's mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126121204	Thank you for that and thank you for the Minister's speech. I would also like to take part in the discussions which the Minister is preparing in relation to making a phasing-out in the long run. But I think we have some dilemmas. After all, we all agree that the animals should be as well as possible, and then you can look at it in several different ways, but something like the mortality rate is just very, very low in the caged hens. Now I have just opened up on the Danish Radio's Detector, who has been looking at it. In cage hens, 3.6% die before they reach the slaughterhouse, where they end up, you might say, in scraper hens, 7.9% die. and simply does not come to the slaughterhouse, in free-range hens it is 18.8%, and in organic hens it is 6%. Does the Minister not have the impression that, after all, battery hens are down there at 3.6% and that in the other production systems, therefore, there will be a considerable increase in chickens dying along the way before they have to be replaced with new hens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126121320	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126121321	Thank you very much, Mr Conservatives. Per Larsen for this question. It is clear that it is a figure that makes an impression. I believe that we must bear in mind that the quality of life can be measured not only by how long we live, but also by what conditions we live, and if it is that we have a horrible life in many ways, then it is not certain that it is always a quality in itself to live long. So I think you have to think in terms of the whole. It may be that you can stay alive, but if it is that it is in really awkward conditions, then it is also worth looking at if you cannot get better living conditions. But we have to look into it as a whole, and when it is the case that many egg producers have chosen to switch to other things, it is also because their overall view is that they get happier and healthier hens, which also lay better eggs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126121418	Thank you. Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126121420	Thank you. I have another dilemma. That's actually about 25%. of the eggs that are produced, which are from caged hens, as I can just figure it out, and the 25%. is going to be missing in some way. There may of course be some kind of conversion, but alternatively, if it is for industry, I imagine that there might well be a relatively large import of eggs into Denmark. Is that something the Minister is wondering?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126121451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126121452	That is one of the elements we need to take into account. It may be that, compared to the production of eggs, there is a 25% increase, but compared to the eggs sold on the domestic market, there is talk of 10%, and so there are Danish consumers who have so far shown the way around. However, when we say by the government that we want to have a dialogue with the industry, it is because we believe that it is important that, when you do things like this, you do it in the best possible dialogue and you do not rush through. It is clear, of course, that such consideration will also play a part in the discussions we are going to have with the industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126121533	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126121535	I would like to thank the Minister for his first week as Minister to support better animal welfare for chickens in Denmark by being accommodating to Enhedslisten's proposal to phase out caged eggs and caged hens in Denmark. I think that's really nice. The Minister is quite right to say that consumers have shown direction by opting out of the whole caged eggs in the shops, and then we have the dilemma that we cannot see what eggs are in the Christmas cake and other industrial products, and that we have a political obligation there, as it were, to help support consumers in their opt-outs. It is fair that the Minister is saying that there should not be such a rapid phasing-out as Enhedslisten has proposed by the end of 2022, but I would like to hear the Minister, if the further work will not include what the experience is in a number of EU countries which have already banned caged eggs. That's one of them. Germany, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Austria. There must be some experience from there about how they have handled such a phasing-out. Will the Minister do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126121640	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126121641	Thank you very much to the Enhedslisten and Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen also to make the proposal here. The dialogue we are holding right now in the Danish Parliament is, in fact, an example of the people's regime at its best. Some are very ambitious and very hard-working in relation to animal welfare and have made this proposal. Others have some concerns about the situation in which the egg producers concerned are put. If we risk doing something so quickly that we make some mistakes along the way, then we have a conversation about it which then leads to a joint decision that is best possible and most qualified. So thank you for that. It makes sense when there are countries that have been working on this, that we look into how they've handled this. As I am informed and as I understand it, we have also been working on a little longer time horizons, and that is one of the things we need to look into: how do we do this in the best possible way, where the industry can also be in it and not feel underneath?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126121740	Here you go, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126121743	Thank you. Now the Danish Parliament has recently adopted a new animal welfare law and there are a number of draft regulations which are on the Minister's table and which I do not think have been dealt with yet. I would like to call on the Minister to take a look at the announcement concerning egg production and to consider whether it should not be re-evaluated on the basis of the new positions adopted by the Minister today that we are in favour of phasing out caged eggs. So can we not just agree that these announcements are being held back a little so that we can see whether animal welfare should be given a higher priority in them?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126121818	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126121819	That recording from the Enhedslisten is in any case noted, and then we look into how we can handle this in the best possible way. It may well be that you have to look at it in connection with the work, no doubt about it. Another thing was in Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's first question: this is that you can't know if there are caged eggs in the cake you buy. One of the things I have been a minister in this field this week is whether some of the labelling schemes we have could make it more clear that when you buy a lemon moon or something else wonderful, you can also see what kind of eggs are in, because then I think there will be those who will say: I would actually like to be sure that animal welfare is okay, even when I buy something where there is no immediate visibility about what kind of eggs are in.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126121911	Thank you. Sir. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126121913	Thank you to the Minister for that speech. I think it is very, very positive that the government wants to phase out cage egg production in Denmark. After all, it is a decades-long struggle for the animal welfare movement, which is now moving a very important step in the right direction, so thank you for that. I would like to hear what the Minister is thinking about. There are other countries that have thought in terms of phasing out, but which in my optics are just as slow enough, i.e.. The Czech Republic, which is phasing out from 2027. That seems to me to be dragging it pretty long, compared to the fact that for so many years there should be chickens in cages. In other words, what does the Minister think about the time perspective?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126121957	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126121958	First of all, thank you again for a constructive contribution from the Socialist People's Party and Mr. This is Carl Valentin. It's useful. I'd be very sorry to have to be here for a while now. I have been a minister in this area for almost a week, and there are many things to be aware of in relation to having to stand and mention a time course for something that is so important. There are people with family business who have taken loans to invest in enriched cages, when that is what we adopted, and other things, so to come and pull the carpet away during their business I think would be quite unreasonable. That is why we must be absolutely sure of what we are doing. Another thing I mentioned was this medical thing. As I understand it, there are some eggs that we export to Sweden and that they use in medicine. There are some very special, tough rules for something with cleanliness and so on, and as it is now, it seems that these caged eggs are better than other eggs. There we have to keep our tongues in our mouths so that we do not destroy a business and, perhaps even worse, destroy something that is important for medicine. So it has to be about animal welfare, yes, no doubt about it, but it also has to be a realistic view of how things are related.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126122112	Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126122114	I respect that point of view. I think it is quite fair that we should just discuss the number of years. I hope that you will then have the chicken's perspective, so to speak, that the more years that go by, the longer it is that these hens have to be in tiny cages. I think that is important. But I really would like to follow up on what Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen said, in other words, in relation to these announcements: will the Minister include the support parties in it when they have to be completed, so that we are sure that we have a good dialogue about them so that they are not just suddenly implemented without discussing them?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126122147	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126122148	At any rate, I can say that one of the very first things I have said as a new Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries is that I want the closest possible cooperation with you as rapporteurs. I think that we will only get better decisions by involving widely. We will have qualified our decisions when we involve widely, and we will have every nuance. And, of course, I will do so in all the contexts where it makes sense and where it can also be linked in time. I believe that the cooperative government of the people is the way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126122222	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126122241	First of all, thank you very much to the Minister for this speech and, above all, thank you very much to the Enhedslisten for having tabled this motion for a resolution, but also for having had a great deal of focus for many years on this issue. In fact, I think that deserves respect: that a party in this Parliament keeps a constant focus on phasing out a production that is not found to be good animal welfare. We can also see that consumers have chosen with their shoes, if I may say so. The sale of caged eggs has fallen considerably in Denmark, it has fallen considerably in industry and in consumers, and in the Social Democrats we share the ambition that we have phased out caged eggs. We are therefore, of course, pleased that we will have the opportunity to discuss this particular problem with each other, but also that we will have the opportunity to strike a blow and say that we are actually on the right track in Denmark. As has already been said, consumers are increasingly opting out of caged eggs, as is the retail trade, and there is a longer gap between the caged eggs in supermarket cooling discs. And when it comes to animal welfare, Denmark must be a pioneering country. I am proud that at the beginning of this year, together with all parties in the Folketing, we adopted a new animal welfare law in Denmark, an animal welfare law which, for the first time in Danish history, recognised animals as sensory living beings. That, of course, also obliges us when it comes to action and the decisions that we have to take in this matter, and that is why, as rapporteur for the Socialist Group, I am of course also aware that when we talk about egg production, animal welfare is not a priority when we talk about caged eggs either. However, it is important to bear in mind that the phasing out of production must of course take place in a wise and proper manner. We need to have a good dialogue with each other in here in Things; we need to have a good dialogue with the industry so that we can move forward in a good, reasonable and reasonable way. That is why the Social Democratic Party also welcomes the announcement by the Minister of the area that we are now embarking on a process of involving the Ministry of Justice; it is about involving the producers; it is about involving the stakeholders and, of course, also about involving the parties of the Folketing. In relation to the previous debate, I would also like to acknowledge the two major bourgeois parties, the Left and the Conservative People's Party, so that, as I can already hear, they too would like to be included in the discussion and dialogue on phasing out the cage eggs in Denmark. We look forward to that work very much. And with these comments, we cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, but have sent a clear statement to the Enhedslisten that this is something for which the Social Democrats will actively work. If I could reach sir... Søren Egge Rasmussen now, I would even say that a handshake is being given to the fact that this is going to be phased out and over how many years it will be, the upcoming discussions will have to decide. However, I very much hope that during this parliamentary period we can have a decision that both creates clarity for the profession and for the parties of the Folketing. With these comments, I would very much like to look forward to the debate on the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126122641	Thank you. There are a few comments. Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126122644	Thank you. As I have already indicated, we are happy to take part in some discussions in the Minister's office on this. Then I also noticed in the rapporteur's speech that the rapporteur stressed that it was very important that a good course of action should be organised in this area, including compensation, which matches any losses that might occur, so that we do not run into a new mink case again. What has the rapporteur already thought about the timing of this? When you also talk about compensation, I assume that it will cover full and complete compensation for the individual losses incurred by each remaining cage egg producer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126122728	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126122730	After all, it is not new for the Folketing to phase out professions where it is believed that animal welfare is not paramount. Before my time in the Folketing, Mr. I know that Erling Bonnesen's party sat with the government, for example. the fox farms in Denmark were phased out because it was considered that foxes in cages were not good animal welfare. I fully share that view. But it's clear that when we're going to make this decision, we're going to have to look forward and look back and look right and left. So we must clearly include some of the practices, some of the experience that has been gained in the past, from when Mr. Erling Bonnesen, for example, was a part of the project. phase out fox production in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126122813	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126122815	Thank you. I would just like to stick to the rapporteur's position on compensation, compensation and not to cover the individual losses with which the individual cage percentage has to be left, so that the carpet is not withdrawn in whole or in part from some producers who may have made some investments in some of these enriched cages, as it is now called. Can we not agree now to establish that framework right away?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126122846	The reason why Social Democracy cannot vote in favour of Enhedslisten's proposal is that the ban applies as early as 2022, and we think that would be to pull the curtain away under an industry just right away. So that statement, as Mr. Erling Bonnesen is calling for a clear indication that we are saying that we must now have a process in progress. We need to make sure that there are some people who can move on in their lives. But we also have an industry here, and when we look at the other European countries, we see bans. Denmark must therefore help to be a pioneer country when it comes to good animal welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126122925	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126122929	Thank you. I would just like to make it clear that it is by the end of 2022 that the Enhedslisten has proposed the phasing out of caged hens and caged eggs. Then I would like to thank you for the recognition of the Social Democrat rapporteur. I would say that I recently saw a picture of a hen that had just come out of the cage, and I saw a picture of the same hen after a few months. And just by looking at the plumage and the comb on that chicken, you could see which chicken was best. Now the rapporteur mentioned that we have arrived at a new animal welfare law. It is true that we fought about how much had to change and about coming up with a purpose clause that animals are sensory and living beings. It is a purpose clause, and the purpose clause should, of course, have a spill-over effect when it comes to making announcements for the individual production animals in agriculture. Now the Social Democracy comes and will go further in terms of phasing out caged eggs. I would really like to ask the rapporteur whether this does not mean that we should look into those announcements again and see if the announcements for egg producers should not be tightened up, given that there is a different direction for policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126123036	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126123038	I think I will say the same as the Minister, namely that the view is noted in relation to the Enhedslisten. I have no problem with looking into better animal welfare, constantly discussing it, constantly adjusting it. That, in fact, is also the recognition that I give to Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen here from Parliament's platform in relation to the persistence that Enhedslisten has had in this question. And then I completely agree with Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen in that when we talk animal welfare, it cannot be measured, for example. mortality alone. I got such a picture when it was up here in the previous debate. I also think that if you go in there and do some statistics not because I have looked it up you will see that there are fewer people dying in a rubber cell than in traffic, but I am quite convinced that the people who travel freely and move in traffic are much better off than people who are in a rubber cell.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126123131	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126123135	I think it is fine that we should now look at how quickly we can phase things out, and I am sure that the Social Democrats will be challenged on what compensation should be. But this is an egg production where there are some cages that are probably invested in around 2010 and they are almost written off when we get here 10 years later. It is not, of course, a question of banning chicken farming. It is a question of some cages being emptied and then that farmer can, in fact, continue another production. So I would like to acknowledge that the Social Democratic Party is not going to take part in this huge replacement show at the beginning.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126123210	I can also reassure Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur that I do not know whether it is to reassure the House, but in an earlier debate in this Chamber we had a major discussion about parties that had a certain position, that is to say that they should be excluded from discussions, coffee discussions, etc. And there I would just like to say that if there are parties in this room who want to strike a strong battle to preserve caged eggs in Denmark, I would at least urge the Minister to invite them to a cup of coffee, because I think it is a good custom in a democratic conversation that we start by inviting all parties to a discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126123243	Thank you. Sir. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126123247	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I would like to ask what types of production the rapporteur thinks are most appropriate for chickens. We've got this whole thing about 18.8% dying. 7.9% of free-range chickens die. Of the scraping hens, 6% die. of the organic hens and that 3.6% die. of the cage hens. What production system does the rapporteur envisage to be the most optimal for chickens?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126123323	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126123324	However, I do not actually recognise the premise in the rapporteur's question, that is to say that we make a direct link with mortality when we talk about good animal welfare. Of course we have to work on the least possible animals dying, but it has to be seen in relation to my picture from before. If you have people on the road, there are significantly more who die there than if you, for example, were to die there. has a person in a rubber cell. So I do not accept that argument at all. But I think that, and I hope that the Conservatives will also acknowledge that when we have chickens in a cage and they have as much space as this A4 paper, it is certainly not in my optics a good animal welfare. I like to put organic eggs from free-range chickens into my shopping cart myself. But I acknowledge Enhedslisten's wish, and I think it is a very good start if we in Denmark can adopt that we phase out caged eggs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126123428	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126123430	You can have different opinions. I just think you can see that there, for example. in relation to free-range chickens, 18.8% are dying. It's not like they're dying at the slaughterhouse. They simply die in that production system. Probably lying and suffering until they exhale. I don't like that, I have to say. I would like to ask the rapporteur something. Until such time as the battery hens are phased out, we will be helping to set in motion tests and tests on alternative production systems so that we can have good animal welfare with a low mortality rate, because I think we owe this to the hens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126123512	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126123513	I am very willing that, in this process, we will have good discussions with each other both within the committee and also in relation to the coffee discussions that the Minister is inviting. However, I do not fully understand the rapporteur's premise in the question. Because if the premise means that we are about to impose a ban on free-range chickens, then I would say that the Social Democrats are not ready for that at this stage. We are dealing with the resolution that is on the agenda here today, and so it is about chickens that have a movement in an area the size of this A4 paper, and that is not good animal welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126123552	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. The next one is sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126123608	Thank you. Consumers decide what to do in the shopping basket, and in this area of eggs consumers have long since taken a position, and the announcement has been clear for a very long time. Consumers clearly opt out of the cage eggs and choose some of the other types of eggs, and that is something we must stop, we can say framework conditions and our policy. As we have been informed of what the trend is in relation to it, it is almost just before that every time new statistics have been published, the figures have changed dramatically. According to the latest update I've been given, there should be • if otherwise it holds up six caged egg producers back in Denmark. So we have to say that this is quite a change in a relatively short period of time. Compared to the use as a percentage of caged eggs, it is the same direction. Therefore, as I mentioned just now in my question to the Minister, it is basically what is called kicking in an open door to address this dialogue now. That is also what I marked before and will repeat here, in other words that in the Left we are very much involved in the dialogue to organise a proper process in relation to this and also to provide a proper basis for decision-making in relation to it, and so that we can participate in how this can then be organised in a sensible and proper manner. Not least, there is also the necessary compensation, whatever it may be, which should not be too high or too low. It shall correspond to any losses suffered by the persons concerned, depending on the timetables that may be laid down in relation to this. But these are some of the dialogues that need to be set up in such a way. As far as the specific motion for a resolution from the Enhedslist is concerned, one might say that it almost looks like a copy of something from an earlier proposal, because it is not quite up to date, at least not in relation to statistics, but it may be at a later stage. On this basis, we cannot support the concrete motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten, but we are committed to taking part very much in the dialogue to the extent that we may be invited to do so by the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126123835	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126123837	When you look at a statistic, you'll see if it's the number of farms or whether it's counted up to the cvr level. There may well be a farmer who owns several farms with different CVR numbers. However, we can certainly clarify in committee how many caged hens and caged eggs this is about. But that's about. Ten per cent as it's come down on. The rapporteur mentions that consumers can choose as well. Yes, consumers have done this by opting out of the cage eggs and by giving high priority to buying the organic eggs in Denmark. It's really extreme, as fast as it's been. But there's a leftover. There are those eggs that are in our cakes, which are in the mayonnaise, etc., and where, even if you read it with the small, you cannot read whether it is caged eggs that are in those products. Consumers do not have that option. Yeah, they kind of have. They can buy organic products, because then you know that organic eggs are in the processed food. Does the rapporteur not see that we have a problem with the fact that the consumer does not actually know what is in these conventional cakes in which there may be caged eggs?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126123941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126123942	Hopefully, no one can be opposed to good and comprehensive consumer information. So here again there is a call for the industry to provide the best possible information on this. It could be an excellent point to have an update on when, hopefully, we come to the Minister for a discussion on this at some point. Let me just mention that I forgot to greet the Liberal Alliance and say that they are also on the same line in the matter as I have indicated here on the Left side.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124011	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124016	It's about these replacements. Now we have enough to do with a profession that has some cages, which they have then got a better version of back in 2010. And it is the case that stable furniture is written off over a shorter period of time. So we are here almost 10 years later with something where it is probably used barn furniture that is out there, and it is in some halls that can be used for another poultry production. Does the rapporteur not agree that it must be the relatively limited compensation that we will achieve if we do not do this as quickly as we do with the minks?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124052	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124053	The compensation must not be too high or too low. It must, of course, at the given time cover the loss which the person concerned may suffer either too high or too low. When it may then be, it must also depend on the timetable in which we enter. I think it is important to indicate from the outset that if you set a concrete end date and then there are some who are left with something that is not written off or whatever it may be, then you have to be willing to go in and replace it. So it should be neither too much nor too little, but spot on to cover any losses that may be left behind.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124129	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124130	Thank you very much, Mr President, to the rapporteur of the Left. Erling Bonnesen. I know, sir. Erling Bonnesen helped to wind up or, at least, phase out we have one left in Denmark • the fox farms in Denmark, among others. with the argument that there was no proper animal welfare. And there I would like to hear a clear answer from the Left, because I think it is a little weird what the position of the Left is like with regard to the hens in cages today: is it good animal welfare and is the Left in agreement when I say that I see it as an outdated form of production in relation to Danish agriculture, or is the Left only playing on the field now because they can see that there is a political majority in the Danish Parliament in favour of winding up the production of caged eggs? Does the Left believe that the production of caged eggs is good animal welfare, or does the Left believe that the production of caged eggs is poor animal welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124227	But in a case like this, too, it is a matter of having a pragmatic attitude towards it. Of course, when consumers point the way, that is what we must also take stock of in the future organisation of things. The decisions that have been taken historically in this area are, for example, as follows: have been marked back from 2012, I think it was where we banned what we can call the real old cages, and got what was called enriched cages.Of course we are behind it. Now we come to a new situation, and that is also why we say that we should sort of steer the future by looking out of the front window; we should not sit and look so much in the rear-view mirror now. So we are ready for the discussions that I have already highlighted in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124311	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124312	I agree with the rapporteur that we have known about this new situation since 2012. It is eight years, and that is why I think that in the eight years that the rapporteur from the Left has had enough time to get an overview and to be able to form a position on whether it is good animal welfare or whether it is bad animal welfare. It is possible that the rapporteur cannot answer on behalf of the Left, but it may be that the rapporteur can give his personal opinion: is having hens in cages producing caged eggs producing good animal welfare or is it poor animal welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124344	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124345	As I have already indicated, and I think the questioner is fully aware of this, things are evolving over time. I think it was good that in 2012 the decisions that were made at that time were taken, and that is how you can stand and play across the fence, if you may say so, with many different things. But the future must now be controlled by looking out of the front window and not by looking only in the rearview mirror. We stand by the decisions that have been taken in the past, and I am glad that we have also helped to improve animal welfare several times, and we will also do so in the future. So we look forward to some good discussions on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124421	Sir. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124424	Thank you. I have to dig a little more into this, because the rapporteur says that you have to take stock of what consumers like do and what developments are. And I kind of agree with that. But doesn't the Left also have an opinion that you have chickens in cages? In other words, if consumers now thought that bullfighting was just fine, would the Left also think that we should have it or that dog meat production would be quite fine; then it is okay because we are listening to consumers? I mean, doesn't the Left have an independent attitude to this kind of animal production where the chickens are in tiny cages? Are you just following the consumers in thick and thin, or what about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124503	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124504	I think it is very important to listen to what consumers are saying and, of course, we also have our own position, and I have also highlighted that in previous answers, so I can refer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124512	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124513	But what is the Left's own position? Are you gonna ban cage eggs or don't you want them?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124521	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124522	If the rapporteur had heard something like that, I think the rapporteur has indicated what I have indicated along the way, we on the Left have joined the field and are very happy to participate in phasing out the cage egg production in Denmark, because that is the point we have reached in development now. And more clearly, I don't think that can be said. But it has to be done, as I have also indicated, in a proper and sensible way, and I hear several people are giving a signal on that too. And then you could list it all again, but I have done so several times in the previous answers, so I have signed up for both myself and the party to the fact that we are taking part in some sensible discussions in order to have this continued in a proper and sensible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124602	Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124604	I just don't think the SF gets answers. The question has now been asked twice: does the Left have any concern at all about the conditions of battery hens, or do they only agree to the dismantling of battery hens, because that is what the development is calling for?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124620	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124621	Well, now I'm the Leftman, so I'm expressing myself the way I do. However, I do not think it can be said much more clearly than what I have said, so that we will be taking part in the forthcoming discussions to the extent that we are invited and that is what the Minister is telling us that we will be doing in order to phase out the production of cage eggs in Denmark in a proper way and taking into account timetables and other issues in this area. Pretty much more clearly I don't think that can be said.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124645	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124647	Well, that can be said much, much more clearly, because the rapporteur does not actually answer the question. The question is very simple: does the Left have a concern about the lives of battery hens and the way they thrive in those cages?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124702	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124703	Yes, of course we do, and that is also why we have reported positively in relation to looking at how it can be arranged in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124709	Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124713	Does the Left support the phasing out of caged eggs because caged egg production is poor animal welfare or because it would like to help producers to another form of production before the market disappears on its own?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124727	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124729	This will be an overall assessment, because the issues that have just been raised by the honourable Member must be taken into account. Animal welfare must be taken into account. Account must be taken of any producers remaining. It's not that many, but they can be of different sizes, I don't know. So it has to be done, as I can hear several people say, in a proper and sensible way, and we are looking forward to some good discussions on that. So, yes, animal welfare is of course also a factor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124751	Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124753	So I can conclude that the Left believes that caged egg production is poor animal welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124801	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124802	In any case, we can see without saying too much now that all the rapporteurs have been on board, but at least one is guessing a little about the fact that a very large, broad majority is now saying that it has come to an end with caged egg production in Denmark, and then it is realistic to say that it has to be done in a proper and sensible way. I have also answered in the affirmative that, in the overall considerations that I and we are doing in the Left, animal welfare also plays a major role, of course. Of course it does.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124832	Thank you. Then there are no more questions to the rapporteur. And that's why it's Mrs. Lise Bech, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126124839	Thank you. The debate on this motion for a resolution has suddenly taken a different turn because an hour ago a press release came from the Minister about this. But thank you to Enhedslisten, for it was Enhedslisten who put this proposal on and certainly gave birth to what has then come. I think it is a good proposal, but it may now sound a bit like what the previous rapporteur said, namely that it is a bit like kicking in an open door. But it's good; it's good. The comments also state that all the large retail chains in Denmark have announced that they are phasing out caged eggs • many have done so, and several do so soon. So it is not just the consumers who have chosen it out; it is also all the major retail chains, and it is actually all of them, so it is super good. And it can be said that this has gone fast: By 2015, the percentage of caged eggs was 54 per cent. of all produced eggs, by the second quarter of 2019 the proportion had fallen to 20%, and now we are down to under 10%, so that's fine. It is mainly the food service sector that is responsible for that share, but here too we are in the process of phasing out caged eggs. Large retail chains like REMA 1000, Føtex, Netto and Bilka have dropped the so-called hidden cage eggs, and that's really positive. Then I am actually very pleased with the Minister's statement that we need to talk to the producers, we need to talk to those who have something to do with it. And actually, we hear today, there are only six caged egg producers left in the country. I had also received a figure of ten; I do not remember whether it was in the Enhedslisten's proposal that I had seen it. These people have invested in enriched cages in 2012 when it became a requirement throughout the European Union. So such an investment has a long lifespan, so it's kind of this date, which I might have some reservations about, in terms of whether they should have a replacement for it at the end of 2022. That's what you have to find out. And several rapporteurs have said that the cage hens we have today go into enriched cages and they have the lowest mortality rate of 3.6%. versus 18.8%. for free-range hens. And when we talk about animal welfare, there is no doubt that they would be better off walking freely. So what I might be able to suggest, compared to many of the hens that we have in other cages, is that we change how much space they should have, one might say. For Peter Sandøe, professor of bioethics at the Department of Animal Welfare and Disease Control at the University of Copenhagen, says: When you measure some of the basics that are needed for a hen to be well, it is very surprising that cage hens are actually doing the best. It's a little deaf, you might say. They have higher health because hens in the other productions go into such large flocks that it can cause stress and cannibalism, broken bones and featherpiling. So everything has a price... the welfare charge has a price... but we are also prepared to help pay for it. But I think that just the fact that there is a debate on this in the Danish Parliament today also helps to further lower it. Many supermarket chains and restaurants etc. They will also make it a requirement that they do not want it anymore. So I also think that it is being phased out by itself more or less. But I think it is a very good proposal, and the Danish People's Party thinks it is a very good proposal. And whether it is distributed in such a way that we all meet for coffee at the Minister's office and see how we can do this or whether we continue a committee procedure is not really that important. What is important is that we phase out this product for the sake of animal welfare. So thank you to Enhedslisten for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126125315	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126125319	Well, thank you for receiving me. I don't think it's quite kicking in an open door because the gate to the barn with caged hens is still closed. It will only be opened when chickens have to be replaced. And that's something that still makes up maybe 10%. of the Danish-produced eggs, so we are sort of a place where we have not arrived at the whole phase-out. I think it is a good thing that the rapporteur is focusing on this with the hidden caged eggs, which there are in a large number of those cheap Christmas cakes that it will soon be smart to buy and eat up to Christmas. There I find it interesting when some chains start to say: we don't want that. And they have a huge power, because they buy cakes and other industrial products in a very large style up to Christmas. So I think it is good that the rapporteur brings it around the hidden caged eggs. The rapporteur will then not fully support it with the expiry date there in 2022. Can the rapporteur not see that we can do this with the phasing out of battery hens fairly quickly?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126125422	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126125424	Yeah, I actually thought I was pretty supportive of that. For what I would like is for us, together with these producers and with the industry, to say: how long do they need, and what will the compensation possibly be? So we actually back that up. But whether this should be the date that Enhedslisten has set on, I think we should look at in the further reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126125450	Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126125452	We don't have any sacred dates. I think it is a good thing that the rapporteur raises this issue with what the good chicken team is. After all, we are a place where these large flocks, whether organic or free-range, are a dilemma, and that is something that needs to be worked on. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether there is no reason for us to continue working on better regulations for the chicken herd in different agricultural types in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126125520	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126125521	Yeah, I think we should. Well, you can see from the statements made here by Peter Sandøe who knows something about animal welfare that the big flocks are a problem, so maybe we should go in and look at this with the area. So, yes, I'm open.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126125543	Then it's mr. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126125547	Well, I would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur, because I actually think that this was a very good and progressive speech made by the rapporteur, and when you ask questions you should not just be polemical. I think it is also very appropriate to commend the Danish People's Party for having shed some light on this matter, both in order to have a proper dialogue with the industry and to focus on animal welfare; I think there may be some lack of recognition from the rapporteur. I do not agree that it is simply opening an open door, because at least there are still 10% on the Danish domestic market. eggs coming from caged hens. Those are relatively many, and we must also recognise that there are a great many hens who are not feeling well at the moment. So I would like to ask the Danish People's Party if there is no clear recognition that this proposal comes at just the right time, so that Denmark can remain a pioneer country when we talk about good animal welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126125649	I think I have expressed this in my speech. This is exactly the right time to go, and the minister is taking it right away... and the Enhedslisten is making this proposal. I think that is quite obvious. But I would also like to say that 10%. out of 100 is not so much, but peace be with it!
ParlaMint-DK_20201126125711	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126125713	Well then, I just want to say a thousand thanks to the Danish People's Party and that I personally look forward to a very good and constructive dialogue, because when it comes to phasing out a production, it is also best that we can land a proposal like this in broad agreement here in Things.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126125730	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126125732	Clearly, I think that was more of a comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126125736	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126125739	Thank you. I would like on an equal footing with others to start by thanking Enhedslisten for raising the matter here in the Folketing. In fact, I think it has become an historic day today. It was already historic when I sensed that the government would support a ban sometime in the future, but I also think it will be even more historic if we feel the very broad support for the proposal that we are experiencing in the Parliamentary Assembly today. Actually, I didn't expect that, and I'd really like to sign for that too. In fact, it is hard to understand that we have not long since phased out eggs from caged hens. The Danes say no to cage eggs when you ask them. Consumers opt out when they are at the cooling counter, and supermarket chains have also announced that they no longer want to sell them either. It is an unequivocal opt-out of this form of production in the interests of animal welfare. In fact, I believe that a great many Danes will fall to their breasts, that we will still allow this form of production and even in such a slightly hidden way as to deprive them of the option of opting out. Because when you take a boiled egg in the canteen or buy a cake from the baker, you can't see if there are caged eggs in the product, and that is, I'm sorry to say it very directly, both heavy and cowardly towards the Danes, who have long since opted out of this production form and sent a very clear signal. That is why I would like to thank the government and our new Minister for Food for the very clear support for phasing out caged eggs and the equally clear indication of now going to the workshop and preparing the concrete ban. This requires clarification of legal, economic conditions and a dialogue with the industry on a proper transition period. We respect that. We support this, and we welcome the very constructive tones of the government in relation to animal welfare, and that is why I also took note of the speech by the Socialist rapporteur. I note that the rapporteur referred to the new animal welfare law and the wording that animals are living and sensory beings, and stressed that this recognition also calls for a high level of welfare in our livestock production, among other things. relative to egg production. That's really promising. Thank you. That is why we are also looking forward to the work on the regulations which, so to speak, implement the animal welfare law. We really hope that we will get a boost across the board in terms of animal welfare and, above all, animal welfare in our livestock production. I must therefore stress that today we cannot support the resolution itself because the phasing-in is too short, but we support a ban and we support the work of the government to prepare it and get it adopted here in the Folketing. The last thing I would like to comment on is the comparison that has been drawn from several lots up here in relation to mortality and open-air eggs. I think that's really exciting. This does not mean that animal welfare for caged hens is better, that they do not die as much, but the bourgeois parties, who have mentioned it, point to an important problem, namely that mortality is too high among conventional outdoor hens. That is why I hope that we can start work to create better conditions, because it is true that mortality is too high, and we hear from experts that it is quite easy to do something about it. I mean, you can do one of those things. To increase some of the requirements that exist and to take a closer look at the requirements that apply to organic production, but you can also do things in relation to the plants themselves, which in this way can in fact very easily lead to a lower mortality rate, since it is primarily infectious diseases from which these free-range hens die. There are therefore some rather low-hanging fruits on which we could perhaps have a good dialogue, so that we can also increase animal welfare for the free-range hens. I hope that everyone is willing to follow up on this, not just those who have used it to compare it with caged hens and perhaps produce caged hens in a better light, but it is above all in order to increase animal welfare for free-range hens, where mortality is too high. So I very much hope that we will be able to take you at the floor of the rapporteurs who have been up here, the parties that have highlighted the high mortality rate, and I hope that you will also help to focus on the issue and do something concrete so that we can reduce mortality and increase animal welfare for the free-range hens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126130224	There are brief comments. First, it's from sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126130228	Thank you. If, on a day such as this, when, we can say, relatively few remaining caged egg producers can see that it is at least within some time horizon that has not yet been defined, ending with caged egg production in Denmark, does the radical rapporteur also agree that it is important that a signal be sent at the same time? Now there must be some plans and some analyses, and there will be a timetable, but in view of the fact that at some point an end date has to be set, does the rapporteur agree that it is important for those who are left with some kind of loss or loss, or whatever it may be to know that this is what needs to be replaced, neither too much nor too little, so that from the start we are now in this work process, as if we are being given the comfort that we need not be nervous about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126130317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126130318	I am told between the lines that a parallel is drawn to the issue which we are all still deeply concerned about in relation to mink. But I am of the opinion that, as far as mink is concerned, a whole industry is being phased out, where it may well be that there are opportunities for some of those who have been caged egg producers to continue to be producers, that is to say egg producers, but in a different form of production. I shall not be able to rule that out, which is why it may not be quite the same as phasing out mink breeding in Denmark. I assume that this may be more appropriate, but we have to look at it in parallel with other areas where animal welfare requirements have been raised and then have had some transitional periods. I am not going to deny that there can be compensation, but I cannot promise it in advance. I believe that what we have to do is also to go back and look at what it was like when we introduced battery hens, where there was a demand for these enriched cages: what kind of transitional period and what kind of compensation did we provide then? Then maybe we can be inspired by it. We look forward to that work, but I would still warn against drawing too clear parallels to the closure of the mink industry, as this is probably a slightly different matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126130431	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126130432	Well, thanks for that so far, so good. And as we have also marked several times, there will be some who are left with a big or small loss at the end, that is, when you have made these decisions and you can put the bell after that now it ends with cage egg production in Denmark within some shorter time horizon, not months, but something that probably looks like a few years, if you are to try to interpret a little in what has been said today. Then there will be some who are left with a production device. It may have a different use, the hall itself may be used for something else, but as far as the inventory is concerned, you have a loss. So that is what I am aiming for: that we can get a signal that the loss that may be is what we have to deal with and that this is what needs to be replaced, neither too much nor too little.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126130519	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126130520	That is what we need to look at, and I think that we can go back to history and find parallel situations and look at what we did there and whether we can find a model that lies in it. I do not think so, but I am, of course, open to it; I will follow the process and go into it with an open mind, but I think this is a slightly different situation from that which we see in relation to mink, where, in my view, it is the position of the Left that we should be compensated for the abandonment of an entire profession, that is. is compensated for loss of earnings over a rather long time horizon. I do not think that will be quite necessary here, as we can probably continue to produce eggs, but then we will have to change our form of production.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126130601	Then it's mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126130603	Thank you. And thank the rapporteur for a good speech. In fact, I see the rapporteur as the first speaker here, who is so sincerely concerned about animal welfare, because in this way you recognise that mortality is a problem when dealing with animals. This is clearly a problem, and I think we should take that in mind, and we should be sure in future work to develop some production systems so that the animals die only on the day the owner decides that the animals should die. So thank you for a good speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126130644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126130645	Well, thank you. And if there are even some low-hanging fruits out there that enable us to improve animal welfare for the free-range hens in a quite easy and cost-effective way, then I think it should be something we could find together on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126130703	There are no more brief comments, so we would like to thank Mrs Zenia Stampe. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126130714	Thank you. After all, this is an animal welfare debate with which I believe everyone has come to know at some point. This is perhaps the most discussed animal welfare issue in Denmark, and it has been for very, very many years. That is why I think it is actually a pretty big day when the Social Democrats and even a whole new minister come here and say that they want to ban the production of caged eggs, and that there is also a fairly broad majority in the Folketing who will at least enter into discussions on this and back up to a certain extent. I think this is really, really great for chickens in Denmark, and I think that the honour is due to the animal welfare movement, which has fought very hard for this for a lot of years, so thank you, and of course also thanks to the Enhedslisten for submitting the proposal. I think it is really sad when you keep chickens in small cages with net floors and where each hen has the space corresponding to an A4 sheet plus a postcard. I do not think that is dignified in any way. And it goes without saying that when you live in such a tiny cage, you have no opportunity to unfold your natural behavior. Research also shows that hens need room to move, and they need space to stretch their wings, and they must of course have that, and we must adapt the legislation accordingly. There are also some who have mentioned here today that citizens are opting out of caged eggs. I think it's nice, there's really good reason for that. But there are also the hidden caged eggs, i.e. the caged eggs that are in cakes, for example, and that you cannot just see whether you choose from or to. I think it is important for consumers to be able to know what they are buying, and that is why some information is also needed on this front. So I think it also shows that we cannot just let the market act; that is, we cannot leave the responsibility for animal welfare to the individual in relation to making the right choices. We also need to make structural changes that ensure a minimum level of animal welfare that we offer to animals. That is why it is very important to have legislation put in place and not just to follow the citizens. That is why I think this is a good proposal. We can also see that other countries are already in full swing and are either phasing out in just a few or over a number of years' time. Among other things: Germany is in the process and they account for more than half of the market share in the EU, so this is quite a big development. Now they only had 6%. Cage production in Germany, the last I looked at, and in 2025 a ban will then enter into force. I hope we will be a little faster than that. I really think that what Enhedslisten is proposing is fine, and we can support that. I believe that we need to fundamentally change our relationship with animals. It is important that we remember that animals are sensitive and sensory beings and that we also take stock of the new animal welfare law that we have implemented. We must remember that every animal in our production is an individual. Although there are millions of them, each animal has its own experiences, and it is a terrible existence to be in such a small cage. Animals are entitled to our respect and I believe that banning caged egg production is a minimum. Finally, I should also like to make one comment on double standards. I think we are double moral in our relationship with animals in some ways. I also think you can be a bit double moral when you speak against caged egg production, as the Danish People's Party does, for example, but then you are quite comfortable with mink production, which also takes place in small cages, where the animals do not feel comfortable either. I think that's double standards. But in reality I also feel that double standards are better than no morality, and that is not said as a joke, I actually mean it seriously. Well, I'd rather have politicians who are too much animal welfare and then are a bit double moral and against something other than politicians who just consistently don't care about animals. That is why I am in favour of there being parties supporting better animal welfare here, even though they may not do so in other contexts. I think there is good reason why we generally think a little more about our double standards in our relationship with animals. There is also a very, very big difference between how we will treat our dogs and how we then allow ourselves to treat pigs. I think that is an important ethical discussion that we should think about a little. SF supports this proposal, which we think is very good. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126131140	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126131142	Thank you for those comments, and also thank you to the rapporteur for giving us some thought. In this way, I agree with the rapporteur that we must ensure that there is a continuous discussion of animal welfare, and it is clear that there are also some things that are developing in relation to both consumers and those who own animals, but indeed in this area too. When I choose to speak to the rapporteur, it is because the rapporteur very bombasticly says that the SF is ready to support the Enhedslisten's proposal, for which a large number of parties in this House have said they have a great deal of sympathy. The government has indicated that a process is now under way to phase out these caged eggs. However, as SF supports this proposal, we also support a phasing-out date called the end of 2022, that is to say in a few minutes. I just wonder if the rapporteur is not impressed when so many parties say that we are now ready to reach a broad agreement in good faith and so on. So why does the SF continue to support an exit called 2022, when there is now a broad consensus that you want to find an overall solution to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126131249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126131249-2	The reason we support this is because we think that the end of 2022 is a fair time. I think that the optimal process we could have now was that the many parties who have spoken in favour of the proposal today voted through the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution, and then we did exactly what has also been debated, namely sitting together and discussing how to find the best possible procedure for it, also in dialogue with the industry, but where we have, like, put a barre saying that at the end of 2022 it should be over; then there should be no more caged egg production. I think that this would be a good process and we would like to support it, and that is why we are voting in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126131326	Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126131326-2	I also recognise that the rapporteur has that view and we can, of course, take a long process discussion, but that is not what I want. I just think it seems most sensible, most appropriate to those who are at the production stage, to stakeholders, to parties, to start by having a good dialogue and then to get input from those with whom you have the dialogue and then to make a decision. This is also how I usually hear SF want to work: engaging rather than just hard to make the decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126131400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126131401	We would like to include, and we can also include, but with the premise that cage egg production ends at the end of 2022. Then we can easily involve ourselves. We can have dialogue. We can deal with this in a very fine democratic way, but with a deadline. The reason we are voting in favour of this is because we fear that it will be delayed. So, we have seen countries like Belgium that have decided to phase out in 2028, or the Czech Republic that are phasing out in 2027. We think it's too long. We do not think that animals should be in small cages for that long, and that is why we would like them to move relatively quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126131436	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin. There are no more brief comments. And now it's sir. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126131456	Thank you for that, President. The better you treat your animals, the better your conscience is, of course, but you also have the best production results, because it is closely linked. Now I am a little burdened by the fact that I have worked with livestock for many years now and have therefore also seen how the difference is, whether the animals have the most optimal conditions on all parameters, or whether there are some places where it lags. Now we have this proposal on battery hens, and then we also have a motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten on chickens. Somewhere it is such a hidden attack on food producers, and my perception and knowledge of animal husbandry in Denmark is that the animals are well. In fact, it also says that according to the Animal Protection Act, animals must be treated properly and protected in the best possible way against pain, suffering, anxiety, lasting but significant disadvantages. In addition, the keeper of animals must ensure that they are treated carefully, including housing, feeding, watering and cared for, taking into account their physiological, behavioural and health needs. And the rooms and areas where the animals are kept must be designed so that the needs of the animals are met, including that they have the necessary freedom of movement and are protected from weather and wind. The Animal Protection Act also lays down rules concerning, inter alia: killing, operating operations, display and sale, etc. It actually covers very well, and all the livestock producers I know of are doing the utmost to make their animals feel as good as possible. Then there may be different approaches to it. Some people would like to have chickens in cages and think that this is a good way, and it has to be said that it is also very much supported by the research that is there, and that is where I think we have a dilemma in this discussion. As the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said, we have accessibility in relation to looking at the hens we are dealing with. For example, Peter Sandøe, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, said in relation to battery hens that they had fewer broken bones, fewer wounds due to nicks from other hens and a lower stress level. As a result, far fewer caged hens died during the production period. And these are the things you see when you have chickens in large flocks, i.e. they pick each other, they get hurt and they have stress, and I think that is some of what we have to take into account. That is also why they die of themselves, so to speak, in other words, an unnatural death dies because they simply die before they were meant to die. I think that is a huge problem. Then I feel the same way when proposals are put forward in this Chamber that I actually lack some things. For example: It is the case in a municipal council that there are typically some consequences of the things you bring up, i.e. about the economy and climate and the environment and something like that. However, we have to see in relation to phasing out the battery hens, for which I can hear that there is a majority, and I think we should work towards that, too, that we should then just have some better alternatives. In any case, we know that the climate impression is higher in all the other forms of production. For example, more protein must be imported because it is less effective. The evaporation of ammonia is also higher in all other forms of production, and this could continue. There are a lot of negative consequences in switching to some other forms of production, and the worst one is the one with the mortality rate.I really think you have to take note, because it is a huge problem that so many people die in the other production systems. We are not going to support the proposal, but we are looking forward to negotiating with the Minister for Food about a phasing-out over a long period of time when we can also be familiar with the producers. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126131951	There are brief comments. First, it's from sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126131954	Thank you. Now the rapporteur referred to some passages in the Animal Protection Act which are currently in force. But it is the case that the Folketing has adopted a new animal welfare law, which will apply from 1 January, and it was even a unanimous Parliament that adopted it. I do not know whether the rapporteur was present on the day it was adopted. It is, of course, in the legislation in which the purpose clause states that animals are living and sensory beings, and, in a sense, you enter into a different level of animal welfare if you take the purpose clause of the animal welfare law seriously in relation to what has happened in the past. The paradigm shift is still to be translated into announcements, but I see it as a change that we now have a Minister for Food and Agriculture, who today, like meeting the need to phase out caged eggs, and I regard it as something that is based on the animal welfare law. Is the rapporteur aware that we have the new law which will enter into force on 1 January?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126132101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126132105	Yes, the rapporteur is aware of this, and I also share the view that animals are sensory beings. This is not a matter for discussion, because that is the way it is. Well, animals are experiencing the things they are now experiencing, and that's how it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126132129	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126132129-2	Since a hen is a living and sensory being and you have to set up some conditions for the production animal, can the rapporteur not see that it is a little difficult for the hen to live it out in a cage where there are ten hens and where each hen has an area the size of the A4 sheet that the rapporteur has in his hand, plus a postcard? Well, we're into something where there isn't really room to flap with the wings, which otherwise is part of this living being's natural behavior.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126132202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126132203	Yeah, but it's just that you can't just take out single elements. In other words, a dead hen cannot flap its wings, and there is therefore a much greater risk if one chooses one of the other production systems. Then there is a much greater risk that they will breathe out before they get into the soup pot, if that is the case. And I think that is a huge problem, which one has to take into account in the equation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126132233	Then it's mr. Anders Kronborg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126132235	Thank you very much for the statement made by the rapporteur. I have a great deal of doubt when I listen to the rapporteur whether he recognizes that there is a challenge with the Danish caged hens. There are a number of figures in relation to the welfare of animals, and I almost said that yes, it is not surprising to me that hens do not break a leg if they are in cages, because they have virtually no room to move on. So the natural behavior pattern can hardly be lived out by these hens, and I agree with the previous questioner, Mr President. Søren Egge Rasmussen, in that this is also about the fact that there is a pattern of behavior that we must bring forward by animals, as sensory, living beings, and that they must flap with their wings. So I just want to make sure that I understand correctly that the Conservative Party in Denmark does not recognise that there is an animal welfare challenge in the production of cage eggs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126132334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126132339	We recognise that there is a challenge with animal welfare when animals do not die at the time when they have been decided to die. Then there are typically some reasons for that. It may be disease, and it may be that they may have cannibalism trends • it has chickens for example • and therefore there are major problems with animal welfare when you keep them in too large flocks. This is also why you can measure a higher level of stress in the hens that go into larger flocks, and I think you have to take that into the equation. In other words, if the hens go in a natural-sized herd, where they can see them, they are with them in a cage there are up to 9-10 pieces • they don't get stress, but if they go thousands together, they seem to get stress, and I think that's what you have to take into the equation when you say that one form of production is better than the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126132432	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126132433	However, the Conservative rapporteur only takes into account the equation in that he has a reservation that cage egg production should be phased out in Denmark, where I acknowledge that there is still a challenge in relation to some animals in Danish agriculture. I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether he will take it all into the equation, because I recognise that there is too much mortality among animals in some places. So can the rapporteur reveal how the Conservative People's Party intends to work systematically on this particular issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126132510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126132511	Well, that's exactly why I've explained that I think we should get to work to see how we can optimize animal welfare, so that there may be room for flapping with our wings, but also the opportunity to live a life until it is decided that they should not live anymore. For among the scraping hens there are 7.9% that breathe into the very short life that the hens typically have. Well, a hen can be 10 years old.I remember that when I was a child; we had chickens that went a long time.But they don't get that in the production systems, and you should probably be able to keep them alive for the first year if it was the case that animal welfare was in order.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126132557	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126132559	Now the Conservative rapporteur has mentioned on several occasions that the low mortality rate for battery hens is a very, very important factor for the Conservative People's Party's assessment of this issue, among other things. they don't get as sick as other chickens. At the same time, the rapporteur has graphically described the problems of flocks of free-range hens, in other words how they feel and how they lie and suffer a long-term death. Does the Conservative People's Party really think that we should have more chickens back in the cages?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126132634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126132635	Well, I think the animals should be as well as they can be. We must simply say there, in relation to the mortality of sensory beings, that in all other contexts you will shout guard in arms if it is the case that mortality is too high, and I do not see why not also apply to chickens. I don't like the chickens dying an unnatural death. I think they should have their heads cut off, to put it plainly, and into the soup pot at some point. But the fact that they are dying along the way, I simply do not like it, and it shows that there are some things that are not right, and it is therefore obvious that the battery hens are the ones with the greatest chance of getting to the supper. They do not just breathe into the process to the same extent as the free-range and scraping hens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126132735	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126132736	The question was clear: does the Conservative People's Party believe that we should have more chickens left in the cages?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126132745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126132746	The Conservative People's Party does not think so, no. After all, we have agreed with the Minister's proposal to set up a phasing-out period with regard to battery hens on proper conditions, with which everyone can benefit. However, I also think that we need to ensure animal welfare in particular to come up with some other solutions than just releasing them as free-range chickens where up to 18% die. I simply do not think we can be familiar with this, and I do not think that the rapporteur of the alternative can think that is a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126132819	Then it's mr. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126132821	Thank you. I think it's a little odd that there's this big focus on mortality. But that is actually very classic, because that is also what the industry has been saying for so many years: look, we have a low mortality rate when you put the chickens into cages. But the reason why it is a little strange to focus so much on it is that it is obvious that when you put the animals into small cages, there are a lot of dangers that they are not exposed to. When chickens are not free-range, they cannot just be caught by a fox, or they cannot be affected by some disease because they do not go many together. There are a whole lot of factors involved. But is not the natural conclusion instead of focusing so much on mortality, so to speak, that there are some other welfare problems in the other productions, and let us then try to reduce the welfare problems and stop caged egg production, which is really hard for the animals, and then focus on giving the other animals in the other forms of production better conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126132915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126132915-2	Yes, we are in complete agreement on that. In other words, if we can reduce the mortality rate in the other forms of production, then it starts to strike a balance. I just think it's violent to make such a big attack on the battery hens, considering that it's so awful to have some space. After all, when they have fewer fractures, less cannibalism, less stress, as the researchers point out, I think it is a little bad model to say that they just have to get out of those cages as quickly as possible, knowing that this means that the hens in the other systems have more physical fractures, more cannibalism and more stress. I don't like that. I think, of course, that animals should be as well off as they can now be arranged, provided that we all want some eggs and some meat.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126133013	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126133014	That's fair enough. I am certainly looking forward to working to ensure better conditions for animals in production when we have had a phasing-out of caged egg production. Because if the objective is for animals to feel as good as possible, then I think we can make some pretty big improvements in Danish animal production.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126133032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126133033	There's always room for improvement. It develops over time, also because you get more knowledge about how animals benefit from good health and find out what the most optimal conditions for animals are. I myself have been working on cattle for a very long time, and this is a great step forward in the animal welfare field, including for cattle, and that is something that is being profited from. Because the better the animals feel, the less you have to get a veterinarian and the better the production results you get. So that is exactly the right way to go, and that is also what livestock producers are working for, that is to say, that animal welfare must be as high as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126133115	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. That's why we're grateful to Mr. Per Larsen and move on to mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126133123	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. In new citizens, we want to create the framework for modern high-tech agriculture. Agriculture is our cultural heritage and part of our future. Danish agricultural efforts form a cornerstone of Denmark's modern history. Agriculture is the basis of prosperity in Denmark, and that history is not over. Danish agricultural know-how is respected and sought-after throughout the world. New citizens will help restore respect for and recognition of agriculture in Denmark. A good framework for agricultural production and associated enterprises is crucial for rural areas. Rural areas are now threatened by depopulation and stagnation. We must counteract this by developing the agricultural industry, not by dismantling it, and certainly not at a time when the pandemic is pushing the Danish economy. It is stated in the motion for a resolution that barely 70%. of the population are against battery hens. In the case of battery hens, new citizens believe that consumers have every opportunity to opt out of it to the extent they wish, and this will automatically lead to a reduction in the number of battery hens, and that is exactly what we have seen in this area. We also say 'yes' to ecology, but 'no' to poor ecological support; organic production must not be artificially sustained by public subsidies or public procurement policy. Organic and conventional farming must compete on equal terms. Then consumers can decide for themselves what they want to buy from eggs, based on quality, price and animal welfare considerations. As I have said, the consumption of battery hens has steadily decreased in recent years, and now the government is making a proposal to actually introduce a ban, and a dialogue is being set up both with the political parties in which we naturally also wish to participate, and a dialogue with the industry to dismantle it in a sensible way, with a time frame and with a compensation that makes sense. We would like to go into that work, but we do not support the resolution as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126133337	A brief comment from Mr. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126133338	Thank you very much for that and, of course, I welcome the fact that New Citizens recognise that there is a majority in this Parliament for making a ban on caged eggs, and thus also signals a constructive approach to this work. On the other hand, what I do not understand in the rapporteur's speech is something else. After all, I was very happy when, at the beginning of the year, we in the Folketing, in fact all parties, adopted a new animal welfare law, and I also fully agree that not only can progress be made overnight, because it is also a long-term thing. But New Citizens helped to adopt the new animal welfare law, which states in the purpose that animals are recognised as sensory and living beings. So I would just like to ask how the rapporteur feels about the fact that the rapporteur is actually advocating that we still have caged eggs in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126133436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126133437	I have just said that we would like to enter into a dialogue on phasing out caged eggs if we do so in a way that also respects the investments made by the industry and with a time horizon that is relevant. We are also concerned that a large proportion of the population do not want caged eggs anymore, and we also think it is important that the legislation that we adopt in here should flee with the attitude of the people. And this is something that's developing. So, 20 years ago, there was probably not a large majority of the population against battery hens, but there is today. And I think that's a course we should deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126133519	Sir. Anders Kronborg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126133520	I fully acknowledge the answer and just want to say thank you for a very good answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126133526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126133528	Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126133537	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126133539	Thank you, President. Forty years ago, Aarhusian Gnags made the song "Burjæjæn". The song tried to shout about the terrible conditions in which caged hens live. It was 40 years ago, and it is actually amazing that we are not doing anything about it until now in the Folketing. For many years there has been cynicism in the times when the welfare of many different production animals has been totally ignored. Fortunately, animal organizations have been working for a long time to soften that cynicism. Fortunately, Danish supermarkets have been working since 2016 to phase out eggs from caged hens. 70% the Danish people believe that keeping battery hens is unacceptable, and several European countries have already done what we are doing today, namely to ban battery hens altogether, both sales and use in food dishes. Peter A.G. from Gnag's song 40 years ago: Ask me about such a grill/Gi'r hard skin and pie under my toes / Ask me if it pulls up in.../Where I have lost the feathers. And yes, it probably pulls up where the hen has lost its feathers, and not just that: A caged chicken life is one of the saddest lives you can live. The chickens are caged where they can move in an area corresponding to an A4 sheet plus one postcard per. Hen. That means they can't even stretch their wings out, and then they don't have access to a chicken farm. The circadian rhythm of the hen is disturbed by artificial light so that the production of eggs can be kept to the highest possible level. From stress and frustration, they pick the feathers themselves and peck each other into blood. When chickens do not live under conditions that support their needs, both their bones and muscles become weak, as well as increasing the risk of fractures of legs and wings. And for that not to be a lie, it's all life. It's for life. It must be done as quickly as possible. The alternative is in favour of this proposal and we are pleased that Enhedslisten has put it forward and that, regardless of their vote against the proposal today, the government will phase out caged eggs by law. But, Minister, it can only go too slowly. In the alternative, we would like to see very few years. Furthermore, I hope that the phasing out of caged eggs is only the start of phasing out terrible living conditions for a large number of other domestic and production animals. The time of cynicism for production animals and for livestock must also be phased out and replaced with a time when we are also able to show empathy for animals.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126133841	Thank you to the rapporteur. As there are no brief comments, Mr President, we shall move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126133854	Thank you and thank you for the debate. I think that when I get home to Jutland like this at the end of the day, I'll hear Gnags' Burdjælles and enjoy the day today. I would like to thank the Minister for having come to the conclusion that there must be an end date for caged hens in Denmark and hence for caged eggs. I think that is most welcome. With this resolution, the Unity List has proposed that caged eggs and caged hens should be phased out by the end of 2022. And if we had not set that date, surely we would not have had the debate about when it was the right date to phase it out completely. So sometimes you have to put up a proposal politically with something precise, and I really think that this is a reasonable planning phase when you look at the fact that you would then have two years to phase out battery hens in Denmark. You can probably have two chicken teams before then, so it is actually a rather moderate proposal we have, but of course it is significant. I think there is reason to thank all those who have done something on the way to phasing out battery hens. There, there are organisations such as the Animal Protection, Anima and the Organic Landsforening, which have played an excellent part in highlighting what animal welfare problems may be associated with egg production. And I think it is remarkable that consumers in Denmark have so much taken a position, so we are up to that approx. 30% of the eggs sold in Denmark are organic. And that is, of course, in an agriculture where the organic area has only reached 10%. Then you have some consumers who demand organic eggs, so that 30%. of the total sale of eggs in stores are organic eggs. I think that's really nice. Consumers have shown the direction there, and then there are some retail chains that have listened to consumers. They want to sell what can be sold, and that is why it has helped to phase out the cage eggs. It is also a good thing that there are some chains in relation to the industrial products where eggs are included, for example. In cookies and mayonnaise and stuff, goes ahead, demands something and says: We don't want caged eggs in those products either. What kind of production do we say goodbye to when we phase out the cage eggs? But it is a production where hens are kept in cages with net floors, where each hen has an area equivalent to an A4 sheet plus a postcard, and where there are typically ten hens in such a cage. They have sitting sticks, there is a nest and there is a small area of bedding, but the individual hen is actually very limited in relation to animal welfare. The cages are typically stacked on three floors, standing in long rows in a closed barn building, and there are no windows or daylight. There is thus a control of day length and day rhythm, so that as many eggs as possible can be produced. It's kind of the reality that's inside the closed stable. And it is not an open stable door that has been kicked in with our proposal today. From the point of view of the Enhedslisten, we have taken this proposal politically and brought it into the Parliamentary Chamber, and it is gratifying today that the Social Democrats have moved so that we can enter a serious phase of dismantling battery hens in Denmark. Of course, this can happen in many ways. It may happen in such a way that there are probably some egg producers who, when they see the writing on the wall in relation to having to dismantle caged hens, then settle it before the end date to which it is added. There are a large number of countries in the European Union that have decided to phase out battery hens, and I think it is obvious that we are looking very closely at what conditions in Germany, Austria, Luxembourg and the Netherlands have been in relation to the processes of phasing out battery hens. What are some support systems that may have been? What are the deadlines that have been set? And what has been the driving force for making those decisions and phasing them out? Will this proposal to phase out caged eggs lead to job losses? I don't think so. There is, of course, the possibility of emptying the cages and using the same buildings for poultry production. Nor can I imagine that it is the huge losses that will be associated with this, because the cages are typically something that has been invested in when improved cages were called for around the year 2010. So we have to deal with the fact that there is some old barn furniture which can probably still be used away, but which is heavily penned, and then there are some buildings that can be reused and some facilities where eggs can be handled, which can also be used if there is another egg production. The proposal also takes account of the fact that Enhedslisten proposes that the government investigates what it will cost to convert current caged egg production into more animal-friendly egg production, and subsequently considers setting up a pool so that producers can get support for this restructuring of their production. It would, of course, be obvious to see whether it is something that can be included in the agricultural support funds, or it is something that should be included in the Finance Act, but it is not this year, because even in Enhedslisten's moderate proposal to phase out caged eggs in two years there is time to find out how best to achieve this. I also think it is worth saying that we are now on the way to winning that the cage eggs are being phased out, but there is a reason to focus on what animal welfare is in agriculture, what kind of production conditions it is. In the Enhedslisten we have the clear position that we want to convert all agriculture into organic farming. If you look at the conditions that hens have in organic farming, then there is a requirement that there is an outdoor area available all year round; that each hen has 4 m2 outdoors, and there is a requirement that there are only six hens per hen. square metres indoors, and there are clear demands that chickens should not be beaked and a large number of other requirements, which have been reached by trying to take account of the natural behaviour of animals. Of course, the rules governing chicken farming are changing, and I am sure that they can improve in this way, and that the agricultural aid schemes that are coming from the European Union can also improve because it can allow more trees to be kept on agricultural land without being withdrawn from agricultural aid. So we look into something where there is an animal production in Denmark, which takes place outdoors, where livestock can get better conditions, by there being more planting. I do not think, according to the debate we have had today, that animal welfare should only be measured by how long a production animal lives. It's too one-sided. We need to look at what animal welfare animals have in the short life they have in production farming. I would like to thank the SF and the alternative for the wholehearted support for the proposal. I would like to thank the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and Radicals for their support, with their reservations about the Enhedslisten's proposal. And then I would say that what Gnags sang about was: "There was a rumor going under the filament lamp/Ka's happen it was just a tale:/A chicken that was once allowed to/Bli's incubated out of a real chicken. And then the song goes on to say that those chickens on that little farm up at Skagen were interned by a greedy man and had a life like a cagebug, and why did people do that? Yes, they did, because perhaps as humans they needed to be better off than the animals that are worst off. That's kind of what it says in Gnags' song. I do not have the approach that I believe that members of parliament or other people need to be better off than the animals that are worst off, but we, as Parliament and as citizens, as consumers, must take responsibility for what is produced in agriculture and what is bought. That is why we have an obligation to tighten up the conditions for production animals, for livestock in agriculture. So thank you for the debate. I look forward to having a further discussion on how fast this is going and how we do it the best way to evacuate cages from battery hens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126134816	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126134830	The debate is open. Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126134851	Thank you to the Enhedslisten for having tabled the motion for a resolution. Following the resolution, the government is required to introduce a ban on the production of turbochickens, the so-called Ross 308, by the end of 2022 at the latest. Meat from fast-growing chicken breeds is significantly cheaper than meat from slow- and slower-growing breeds. The government estimates that a ban on the production of Ross 308 would result in an increased import of cheaper chicken meat from fast-growing chickens, which is easily available as the production of Ross 308 is worldwide. Imports cannot be prohibited under EU rules on the free movement of goods, and a ban will therefore have negative socio-economic consequences without hindering the sale of meat from Ross 308 on the Danish market. The Government therefore considers that instead of banning the rearing of a specific chicken breed, efforts should be made to ensure that consumers increasingly choose products that do not come from fast-growing chickens. The government wants a higher level of market-driven animal welfare so that consumers demand and buy chickens labelled with the state animal welfare mark or the red Ø label or labelled as free-range chickens for fattening. It should be sought that Danish chicken chicken production is eventually converted to these breeds. In recent years, there has been a clear positive attitude in the industry, in the retail trade and in the consumer sector, which suggests that such a change can take place gradually without a definite ban on fast-growing breeds. Since 2001, there have been rules in Denmark for teams of chickens for fattening, in other words even before EU requirements were laid down in 2007, which took effect from 2010. The rules for the rearing of chickens for fattening are laid down in the legislation on the keeping of chickens for fattening and in the regulation on the keeping of chickens for fattening and the production of hatching eggs for the production of chickens for fattening. The Danish rules implement the EU rules in the so-called broiler directive, but in some areas they are more ambitious and stricter than the EU requirements. According to the rules, there are among other things. the maximum stocking density of the broiler herd may be required to regulate the density of chickens. The rules also require the crew to have a light programme to ensure that the chickens receive dark periods and are not kept in constant light. It is also clear from the rules that all teams of broilers submitted to the slaughterhouse must be examined in order to assess welfare indicators such as: Steppadswitnesses, i.e. corrosivity on the feet of chickens. The specific Danish monitoring of tread pads goes beyond the EU requirements of the broiler directive, which does not specify how the monitoring at the slaughterhouse is to take place. According to the Danish rules, all teams must be assessed according to a carefully defined scoring system. In other words, there are a number of animal welfare requirements for broiler herds and there is a requirement for continuous monitoring of compliance with the rules. According to the Central Animal HealthRegister, CHR, there are 218 herds with conventional chickens for fattening and 27 herds with organic flocks of chickens for fattening. About one year olds are bred. 104 million chickens for slaughter in Denmark, and there are approx. 19 million chickens reared in Denmark but exported for slaughter abroad, typically in Germany or the Netherlands. The largest part of the production includes the fast-growing race Ross 308, the so-called turbochicks, which are bred all over the world. In recent years meat from slower-growing chicken breeds has increasingly found its way to the cooling discs. These are organic and free-range chickens, but also other slower-growing chickens sold under the state animal welfare mark. These slow- and slower-growing chickens currently account for 8 million of the chickens slaughtered in Denmark. As mentioned, there is a continuous monitoring of the welfare of each team of chickens submitted for slaughter in Denmark. In addition to tread cushions, other welfare indicators are also seen in connection with slaughter, e.g.: mortality, very dirty plumage, scratch marks and corrosivity on breasts or hasses. If there are problems, the FDA will follow up to the producers so that the conditions in the crew are repaired. The Danish rules on control and follow-up go further than the EU's requirements, and only a few countries have similar requirements. In addition to the controls at the slaughterhouse, normal welfare checks are also carried out in the flocks with broilers, as in the case of other animal species. On the basis of the checks, the Danish Food Authority estimates that the compliance with the rules in broiler herds is generally good and the level of sanctions is low. As mentioned above, the Danish rules for the holding of chickens for fattening involve, inter alia, that a sample from each slaughtering team with chickens should be examined for tread pads. Studies on the presence of tread cushions are an important tool in the monitoring of animal welfare in chickens for fattening. The weaves are due to damp, ammoniaous bedding, and moist bedding can be the result of many different conditions that reflect e.g.: poor management, disease, wrong feed or other problems. In other words, it is a welfare indicator that gives a good picture of the conditions in the herd. Since the monitoring of tread cushions began in 2002, there has been a good development, where the incidence of swings has decreased considerably and is now at a relatively low level. This is therefore a generally positive development in relation to the welfare of chickens. The motion for a resolution points to problems with the walking properties of chickens for fattening. For many years, the focus has been on the poor walking characteristics of many chickens for fattening. This has been attempted with particular breeding efforts and developments have been followed with various studies over the years. The latest study from Aarhus University is from 2017 and showed a positive development with a generally better walk, but there are still a number of chickens that do not go normally. Developments are followed by ongoing studies. A new scientific study from autumn 2020 published in the journal Nature suggests that in chickens with slow growth there are better results compared to among others. tread cushions and walking characteristics than in fast-growing chickens. It advocates increasing the use of slower-growing breeds. In the autumn of 2018, the animal welfare mark was extended to chickens for fattening, and in early 2019 the animal welfare mark chicken meat was found in the retail trade. The aim of the label is to improve animal welfare for as many animals as possible, including chickens for fattening. The animal welfare mark clarifies the level of animal welfare in an easy and manageable way. In this way, consumers become aware of how they can contribute to better animal welfare. It is market-driven animal welfare. The label has been developed in interaction with a wide range of stakeholders in a partnership with producers, animal welfare organisations, veterinarians, slaughterhouses and not least the retail trade. The label contains a number of requirements for production, both in the barn, during transport and at the slaughterhouse, and is subject to State control. The mark is found in three levels with one, two, and three hearts, and animal welfare improves for each heart added to the mark. All requirements are beyond Danish and European legislation. It is a basic requirement of level 1 to use slower-growing chickens for fattening that grow at least 25%. slower than Ross 308. There has been an increasing growth of the animal welfare mark chicken meat in the retail trade, especially in the last 6 months. The value of fresh chicken meat in the retail trade for the animal welfare mark is 35%. There's 34 percent today. under the mark and several sign up for the scheme. That's a good thing. Marketing of the animal welfare mark is important in this context. We know from the Ministry's latest YouGov survey that the Danes' knowledge of the brand has increased significantly in the last year, and about half of those who have at least heard about the label are following it in purchasing situations. Next year there will be 2.5 million. kr. for the marketing of the animal welfare mark, where they 0.5 million. kr. is marked separately for a campaign focusing on animal welfare-marked chicken meat, including on slower-growing chickens. This shall ensure that the animal welfare mark is visible and close to the citizen throughout 2021. In addition, Denmark is working towards a coordinated approach to market-driven animal welfare within the EU, including the establishment of a common EU animal welfare mark that is market-driven and voluntary for producers. Here the criteria for individual animal species and levels should be similar to those found in the Danish brand, including for chickens for fattening. The production of fast-growing chickens for fattening in the form of Ross 308 is worldwide. There will therefore be a large foreign market which continues to produce fast-growing chickens, even if a ban is introduced here in Denmark. Fast-growing chickens are cheaper than slow-growing, and it is therefore also to be expected that there will still be a market for cheap chicken meat in Denmark, although a Danish ban on the production of fast-growing chickens is being imposed. It is also to be expected that demand will be met by the import of cheap chicken meat. Under EU rules, Denmark cannot prohibit the importation of meat from fast-growing chickens legally produced in the EU. The government focuses on the welfare of the animals we keep in agricultural production in Denmark. In the case of chickens for fattening, rules have been laid down to assess on an ongoing basis whether the welfare of broiler herds is in order. Although not all problems have been resolved, the ongoing monitoring of tread cushions, maximum stocking density requirements and light programmes have led to a positive development of the welfare of flocks of chickens for fattening. I believe that a Danish ban on the production of fast-growing chickens would increase the import of cheap chicken meat, not only from other EU countries, but also from third countries which have a high production of fast-growing chickens. A Danish ban would therefore have negative consequences socio-economically for Denmark, while other countries would be able to market cheap chicken meat in Denmark. Instead of a ban, the government will therefore work to ensure that more consumers make use of the option of choosing meat from slower-growing chicken breeds, which among other things. the official animal welfare mark and the eco-label allow. In my opinion, it is a better solution for consumers to help create better animal welfare for more Danish farm animals so that the demand for meat from fast-growing chickens is minimised and there is instead an increased consumer wish for slower-growing chickens. The animal welfare mark clarifies the level of animal welfare in relation to chicken meat in an easy and manageable way. In this way, consumers become aware of how they can contribute to better animal welfare. The positive development experienced with the animal welfare mark, including announcements from supermarket chains, which will reduce or phase out the sale of fast-growing chickens and instead promote the sale of slow-growing chickens, suggests that the market is already moving actively in this direction. A gradual change in accordance with the consumer wishes allows Danish broiler producers to switch to the production of slower-growing chickens in a way that is appropriate for producers and beneficial for the economy. At the same time, consumers are free to choose chicken meat from different types of slower-growing breeds. Against this background, our message is that the government cannot therefore endorse the resolution, but would like to work for better animal welfare through market-driven animal welfare and better labelling.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126140249	Thank you, Minister. There are brief comments. First, it's from sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126140252	Thank you for that and thank you for the Minister's speech. The line taken by the Minister here is basically a continuation of what was also in the time of the Blue Government, so I am satisfied with that. That is why we can, of course, support that line. I am also pleased that the Minister speaks on several occasions about such a market-driven approach to it, and that it is the consumers who ultimately decide. So that's good. Then there is also a clear indication that there must continue to be good and sensible chicken production in Denmark, so that we can also get a good chicken roast on the table, produced in Denmark. That's good. My question to the Minister comes here. If the Minister is also going to have a discussion with the industry, following on from the caged egg case that we have just discussed, could we not also have an updated basis and evidence that chicken production in Denmark is in fact significantly better on all parameters, including animal welfare, than the foreign chickens? This could be part of the follow-up to inform consumers well that you can safely choose the Danish chickens, because they are the best.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126140406	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126140407	Thank you very much to Mr Left. Erling Bonnesen for good questions. The fact that we have a resolution like this makes it possible for us in Parliament to have a useful discussion on animal welfare and also to remind ourselves that we have actually managed to get better animal welfare, including in the field of chicken, because consumers also demand that we want these things to be sorted out. And not only are there EU requirements in this area, but Denmark has also shown the way by having requirements that are more ambitious in this field. Then we have an animal welfare labelling system so that consumers can go down and choose what is right. There we very much hope that the trend we saw in relation to caged eggs, from which consumers very much chose it, will prove equally effective in this area, so that we get this market-driven change where consumers agree with the shopping basket and choose animal welfare. It makes sense. So, yes, I believe in good cooperation about this, too, and it's a good idea to know how good animal welfare is in Denmark in this area compared to other places.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126140520	Sir. Erling Bonnesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126140521	Thank you for your receipt and we would also like to come to the table to the extent that we are invited. And we want a strong emphasis and clear indication of this, and I hope that the Minister can also confirm in his second reply that yes, there must continue to be a good and strong chicken production in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126140540	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126140541	Now we had the opportunity to discuss some of the same things when Mr. Erling Bonnesen asked me in the Chamber yesterday about how food production should be in Denmark in the future. And what the government wants is for us to continue to be a strong food-producing nation. It is important for us and important for our exports that we have high quality in our food production, and that of course also applies to chickens. After all, it is very good for consumers to stick to the fire so that we always have the best possible quality and also the best possible animal welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126140615	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126140617	Well, I can tell it's a little more uphill with this than with the cage eggs and the cage hens, and I can't do this all by myself. I dream that some rock band is going to make a song about the turbochick and help turn the mood around, so you can shout more politicians, and it has to be a music that is better than the one that is outside right now. I think it's a little naive to think that the consumer can sort of turn this whole thing around. With a production of over 100 million chickens for fattening, a large part of which goes for export, I would say that it may well be that some supermarkets can be affected by consumers starting to buy something else, for example. slow-growing chickens, but it is a lot uphill if we are to ensure that the entire production in Denmark is changed, because there is so much export. So I think that we are dealing here with a somewhat different dilemma, and I do not think that the thing about market-driven animal welfare is the best thing. We stand here in Parliament as politicians. How about having a politician-driven animal welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126140724	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126140725	Thank you very much for Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's always committed post. I have great respect for the level of ambition in relation to animal welfare. The reservations we make today are, of course, that you can sometimes find yourself in a situation where you raise the tab so high that you cannot reach the ground. If it is the case that we introduce very strict rules and ban these turbochicks altogether, we risk that the good jobs and the good economy in producing chickens in Denmark will disappear elsewhere, where the same considerations are not taken into account, and we will in fact be able to create a situation where chickens are then produced under even worse conditions in other countries. That is why it is about looking into a relative reality and saying: yes, it could be better; we hope that consumers are taking it in the right direction, but Denmark is better than so many other places, and it is not now that we have to impose a ban, because then we risk that production will move to other countries where they do not have the same standards at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126140830	Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126140831	Well, what Enhedslisten is proposing is a phasing out of the turbo chicken over a few years, and many teams of chickens can get through the production facilities you have. But it is not just a question of trying to have a slightly better animal welfare. The problem is, of course, that we are dealing here with a chicken which grows so fast in 14 days that it cannot stand on its feet and thus has some problems in the production apparatus we have. Whether you gave a little more space to this chicken, it would feel bad because it grows so fast that its internal organs cannot keep up. In other words, we are dealing here with a production animal which has been refined up to something that should not be in production farming.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126140912	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126140913	When I listen to different descriptions of what the consequence is when it comes to these turbochicks, there are a little different interpretations of what reality is like. And I just have the advantage of visiting a chicken farm that produces these turbochicks. Now I have announced that my future work will also be about being in dialogue with the industry, and there I hope to be able to come out and watch such production to see for myself what the consequences are. I am only interested in keeping as up to date as possible in this area. We have to follow developments here. For the time being, I am just glad that consumers are showing the way and are increasingly emphasising animal welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126140956	Then it's mr. Carl Valentin, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126140957	Thank you. The Minister is talking about the need for market-driven animal welfare, and he is, in fact, also paying tribute to the fact that consumers, like turbochicks, opt out. That is why I want to know whether he thinks that we as a state, for example. And maybe the public kitchens should pick turbochicks off. We run the market, we're buyers. Could the government be in favour of the public's stopping buying turbochicks?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126141025	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126141026	Thank you for the constructive proposal. These are, of course, some of the considerations you have when you make these purchasing policies. After all, there is a balance between what the price is, what the quality is and what is for other reasons, including animal welfare. It is, of course, an obvious parameter to have included in these discussions. I can't stand here on the platform and knock out my arms and say, "Here's what I'm gonna do, I'm gonna run the government's dance card and promise this." I think that is simply unrealistic. But I think it is a good thing that it is being brought up and I would like to help ensure that we have a discussion on what we can do in this area. For many places, public opinion can help to show a way and drive development, and that can also be considered in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126141112	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126141113	Now we have just discussed caged eggs, and here the Minister would like to phase out production, but it will take a few years. Although one is now ethically convinced that one cannot vouch for this production, it takes a few years before it can happen. Could it make sense in relation to turbochickens to say that we are phasing this out over a perhaps five-year or six-year period, because there will also be the market being driven? In other words, could we do something to take a long look at it and say that far in the future we would like it to be phased out so that we would not be in a situation like the cage eggs, where we would really like to dismantle it, but then we would have to push it a few years, because it is a difficult process?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126141154	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126141155	When it comes to these chickens, we are not going to support the proposal here to ban them. That is why we do not propose that there should be any phasing-out plan for this either, simply because we consider that we risk moving the problem to other countries where animal welfare is then inferior, and losing jobs and losing income for Denmark. So it is from this point of view that we have a reservation here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126141219	Then we would like to thank the Minister, because there are no more brief comments. First, it's sir. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126141230	I would like to start by saying thank you to the Enhedslisten, as before today, for tabling this motion for a resolution. I think it is really nice to have the opportunity to discuss animal welfare here from the platform. What we are discussing today is the chicken of the Ross 308 breed, which is common both as chicken for fattening in Denmark and also in the European Union, but certainly also in the rest of the world. And unlike in the discussion on caged eggs, we have to admit that the Ross 308 chicken is still the most common type in the production of chickens for fattening and thus a chicken that many Danes still buy. However, there should be no doubt that the Social Democratic Party would like more consumers to opt out of Ross 308 in favour of other chickens that are slowly growing. The animal welfare mark is a good tool for what has made it easier for consumers to make good ethical choices at the cooling counter, and that is something we see in relation to other things. However, we are still of the opinion that a ban on Ross 308 in Denmark will not necessarily have the desired effect, and that is really what it is all about. Because one can easily imagine that the same type of chicken will instead be bought abroad, where we, as politicians and as Danes, do not have the opportunity at this stage to impose a definite ban on trade. That is why, of course, we are very concerned that consumers have an influence here, but we are also very concerned that it is in fact on this issue that we believe that joint European action can be one of the keys to ensuring better animal welfare for chickens for fattening. That is why Denmark must actively enter into these discussions at the heart of the European Union, and the Minister could tell us this before that you are actually working actively on the European animal welfare label, which can raise consumer awareness and thus animal welfare throughout the European Union. Social democracy cannot support this resolution, but of course we are always prepared to discuss how animal welfare can improve. But with the laid-out points, that's how we see this chicken, if you can say "cut."
ParlaMint-DK_20201126141538	There are brief comments. First, it's from sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126141540	Thank you for that, and also thank you for the fact that the Socialist rapporteur naturally gets into the slipstream of his minister. That was also what was expected. I would like the rapporteur to take a more specific approach to the EU track, i.e. implying that it is important, hopefully also from the point of view of the Social Democrats, that there should be good and strong chicken production in Denmark too. It should simply not be called into question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126141613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126141614	Thank you very much for that question, and I really believe that I will answer it in such a way that, regardless of whether we are talking about animal welfare or whether we are talking about green conversion, Denmark must, of course, be a pioneer country. But a pioneer country will not continue to be a pioneer country if what we are doing is to dismantle production. We must remember that this production provides many jobs, it employs farmers, it employs slaughterhouse workers. I think it is important that we pursue a lead here at home, which the Minister has also been able to explain, namely that there is welfare control, and we actually see that the breeding work has meant that the problems that were 10 years ago are not there at all to the same extent at the present time. And there I am afraid that if we just go in and phase out this production with one blow, we will move jobs and, if you will say so, lower animal welfare for the other European countries. That is why we have an interest in fighting for this issue in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126141722	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126141723	Thank you. I think that was a good answer. Perhaps just the last thing is missing, namely emphasising, is also seen from the Social Democrats' point of view to be a good Danish strong chicken production. Change and development are fine, of course we are all aware of that. However, it should not be called into question that there should be chicken production in Denmark in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126141743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126141744	But the Social Democrats have in no way called into question the fact that the Social Democrats want to have a strong animal production in our agriculture. You can't find a single line, a single decimal point, a single dot against it in this time when we've had government power. But this is not the same as saying that animal production should not develop in a better and more appropriate direction when we talk about animal welfare. Nor is it a sign of equality which means that we cannot get even better when we, for example, are able to do so. talk climate and green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126141818	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126141818-2	Thank you to the rapporteur. It is good that the rapporteur likes to discuss animal welfare. I think there is a dilemma here. In this case, the rapporteur says that it is up to consumers to develop it, and then it is hoped that something can happen in the European Union that has the desired effect. I would really like to ask whether this is something that is realistic, in other words that we should get the whole of the European Union to take the lead in animal welfare at once. Then I noticed that the rapporteur said that animal welfare here by 2020 should be better in chicken production than in the past. Well, what's the justification for that? Have we not just gone in the opposite direction in that some very fast-growing chickens have been reared which have caused some animal welfare problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126141917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126141918	Thank you very much for the question, which, moreover, contains many nuances. I fully agree with the rapporteur that if the EU trail is to be pursued, it obviously requires political will, both at ministerial level and, of course, also at parliamentary level in the European Parliament, and there we also have a responsibility from this Parliament to influence our politicians in the European Union. Recently, for example, there was one. a vote in the European Parliament on bullfighting, which I regard as completely headless when it comes to animal welfare. For example, the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left voted in the European Parliament. in order to maintain where the red parties voted against. I believe very much in a common European track because moving a production out of Denmark has some negative consequences in relation to animal welfare. Then we are asked about the welfare of these chickens, and I do not share the rapporteur's view that this is going the wrong way. I am here with some figures from the Ministry of the Environment and Food, and there I can see in black and white that the development has actually improved when we, for example, see it. Talking fast compared to these chickens. So this is an example of how we are actually working to improve animal welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126142027	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126142028	Well, I really think we owe it to try to take the lead. That's what we do, among other things. has chosen in the field of ecology in Denmark. There we are European champions, and it is just before we are world champions in ecology if you look at area and turnover in the ecology industry. Now we have a target of 25%. in the EU; it is not something that has been adopted, but it is something that is flying. Can the rapporteur not see that there is some potential for going further in a single country and showing what it is that can be done in concrete terms with the development of agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126142059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126142100	Yes, but again: my point is that I do not think that going ahead and being a pioneer country means dismantling production. I really believe that this is a development of production, and that is also the lead I am trying to pursue here in the platform. From the previous questioner, from the SF, when the Minister was up, a question was asked about a, I think, nuanced approach to the public kitchens that you might be able to make some elements there and take the lead. And we are very prepared to be able to discuss nuances. We are just not prepared to say that on day one we are sending a whole production out of Denmark; it is not possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126142138	Thank you. Then it's mr. Per Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126142140	Thank you. And thank the rapporteur for his speech. I would like to know whether the Social Democratic Party intends and wishes to expand livestock production in Denmark, including chicken production. We have plenty of grain growing in Denmark, and the main component of chicken feed is grain; so it is also in many ways a sustainable production where raw materials are not to be moved very far.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126142208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126142209	In other words, we have no ambition to increase animal production significantly in Denmark alone. Conversely, we do not have any ambition to reduce animal production in Denmark either. We must improve animal production and we must have more green and more sustainable agriculture. That is why last year's Finance Act has provided us with a very large sum of billions, for example. to extract low-level soils from agriculture, simply to make agriculture more climate-friendly. So I see it as a fact that if agriculture in Denmark is also to be a role model in the future, to be a model, must be a place from which consumers in the other parts of the world demand goods, then we must take the lead in developing and not dismantling.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126142256	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126142257	Thank you. However, I had hoped to be involved in developing the strong position of strength in Denmark in relation to poultry production. In other words, we are major exporters of poultry and have very high animal welfare, a high veterinary level, and we can produce to all countries around the world. This is something that could be put on the line, because there are plenty of jobs both before and after, that is to say in feed, slaughter and all the way around.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126142328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126142329	It is not the case that we stand on our hind legs if anyone wants to expand their holdings in relation to chicken production. On the other hand, the rapporteur asks me whether we intend to support a major expansion of Danish agriculture. We do not have that, but, on the other hand, we do not have a great ambition that animal production should be reduced. Danish agriculture must have proper, stable framework conditions, and in the new year we will also be calling for negotiations on the future of agriculture, where we hope that we will be able to reach a broad settlement. And that's where I hope Mr. Per Larsen is sitting at the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126142403	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and we can therefore go further in the line to Mr Beazley's question. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126142415	Thank you. Danish chicken chicken production is among the world's leaders in food safety, food quality and animal welfare. Globally, we have seen a relatively small production of chickens in Denmark. However, we meet the EU's animal welfare requirements, and on top of that, as has already been mentioned, we have a number of special Danish requirements for animal welfare, for example. The Danish chicks must have free access to feed and water. Danish chickens should be given the opportunity to eat and drink when they are hungry what else? Bedding is required to be dry and porous throughout production, and good litter material, good feed composition, good climate management and ventilation are required in the sheds. And the light programmes, which have also been briefly mentioned, must be controlled so that there is at least 6 hours of darkness per day, under the understanding that a reasonable 24-hour rhythm is created for chickens. In Denmark, we generally have a low mortality rate in chicken production, and in the species Ross 308, the mortality rate in 2019, as I am told at least, was on average approx. 3% It is the lowest among the breeds we have at home, and generally we have chickens in Denmark that are robust and healthy. If you turn back the time and that is perhaps some of what some have done: looked a little back in the rearview mirror 10-15 years ago, you might find that there were some challenges and significant problems with chicken leg strength in relation to weight etc. But it is also good to be able to learn that it has long since been tackled and to do something about it. The industry has focused on it, and something is done about it through breeding work etc. I think that's good to see. So it's on the way forward, too, to become a more balanced and sustainable production and with a good focus on animal health and animal welfare. Although Denmark, with this proposal from Enhedslisten, should go and ban a certain chicken race, it will still be found on the shelves of the Danish grocery store, and then it will only result in increased imports. The market works and consumers decide the way and what to do in the shopping cart. There is an ongoing development from, if I may say so, one race to another, and the emphasis on quality things. It is therefore also good that we can help to ensure good consumer information through the various brands in this area. So, on this basis, it is our clear view in the Left that there must of course continue to be a good, strong chicken chicken production in Denmark, and we therefore reject the motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126142739	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126142742	Thank you very much, Mr President, to the rapporteur of the Left. Erling Bonnesen. After all, I share the view that we should remember that this is a profession which also employs a great many NNFs, in other words slaughterhouse workers, and many farmers. It is a major industry in Denmark, and that is why I am pleased to hear the rapporteur say that it is the EU track that we are going to be driving in here. There I hear that the rapporteur shares the view of the Social Democrats and the government. But I also get a little nervous because I know that when we come to Brussels, it is a major other animal welfare code that the Members of the Left have. After all, I was deeply shocked that the Members of the Left in the European Parliament can vote in favour of the fact that we still have to have bullfighting in Europe, in other words, some of the worst evil in which an animal is almost impaled and so on. So I would just like to hear whether the rapporteur from the Danish Parliament, from Denmark, will try to convince his Members of the European Parliament that an extra effort must therefore be made here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126142849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126142850	At any rate, I can clearly state that it is the Confederal Group of the European United Left and myself, as rapporteur for the party, who determine the Danish position in the matters dealt with in the Assembly: clear and clear labelling on it. There I have also highlighted our point of view, and I am pleased that we can put a good, stable line in order for us still to have strong chicken production in Denmark. The fact that there should then be some other views, including those of my own group in Brussels, must of course be a target. I do not always agree with them. Some of the points raised by the questioner may be an example of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126142931	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126142932	I fully acknowledge that, and I also acknowledge the rapporteur's contribution here. I am also saying that here I believe that the Left and the Social Democrats are relatively in line with the track. The challenge is, of course, that this line will have to be pursued together. We cannot just, if I may say so, put ourselves in this Chamber. It also requires a great deal of parliamentary work on the part of the rapporteur of the Left, and that is what I am asking. Will the Left make an extra effort to ensure that work is also being done here in Brussels?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143007	I can give a clear answer there: I have already done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143013	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's Mrs. Lise Bech from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143017	Thank you. This proposal from Enhedslisten to phase out the production of Ross 308 chicken, also called turbochickens, we in the Danish People's Party think is a good proposal. We can then say that Denmark's largest producer of chickens, Danpo, has announced that their producers must have changed production before the end of 2021. In addition, there are a handful of poultry slaughterhouses. However, with Danpo as the sovereign largest producer and their announcement of a change by 2021, the production of turbochicks will be more or less phased out, also because there are some supermarket chains that have announced that they will phase out the use of it here, just as restaurants and other retail chains have expressed the same attitude. The market and the industries are phasing out this type of chicken, and that is a very good thing, because I hope that in this way we can also avoid what is mentioned today, namely that there will be increased imports of chickens and then instead retain the Danish-produced chicken. For we must continue to have a strong production of chickens in Denmark. The majority of the chickens produced in Denmark are actually exported, so there may not be such an import. Actually, I don't think so. It will not really cost these producers anything in their production facilities to switch to another production. It can actually be done at no great cost. In the Danish People's Party we are also very concerned that it should be market driven, and I think it will be by itself, but in this case I would like to say that I think it is okay to help it a little along the way. We have had better animal welfare in Denmark, among others. with an animal welfare mark, but I would like to say that we support the Enhedslisten's proposal for a ban. Perhaps that is not the time frame, because now we need to see what is logical in relation to the market. But otherwise we would like to support this proposal so that we look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143253	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143257	Thank you for your support. I think it was a good thing that it came into the debate. I think it had begun to become a little one-sided with the rejection of the Enhedslisten's proposal, and I also think that there is some optimism in the Danish People's Party's rapporteur's presentation that now Danpo comes like and goes into a winding-up path in relation to Ross 308, and that it can lead to some things. However, we do have the dilemma, as the rapporteur also mentioned, of large exports. The Danish consumers and the Danish supermarkets cannot really control what they are exporting. So I think we have a dilemma here with the fact that if we want to give a broad priority to animal welfare, we will not avoid having to deal more critically with what kind of production animals are and what kind of breeds are used in production in Danish agriculture. Now we have the debate today, and I think this is the first time that a broilerace has been raised to this level, as in the fine speaking chair of the Danish Parliament, so I would like to end by thanking you for your support for our proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143401	Thank you. It's because I think that this whole thing with the chickens that actually live that way and get so little dark and so much light that they eat and grow everything, too fast in relation to their body, is not good animal welfare. So, although we are very much in favour of the market-driven, right here I think we should help it a little on the way. So I look forward to it being dealt with in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143434	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143436	I think it is good to hear that the rapporteur, like the rapporteur, has understood that here we have a chicken breed that grows too fast. Because when you listen to other rapporteurs, it is as if it is no longer such a problem, and that is perhaps one of the things that we should then have clarified in a committee reading: how big is the problem here that Ross 308 cannot stand on his feet after 14 days and that it is growing so fast that the internal organs cannot keep up with his body?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143459	I can only say that in this case we agree: we need better animal welfare for these chickens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143508	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143513	Most of all, I would just like to thank the rapporteur for his speech, which I thought was very fine. I really like it when it is this version of the Danish People's Party that we hear, i.e. the Danish People's Party that cares about animal welfare and takes a position in principle on it here, and which is actually also relatively progressive on the animal welfare issue. I think that is very positive and I hope that we can get good cooperation in pushing the government in this area. Because I think it's important that we phase out the turbochicks.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143542	Thank you. It's nice when you sometimes agree with each other, and that's because I think it's also a problem that they can't go after two weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143601	Thank you. Then it's mr. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143604	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for her speech. I am concerned a little if it is the case that the Danish People's Party supports this proposal and it will have major consequences for our large exports of chickens. Does the rapporteur not fear that this would distort competition in the sense that it is, after all, the chicken race that is mostly reared throughout Europe? If it is then phased out in Denmark, does the rapporteur not think that we will have difficulty in competing on the market?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143643	Actually, I don't think so. For when Danpo has already registered that they will only produce slow-growing chickens, it is often such a thing that spreads. In addition, of course, we must have this in place, so that there is also a feeling in the European Union that this is the way to produce proper chickens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143707	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143708	There are indications that the mortality rate of the Ross 308 chicken is actually lower than that of the breed that you think should replace them, namely that of the Ranger Gold. I think it is a little embarrassing if you do not have an alternative that is better. So here you have a breed where mortality is actually higher before they reach the slaughterhouse. So there is both a lower growth, so to speak, which can help to reduce competition, but also a higher mortality rate for the other race. This must mean that we are going to put ourselves at a disadvantage in competition on export markets.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143752	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143753	Again, I don't believe that. When Danpo, Denmark's largest producer of chickens • they produce over 90 percent. Of the chickens in Denmark, they take the lead and say they're gonna phase this out, I don't think so. In any case, it can be said that the slow-growing can, after all, be allowed to leave. Well, the others can't walk. There are many of them who after 2 weeks cannot go because they are constructed incorrectly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143822	Thank you. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143824	Thank you. I had forgotten in my own rapporteur's speech also to greet the Liberal Alliance, and I shall do so and say that they also support the line that I marked on the left side. I would also like to ask, in respect of the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party, if you are going into this, whether the Danish People's Party would directly vote in favour of the motion for a resolution here, whether it is not still the position of the Danish People's Party that there should still be a good, strong chicken production in Denmark. So you have to be so relaxed, but there must also be room for development. We all want to see positive developments, but we also need to ensure that there is still a good, large Danish chicken production.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143909-2	Yes, of course, and I actually said that in my speech. We must continue to have a good, strong chicken production in Denmark, and with Danpo as the absolutely greatest we will get, and I also say that the market driven is very important. So we're not just going to go into this one hundred percent, we're going to have a committee reading. We need to phase this out, but it is not the construction costs for the producers that are the problem here; it is more that we get the whole industry, the chicken butcheries and the consumers used to it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143950	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126143951	I wasn't really going to take the floor this time, but now I'm going to do it anyway, because I just needed some clarification. Now the rapporteur himself says a phasing-out, but if the rapporteur does not agree that before taking a closer look at it, we must also have looked at the improvements that have actually been made over the last 10-15 years, when, as I pointed out in my rapporteur's speech before, a number of improvements have been made in this area through breeding work, etc. It takes some time to develop things, but at least I believe that there is a positive development. Why don't we take a look at this first?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126144026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126144027	We have to do this at the same time, and we do so in committee. Of course, we must look at what has happened over the years. There's just no doubt that these chickens that get so much light and grow wrong don't have a good animal life. That's not good animal welfare. But I also think we need to phase this out.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126144048	Thank you. Then it's mr. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126144050	Well, that's quite a message we can hear from the platform from a large bourgeois party, so that you are just ready to phase out such a large production in Denmark, as in the case of a snap with your fingers. I hear that the rapporteur believes a great deal, and that is something I do myself in church on Sundays, but if we build this up on the facts, we know that from 2017 to 2019 there is actually an increasing import of chicken meat from Europe to Denmark, as I have at least understood. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur to take a look at what these facts are: the rapporteur is based on the fact that the dismantling of this type of chicken does not mean that production simply moves to other EU countries, so that we simply move a problem where animal welfare gets worse and where we move jobs out of Denmark. What are the facts on which the rapporteur is based rather than faith?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126144148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126144149	It is that Denmark's largest producer of chickens • a producer who also exports very much • redirects their production, i.e. their chicken producers will have to restructure by 2021 at the latest. And that means that when we have no more than a handful of chicken butcheries in Denmark, the others follow quickly, even when they get something like this presented by us that this is what we are doing: that we phase out this type of chicken.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126144227	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126144228	But if the others quickly follow suit, there's really no reason for us to start tearing the handles in here. What is quite factual is that we know that when we are a member of the European Union and we are a member of the internal market, we cannot, as a nation, ban this kind of chicken for the other European countries. And one thing is that we
ParlaMint-DK_20201126144302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126144303	We must do this by phasing it out so that it does not go too fast. It must be so that it spreads like rings in the water. We must also put on the EU track: production of these chickens must stop in the EU.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126144321	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur for the Radical Left, Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126144328	I think it's a really good day in the Folketing. I have to say that I am very uplifted after hearing the Danish People's Party's rapporteur's speech here today, because the reservations we had in my party were precisely about distortions of competition and exports. But it is absolutely right, as Mrs Lise Bech of the Danish People's Party says, that Danbo has decided to phase out the turbochick. And that is why it is perhaps not quite as dangerous as we thought, and it can be said that it would also be beneficial to those who choose that path, that everyone else does it too, because then it is not a distortion of competition for them. But, of course, we still have the EU perspective and the whole European market. But let me come back to the speech that I had actually prepared here. I was just so uplifted and very inspired by hearing the speech of the Danish People's Party. Because there's no doubt that it's not nice reading when you read about these turbochicks, that is, chickens growing so fast that the organs can't keep up, which means that many of them can't walk normally as they approach the time of slaughter. They're getting too much light. Now I also heard the Minister explain these systems, but as far as I can read, these systems mean that the amount of light is constantly being optimized so that they also grow as quickly as possible. And that's why it may not be so much to give them 6 hours of darkness, but it's something that increases their growth, and that's why you've chosen to do it. But that is why, regardless of how you turn and turn it, it is not an expression of good animal welfare, I think, when you read about this type of chicken, the turbochick Ross 308, a construction that means a chicken, which is such a little artificial construction, only made so that it can grow as quickly as possible so that we can slaughter it and sell it and eat it for the benefit of the economy, but certainly not for the benefit of animal welfare. And therefore there is no doubt that it should be a Danish target, and it is certainly a radical goal that we should have phased out this type of chicken in the long term. And I would say that virtually all the arguments point in that direction, with the exception of the export argument. And that is also the reason why we in my group have proposed that we do not support the resolution, but that we support a long-term goal of phasing out turbochick. But I also think that we should do more than just set ourselves a long-term goal. I think it might also be good in the light of Danbo, who is now winding up or phasing out the turbochick that we can be more concrete and in fact also demand a plan from the government in relation to its efforts in the EU to work for a phasing-out across the EU. That would certainly eliminate the competition problem that several people have pointed out. I also think that there may be reason to look at the fact that if we do not phase out the type of chicken, if there are still some things we can do to increase animal welfare. Could we look at whether we could regulate these times when it's bright and dark? So, could some demands be made in this regard? Could you make some other space requirements? It's not just for this type of chicken, but it's the one that fills the most on the Danish market. However, the fact that they go 20 large chickens of 1 m2 does not seem to me to be reassuring from an animal welfare point of view. So I would like to say from here today that the Radical Left supports a long-term phasing-out of turbochicken. We are not prepared to vote in favour of the resolution, but we would strongly recommend that the government work on a concrete plan, on the one hand, on how to work in the European Union to phase out this form of production or this breed, and, on the other hand, on what can be done specifically to increase animal welfare for these chickens as long as we still have them in Denmark. And then I think we should look at whether this phase-out at Danbo, which accounts for 50 million chickens a year, could actually be an argument for us to phase out this type of chicken in Denmark without it costing a lot of exports. But, of course, we have to look at that in respect of the people who live off of this... nobody wants to pull the carpet underneath them. However, if the market is actually moving in that direction, because a market leader here has chosen to go in that direction himself, then perhaps there is a dialogue with the industry ahead of us, in relation to whether this really was something that we could work together on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126144823	There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Radicals. Then it is the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126144829	Thank you. In fact, I believe that there is a likelihood that we will eat more chickens in the coming years, because more and more people are concerned about the climate impact from their diet, and there is a lot that has found out that if you eat chicken, it emits less than if you, for example. If we get fair climate taxes, then chicken will be part of the cheap meat if we continue to eat meat. I therefore believe that there is a likelihood of an increase in the market for chicken meat, and that is precisely why I think the debate on the welfare of chickens is quite important. It is not necessarily positive from an animal ethical point of view if people eat more chicken than pigs and cow, because the chickens are smaller and therefore, naturally, they also need significantly more animals to produce the same amount of meat. And that's why we have to debate this. I believe that the phasing out of Ross 308, the turbo chicken, is a rather important parameter in ensuring better welfare for chickens. It is also relatively easy to implement, as among other things. Mrs Lise Bech also pointed out from the platform, because basically this race is simply being replaced by another chicken race, which is growing more slowly. The problem with turbochickens is that they grow so extremely fast. Their legs cannot keep up, which is why most chickens are sitting down from 2-3 weeks of age. I think that's pretty violent. In addition, chickens are given a disproportionately large breast that disturbs their gravitational and balance point, and when we can see that three-quarters of Danish chickens cannot walk normally at the time of slaughter, then it is serious. I also think that the debate here reminds us of something important in relation to the animal welfare debate, and that is that the animal welfare debate should not just be about space and the conditions of animals. We have created some animals that suffer from their mere existence, and this happens because, when you make an animal team based on a focus on profit maximization, you will optimise the animal, thus ensuring that you produce as much meat as possible in the shortest possible time, and so animal welfare is affected. Regardless of how good conditions are given to a turbochick, it suffers simply by being there because we have bred an animal that is very unnatural. Unfortunately, this is a problem which is widely seen in animal production when animals are optimized, as were the machines. We can see pigs giving birth to too many kids. This is very important for how many piglets die in Denmark. We have cows with huge udders because they have to produce as much milk as possible. That could give them udder disease. We have chickens that lay sickly many eggs, 300 eggs a year, where in nature they would lay somewhere between 10 and 20 eggs a year, and it is also really hard for their bodies. There is, of course, the example of chickens growing very, very quickly, and this has an impact on their ability to walk, and it puts pressure on their internal organs and many other things. I think it shows that in our animal production we see animals too much as lunches on their feet instead of seeing them as the living and sensory and sensitive beings as they are, and I think that is generally an important point when we talk about animal ethics and animal welfare. In the first half of 2020, several chains, actually many, have already said away from this production. Both ALDI, Lidl, 7-Eleven, Scandic Hotels, LETZ SUSHI and several others have said: We will no longer serve turbochicks. So it is going relatively fast, and also with Danpo, as Mrs Lise Bech mentioned, this is actually something that is moving quite a lot in these years, and that is why I think it is good that it is coming up to this high political level. My final point is that, in addition to supporting the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution and considering that it is sensible to implement it, I think it should actually be implemented here as a natural consequence of the new animal welfare law we have been given. I would just like to quote from the law: the law aims to promote good animal welfare, including the protection of animals, and to promote respect for animals as living and sensory beings. The Law is also intended to provide for animal ethical considerations. ▪ When you read it, I do not think there is much room in the large framework legislation on animal welfare for the production of a type such as Ross 308, where the chickens have such poor conditions. That is why the SF supports this resolution and we also support phasing out production as a natural consequence of the new animal welfare law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126145329	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. So the next rapporteur is Mr. Per Larsen of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126145343	Thank you for that, President. We're going to be on the same line as the government on this issue. We have a high-quality chicken production in Denmark; well over 100 million chickens are produced there, and that gives plenty of jobs. This is sustainable production in many ways, and we know that the climate impact of producing chicken meat is much less than that of so many other types of meat, as the previous speaker said. So I also believe that there will be a growing market for chicken meat in the future. But it is clear that if you go in and make some regulations that are inappropriate in relation to the rest of the EU market, then our Danish producers are in a competitively inappropriate situation, and that is why we do not support the proposal that has been put forward. There are also some things in relation to how big the problem is. Well, what do you have to put in place? We can see that the Ross 308 chicken reaches the slaughterhouse alive to a greater extent than the breed that is intended to replace Ross 308 with that Ranger Gold. And I think it is appropriate for us to follow the EU path so that Danish producers continue to have fairly equal competitive advantages over the rest of the market. That is why it will be a no to the proposal from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126145538	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens. Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126145549	Thank you for the floor. As mentioned in my rapporteur's speech on B-16 on phasing out the production of caged eggs in Denmark, we in New Citizens want to create a framework for modern high-tech agriculture. Danish agricultural efforts form a cornerstone of Denmark's modern history. If some companies and agriculture mentioned by the authors of the motion for a resolution will switch their production, then that is quite fine. But companies and those parts of agriculture that want to do so must take the initiative and pay for it themselves. And ultimately it is the consumers who choose it and pay for it. We also say 'yes' to ecology, but 'no' to unfair ecological support. Organic production should not be artificially sustained by public subsidies or public procurement policies. Organic and conventional farming must compete on equal terms, because then consumers have the freedom to decide for themselves what they want to buy from chickens on the basis of quality and price and animal welfare considerations. Therefore, new citizens cannot support B 17.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126145656	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. And then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126145712	Thank you. And thank you for the debate so far. The reason why Enhedslisten has put forward this proposal is, of course, that, for animal welfare reasons, we want to phase out this turbochick, Ross 308, with a time limit called the end of 2022. I would like to thank the SF for its wholehearted support, and I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for overtaking Radicals inside and being more visionary of animal welfare in relation to poultry than Radicals were and are today. I have then been able to listen to the fact that there is some regard for production Denmark being taken here, and I really think that this is a bit surprising on top of the animal welfare law adopted by a unanimous Parliament. When I look at what it is like to say that there is a lack of animal welfare, which is for the chicken race called Ross 308, I find it hard to understand that you don't like to stop and say: Well, here you have come so far in breeding that it doesn't harmonize with the legislation you have in Denmark, just as I find it hard to understand that in a decree you had not come to the conclusion that there are some breeds that you cannot accept being used in our production facilities. Sometimes you grow up something that you can see the bias in. There are some cattle farmers who have Belgian blue-and-white cattle who find it difficult to give birth to a calf without a cesarean section, which makes most people stop saying: well, it has come a little too far, and a meat breed has been shown so meaty that it cannot even be born of a cow. That is why there are farmers who come to the realization that there is something where they can no longer be involved, and who think we should help those farmers, by imposing restrictions on what kind of livestock they must have. That is why we are raising the question. I think that with a chicken production of over 100 million pieces, of which 90 million is Ross 308, it is quite an important problem to travel to the Parliamentary Chamber. So it's not just some little niche with some chicken that grows too fast. This is simply a part of agriculture. It is also something that fills our exports, and it is also something that fills the shopping cart for many Danes. Now there is a majority in the Danish Parliament who like to suggest that it should be the Danes who like to decide it here. It is this market-based animal welfare that if consumers, who are fortunately also voters, come to the conclusion that they will opt out of Ross 308, then some politicians will say: Well, that's fine then. And then it's just like those who control evolution. That is where I think we, as politicians, have some obligations, especially when we have adopted an animal welfare law which specifies that animals are living and sentient beings, that is to say they are sensual, and that means that there should be limits to what will be accepted by the production of poultry. When you have a chicken ace that grows so fast, they grow from 40 g to over 2 kg in 5 weeks that it means that they have bone problems and cannot stand on their legs after 2-3 weeks, that is, that we have the situation that three out of four chickens cannot walk normally at the time of slaughter, due to an excessive breast that interferes with the chicken's gravitational and balance point, yes, then some politicians think: Well, it's just a meat lump that has to be at the slaughterhouse as soon as possible and become something that can go into the oven. But that's just not the approach Enhedslisten has to this problem. We will not win this case today, but I really hope that there will be a debate in society that will increase in strength. There are animal welfare organisations that have spotted that here we have a problem, and the Animal Protection, Anima and others are helping to focus on the fact that this turbochick is not something that should be in Danish agriculture and that it should therefore be phased out. This can easily be done in a controlled way, which Lise Bech raised in her speech, because it is just a question of some production facilities out there that breed chickens and where you should not buy the tiny chicken of this breed of 40 grams, but have to buy some other chickens and put in instead. Then it may be that they grow a little slower, so you can't have nine teams of chickens a year, but maybe only eight, and so it is. Then it may be that the chicken breast that you can buy down at the supermarket is going to be 2-3 kr. more expensive per year. This is what consumers will be faced with. However, as I said, thank you for the debate. I think that it can form the basis for a good committee procedure. I sense that there is something about something that has a slightly different perception of how bad leg problems and rapid growth are at stake. We need to clarify this in committee. I also think the Minister presented a number of facts which I think there is reason to look at more carefully in order to assess how the Danish chicken production is doing. So thank you for the debate so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126150241	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126150244	Well, in my own speech, I already acknowledged that I think it is a good thing that the Enhedslisten raises such a problem and that we are discussing this issue here in the Parliamentary Assembly. And if the Enhedslisten, in connection with the committee procedure, also thinks that this is something we can learn more about by getting on the lookout in the real world rather than just sitting in here and smartening us on this issue, then I will be open to the fact that we can go out into the real world, if you may say so, and look at this. Now it says on my screen that I have 4 minutes and 28 seconds left. I think that's a little too much. So that's also why I'm pulling the question a little bit no. I just want to hear from the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten whether he does not recognise that there is a challenge with the EU track and that there can actually be increased imports of what Enhedslisten would like to help ban in Denmark. I am here with an inspection report from 2018, where 46 crews were pulled out for inspection, and there I can see that zero orders and zero police reports have been given in connection with that visit. Then we can always discuss the rules and discuss what should be better, but according to these figures we have some producers who comply with and comply with the rules that we have set in this house. So I'm just thinking that Enhedslisten doesn't even recognise that there can be an EU track that is actually challenging?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126150412	Thank you for the honesty of speaking time instead of just using it. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126150417	So, with the rules of rotation that Enhedslisten has, I do not have the patience at all to wait for the European Union. We need to implement something here in the Folketing quickly. And then I would say that every day in the Enhedslisten, we think about the whole thing about meeting reality. In other words, the reality I come from is, among other things, that I am a trained organic farmer and have been responsible for agricultural production for 10 years, even where, for a large part of the period, there have been poultry. When I read about production conditions, where you have 40,000 chickens in a team, that when you look at this growth rate that these chickens have, and limited daylight and no access to get out, then I have to say that it is far from the reality that is in organic farming where you work in a completely different way with animal welfare. I am not saying that it is all rosy in the organic, but that is where we have chosen to set a set of rules that sets a high bar. You just have to say that when I see here in the Folketing working to wipe out the worst, I'll take that chance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126150518	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126150519	That's totally fair. And that's also why there's a straight line to this. When the government says they want to have a greater focus on, for example. organically in public kitchens, it also helps to promote a different chicken race from this one, because this chicken race is not part of organic production. All honour and respect for Enhedslisten's rotation principle and time horizon etc., but the reality is that sometimes supply and demand determine what consumers put in the shopping basket. This can still be produced in all of the other European countries. So does the rapporteur not at all recognise that there will only be increased imports into Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126150555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126150556	Yes, I recognise that the European Union's internal market is a problem if it is the case that you want to go further and have higher standards in Denmark than the European Union allows. That's how it's gonna be here. You're gonna get hit right away by the fact that you can't ban the import of this chicken. This is, of course, the dilemma in the European Union, i.e. that the self-determination of individual countries is limited.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126150617	Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Per Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126150621	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for giving his speech. When you read the comments on Enhedslisten's proposal here, you'll be somewhat distracted. It says: "More of the chickens experience organ failure because their internal organs cannot keep up with rapid growth. Their legs cannot keep up, so most chickens are sitting down from 2-3 weeks of age. So, most chickens are sitting down from 2-3 weeks old. I've been trying to find where I could find it. I can see that it is on the animal protection side, but there is no indication of the source. And then, if we look at what others come up with, then we have a professor of poultry diseases Jens Peter Christensen, who writes in relation to this disease: "In this context, mention should be made of the fact that few chickens actually have serious diseases. Some numbers indicate that three per cent. of the Ross 308 chicken does not reach the slaughterhouse, while that number is slightly higher for Ranger Gold. I think that these two things are a little contradictory.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126150725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126150726	But I think it would be good if we could get some sources from the statements which, among other things, were made during the committee's reading. The animals' protection has been included. I think that would be very nice, and if there are some production branches in Agriculture & Food or some others that have some other data, let us get it out. Let us have a fair debate. I'm very much in favour of that. I have just provided the information that I have been informed of in preparing this motion for a resolution. That is why it is in the comments on our proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126150800	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126150801	Thank you. In this respect, I am in fact very much in agreement with Mr Seligman. Anders Kronborg in that there may be a need for us to come out and look at some of the production forms in the country. There you could set up for a study trip. I would imagine that the new Minister would perhaps follow us.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126150821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126150821-2	Yes, I am aware that there are some farms that take great care of who gets into the stables. And I fully understand that, because you can't know what kind of infection you can carry in there. So I don't know if that's what it takes. I do not think I would change my position even if I came into such a barn where there are 40,000 chickens on the way to being slaughtered and living under conditions where they cannot come outside and scrape and get daylight.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126150854	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the resolution be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126150907	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126150932	First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. A motion for a resolution has been tabled to draw up a general rule on information and labelling of meat by method of slaughter. Proposers justify this by ensuring that consumers have a free choice as to whether or not they want to buy meat from halas-slaughtered animals. First of all, it is essential to emphasise that, in terms of animal welfare, there is no difference between conventional or religious methods of slaughtering. This is because the Danish rules, introduced in 2014 under a Social Democratic government, require prior stunning of the animals regardless of the method of slaughter. So since 2014 it has been like this: you have to sedate the animals before they are slaughtered. So it's all right with animal welfare. The labelling rules for food products are completely harmonised in the EU, and the information on which food labelling is mandatory is provided by EU rules. The Member States have thus agreed jointly on the information to be given on food. The method of slaughter is not one of the mandatory particulars. To introduce such a requirement would require a joint political decision in the European Union, as the labelling rules are, as I have said, completely harmonised. The Food Information Regulation provides for the introduction of national labelling requirements for foodstuffs only if the requirements are justified for at least one of the following reasons: public health protection, consumer protection, anti-fraud measures. Labelling by method of slaughter is deemed not to be justified on any of these grounds. When the regulation of slaughter methods in Denmark means that legal slaughter methods ensure an acceptable level of animal welfare, food safety, nutritional content and the quality and taste of the meat, which is what I am responsible for regulating as Minister of Food, then, in my view, labelling of meat by slaughter method is superfluous. Producers may at any time voluntarily introduce schemes allowing consumers to choose non-ritually slaughtered products. Of course, provided that the consumer is not misled. Thus, as a company, that is to say, producers as well as hospitals, nursing homes, etc., you can choose voluntarily to disclose or label, for example, halal or nonhalal, or the like, as long as the information does not mislead the consumer. In view of the overall arguments I have examined here, I do not believe that there are grounds for responding to the desire to introduce rules as proposed in this motion for a resolution, B 46, and we are inclined to reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126151251	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it's from Mrs. Marie Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126151255	Does the Minister not think that it is strange that consumers who are not Muslims and who are not interested in Denmark becoming more Islamic, or the world becoming more Islamic, through their meat consumption are going to support Islamic mission financially? Because that is the case. When halal is slaughtered in Denmark or elsewhere, you pay someone to give a halal blessing and a halal certificate, and that money is channelled further into Islamic mission or used to support mosques. Is it not strange that we should all support it, ignorant of our doing so? I cannot believe that it is impossible to see that anyone needs to be allowed, at least personally, to avoid supporting the Islamic mission in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126151400	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126151401	As a new minister for food, agriculture and fisheries, my focus is on food and on safety: that we can count on what we eat not to be something we become sick of; that we can count on the quality to be in order; and that we can count on animal welfare being managed. That's the area I'm assigned to manage. Religious relations are different, and I think we should stop starting to regulate in this area, just as we do not take a position on other attitudes in different slaughterhouses. It is a private matter and, as a consumer, I think one is concerned about whether the quality is in order, whether animal welfare is in order, whether the product is in order and whether one can be sure that it will not make one sick.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126151456	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126151458	But as a consumer, I am forced to give money to the Islamic mission through my consumption because I cannot be told whether it is halal or not halal. Sometimes you can get to know it, and then I can avoid it; other times I cannot get to know it, and then there is a risk that I personally will support Islamic mission in Denmark and thus support Denmark becoming less Danish and more Islamic. I think that is deeply, deeply immoral. I really think that this is wrong and the argument that everything should be one-way in the European Union, I do not think it is going to stand up either. Denmark could easily be a pioneer country in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126151532	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126151533	If I go down to the local bakery and buy rounds for the family, I can't know if the local baker makes a contribution to another religious group either. There is no way of knowing what you choose to support in private, and that is why I think you should be very careful that you have to have a labelling system which indicates what kind of belief you support in private. I find it difficult to see that such a label has anything to do with food safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126151606	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126151609	Thank you. The minister says that the slaughter is under control, because in Denmark we must not slaughter according to the methods we used to do without anesthesia. But on the FDA's website there is an overview of which EU countries are slaughtering by these methods. It also says on the Danish Food and Agriculture Authority's website that the goods are imported into Denmark and can be imported into Denmark without any requirement that they be labelled. Can the Minister for Food not see that when we have made rules on slaughter and animal welfare in Denmark, it is, of course, about us as consumers wanting to make sure that, when we buy food, there is an animal ethics behind which we can vouch for? It is therefore also reasonable that, when we import meat or other food products, Danish consumers should be able to be sure that they do not import meat slaughtered according to methods that we have banned in Denmark and, on that basis, perhaps reconsider whether labelling of halal-slaughtered foods was not a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126151714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126151716	Well, as new Minister for Food, I am delighted that Mrs Pernille Vermund and New Citizens are concerned with animal welfare. It makes me really happy. We have just had two other animal welfare resolutions in focus, and it was up to us several times that we are working within the European Union to improve labelling arrangements so that we can see whether animal welfare is in order or not. Is it the case that there are, for example, halal-slaughter meat in other countries where animal welfare is not in order, but then it would be an incredibly good idea for consumers to see it and to say that I am not in favour; I do not want to be involved in the abuse of animals, so I choose from that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126151757	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126151759	I assume that the Minister for Food and Food is on the goal of what is stated on the Danish Food and Agriculture Authority's website, so that we do not again have a governing body that does one thing and a minister who thinks otherwise. Therefore, I must take it for good goods when the Danish Food Authority writes on its website that we are actually importing meat from countries that are slaughtering by methods which are currently banned in Denmark, without us as consumers in Denmark seeing that they have been slaughtered by these methods and thus opting out of them. So this is just an appeal: could the Minister for Food not consider whether we in Denmark too could perhaps take the step further and ensure that as consumers we do not support this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126151839	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126151840	What I tried to refer to in my reply before was that we are working on establishing an EU labelling system, so that the same labelling system applies throughout the European Union, so that animal welfare is guaranteed. It is, of course, the case that there is free movement of goods within the European Union, which is why we cannot just make our own mark in Denmark and say that we are now excluding some goods from entering. This is something we need to make common in the European Union. However, I am concerned about animal welfare and I am very pleased to hear that Mrs Pernille Vermund is also concerned about animal welfare. So let us together lift this up so that we get an even better animal welfare mark within the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126151916	Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126151919	Thank you. I think there are a lot of Danes who would like to be able to opt out of halal products • some for animal welfare reasons. I myself have seen animals being halal-slaughtered in Afghanistan and the Middle East, and they slowly bleed to death by cutting their throats, and that is just not the same as more humane slaughter methods. Others feel that it is not necessary for an animal in a Christian country such as Denmark to be slaughtered for Islamic rituals. But I agree with the Minister. After all, we are part of common European agreements that say that such labelling should be agreed with other EU countries, at least as I understand it. So will the Minister go to Brussels and try to have a definite labelling of halal meat throughout the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126152003	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126152004	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth and the Conservative People's Party. It is true that some scratch-brush pictures are seen in connection with slaughter, and there I am just so delighted that years ago in Denmark we introduced the requirement that no matter what, animals must be drugged first. It was a Social Democratic government that introduced this. We have had animal welfare in focus for many years. I am proud to say that Denmark can put its back on that. We've got this animal welfare thing under control. Then there are places where it's not all right, and shall we take it up there? Yes, and it has also been part of the theme all day today that we, together with our European neighbouring countries, would like to work for a better EU label that has more focus on animal welfare. So that's a really good idea, and I'm glad to hear that too, sir. Marcus Knuth and the Conservative People's Party are pulling in that direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126152058	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126152059	Thank you. I just have two quick questions. I should just like to be very clear that this is also specifically a labelling of halal meat, in other words the ritual slaughter for which the Minister will be working. And in the meantime, if the Minister will be able to take some time in the European Union, and it is not certain that there is support for a voluntary scheme, as the Minister himself mentioned, for example. With the help of the FDA, who will help carry out the control? This could perhaps be a first step in the right direction here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126152126	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126152127	I would like to say two different things. My role as Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries is that of food safety, animal welfare and quality. There I would like to work for a common European label to promote animal welfare. I believe that as Minister for Food, I must stay away from starting to relate to religion, but I would like to focus on animal welfare. With regard to the voluntary scheme in Denmark, it was also part of my initial speech that you can feel it if you can prove that it meets these requirements, and it can be an excellent idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126152208	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, so we are now embarking on the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Stoklund from Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126152222	Thank you, President. The motion for a resolution calls for the introduction of a general rule on the information and labelling of meat using the method of slaughter. If many consumers want such labelling, food companies are already free to start branding their products. In a market economy such as the Danish market economy, the balance between consumer demand and the supply of businesses is, as you know, a good and effective mechanism, but the proposal envisages putting the market on a stand-by footing and introducing legislation instead. In Denmark, if we want to be part of the internal market and have access to export butter and meat to the rest of Europe, we do not have the opportunity to introduce a national requirement to label the method of slaughter used for meat. And the European market is of course important for both exports and jobs for the Danish economy. Social democracy cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126152319	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126152324	I just think that these are really weird explanations and that it should be completely impossible to introduce this, I simply do not believe in. So, of course, you will then be able to introduce it to Danish producers and say: Sweet friends, from now on you write in what way you do this • just like there are a lot of other rules. In the first place, it can be said that meat from abroad may not have to be labelled immediately, but in relation to Danish producers, who are subject to Danish legislation, it must be possible to do so. And it is not a question of mixing religion with slaughter methods. It is precisely an opportunity for the consumer to be able to choose the religious from the Islamic from. Because we now know that the money spent on halal certification is being spent on Islamic missions in our own country. Well, giving money to this is to stand carefully and dig your own grave. And you can understand that Danish consumers do not necessarily want to do so. So does the rapporteur not see that it must be possible and that it is morally right to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126152432	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126152434	No, I have to admit that I do not quite see it because nothing stands in the way of a Danish food company using this label from tomorrow. I think companies would do that if they could sense that there was a demand for it among consumers. However, we discussed a somewhat similar resolution a year ago. I made about the same speech... we probably all did that in here... and neither before nor since have I come across any popular demand for this kind of marking. That is why I think it seems a little unnatural to have to push that need forward when it is obviously not something that is in the population, and if it was in the population, companies could easily just make a mark and start using it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126152525	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126152526	Now I do not know where the rapporteur is, but where I go, I really do meet people who want these marks. After all, some people voluntarily do so already, and that has also increased their turnover, at least in some cases, as I am familiar with, for example. where Christmas ducks slaughtered by nonhalal methods were heavily wanted by consumers. And I think that is fine, but it is also clear that some people will be afraid that they will have reduced demand, precisely because there are Danes who have stuffed meat in their mouths and who do not want to support Islam; meat which is still halal-slaughtered. That is why we should make rules about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126152607	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126152609	Well, that's true, we'll probably come in different places too, and it's possible that if I got a little more in the Danish People's Party parliament group, which might be nice, I might have another impression. But that does not change the fact that I do not sense any popular demand for this type of labelling. I haven't gotten a single request about it. When we discussed it last time, it was the same way. And if it is true what Mrs Krarup says, that the companies that have used such labelling have seen an increase in demand, then it is quite obvious that more companies should start using it. Fortunately, there we have the market mechanism to regulate it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126152648	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126152650	Thank you. After all, it is the Saudi-funded Muslim World League, which is the only organisation that halalcertifies Danish chicken meat, and it is an organization that is both associated with women's oppression, with the death penalty and with the kidning of religious freedom with rather bestial methods. So every time you buy halal-certified poultry in Denmark, you contribute financially to the Muslim World League. I think that is quite relevant for a Danish consumer to know. If the rapporteur now says that it is not possible, and the Minister can understand that, because it requires the whole of the European Union to agree on this, then I have to ask: what was it that made it possible for the Fisheries Authority to make a mark for nature-friendly fishing that has just come after we have been fighting for this for many years? Well, what's the difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126152755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126152756	I must admit that I do not have very good conditions for answering that question. There I think that Mrs Pernille Vermund needs to put a committee question to the appropriate ministry in order to clarify why it could be done in the fisheries sector, which I know nothing about. Apart from that, Mrs Pernille Vermund is, as I am aware, aware of the functioning of the internal market. It is probably slightly different how we view the European Union. I believe that EU cooperation and the internal market are a huge gain for us, both economically in terms of exports and in terms of jobs at home, and there we have to accept some sort of standard within the rules that are now in force. If there is then a popular demand to introduce new labelling schemes, there is nothing to prevent any company from starting to label their meat in that way from tomorrow. When we were discussing this last time, I was aware that there was not really any demand for it, nor was there in the meantime, and I have not received a single request for it. So it has to be a question of the market finding a balance without this label because consumers do not want it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126152857	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126152859	So there is something bizarre about me discussing as a representative of one of the smallest parties in the Danish Parliament with a rapporteur from one of the largest parties in the Danish Parliament, and the fact that a rapporteur has been chosen today who, with all due respect, does not understand and knows what halal certification means in relation to the spread of Islam, which is usually the area of the rapporteur, but who also does not know that there is labelling, which has been invented in Denmark, and which is in the fisheries sector, which is what is otherwise the minister's area. So, with all due respect, could it not be an idea next time to ask with a rapporteur who can respond in just one of the two areas that are absolutely essential to what we are discussing today?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126152938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126152939	Yes, but now it is not every day that a simple rapporteur like me is going to debate with a party chairman in this Chamber. I am simply saying that if there was a popular demand for what Mrs Pernille Vermund wanted, it would probably have manifested itself in that there had been representations to us and that someone had written about it in the media or made it known in the media. And it probably also manifested itself in a demand for companies, and the companies could then have started to label their products in this way. But that demand has not really been there, and that is why we have not seen that development.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126153011	Thank you. Then there are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it's the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126153023	Thank you. I have tabled a number of resolutions on many occasions in the past, such as the one we are discussing today, and it is a question of getting the method of slaughter for cows on the packaging. The intentions behind this proposal are good and in the Left we are in favour of consumer information. However, a labelling system such as this will place more administrative burdens on businesses and increased costs on businesses, and we are not in favour of this in the Left. In addition, at this stage it is not possible to introduce Danish legislation, at least not at present, because it will require a change in EU legislation, as has already been shown in the debate. Then the question is which way to go, and we can debate that. In the Left, we call on food companies to introduce voluntary labelling schemes that give consumers a genuinely free choice so that those who want to opt out of halal meat can do so. Having said that, the most important thing for the Left is that animal welfare is in order. All animals slaughtered in Denmark, as we also know, are drugged as the first, so there is no difference, in terms of animal welfare, between slaughtering in one way or another. Animal welfare must be the most important aspect of everything else, and on this basis the Left cannot support the resolution before us.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126153149	Thank you. Then there is a comment from Mr. Marcus Knuth to Mr. Knuth. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126153158	I would really just like to thank the Left for also supporting the proposal made by the Minister to work towards a voluntary labelling scheme. This could be something that could be helped by the Food Safety Agency, I even believe that there is already a labelling for animal welfare, and in this way we could then take a first step towards something that has actually been established and something that the Minister could then promote in the EU and get more EU countries to back up. And I hope that we are many parties in this House who will support this: taking it as a natural step, as well as having a basis for what we would at least like to see as the next step, a proper labelling system.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126153236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126153237	Thank you. Well, volunteering is a good thing, we like that in the Left, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126153242	Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126153247	Thank you for working towards a voluntary scheme. It's better than nothing, of course. However, I am just surprised that the rapporteur is only so concerned about animal welfare when you have this motion for a resolution in the Chamber. There was a time when the Left was a party that was interested in high school, that spirit and education should be spread among all. Is the Left in favour of Islamic mission today? Is the Left in favour of Denmark becoming more and more Muslim? And do you not even want to debate this in this Chamber when what is being problematized is that ordinary consumers are going to support Islamic missions through their meat consumption? Does the Left care about that? Does the Left care whether Denmark is Christian or Muslim?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126153333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126153336	No, we're not. Denmark is a Christian country, and you could say anything in relation to the constitution, and the questioner knows all about that. No, we don't care about that. But I would also like to point out that we will have to debate how to move forward from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126153352	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126153354	But I just think that the Left should get their hands out of their pockets and work to ensure that there is such a labelling system, possibly initially voluntary. I would very much like it to just become mandatory for everyone, because it makes no sense to ask Danish Christians or cultural Christian consumers to support Islamic missions and then to let it take place under the guise of market forces. It is simply immoral and, if you were interested in maintaining Denmark as a Danish country, you should, of course, work to avoid that situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126153437	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126153439	Denmark is a Christian country, it must continue to be, and we must maintain, consolidate and reinforce it, and what else good things can be said in that direction. Then it is also marked earlier in the debate by other rapporteurs and also in previous debates that what is before us cannot be implemented at the moment, if I may say so. Then the author's party is also represented in the European Union, and that is where we could try to take the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126153504	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126153507	Thank you. Does the Left believe that it is important for consumers to have the opportunity to make free choices on an informed basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126153516	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126153518	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126153522	If the Left believes that it is important for consumers to make free choices on an enlightened basis, then it is remarkable that one does not want to support the labelling of foods, which can be imported foods which have been slaughtered using methods that are not even legal in Denmark, and can be foods that are halal certified and thus contribute to the spread of Islam and Islamic values when buying them? Can the rapporteur not see that there is a lack of rigour in the desire to give consumers freedom of choice and information and then the rejection of labelling of these foods?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126153608	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126153609	We can see many dilemmas and skewed angles, and whatever else we can call it, all of this. We have clearly marked and I think we are very much in agreement with the New Citizens' Party too that Denmark is a Christian country, and that we must maintain and do everything we can to preserve it. Then there are also some current rules, including EU rules and so on, as has already emerged from the debate, and you can then try to get them up in the various places and then push things forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126153635	Then there are no further brief comments inscribed to Mr. Erling Bonnesen. We thank the rapporteur of the Left. And then it's sir. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126153658	Thank you for the floor, President. When I was preparing for this debate, I looked at the knowledge of Agriculture & Food in this area and they have on their website a fairly clear answer to the commonly misunderstood questions in this debate, for example the question: Does the animal suffer from halal slaughter? And it is very clear: No, the animal does not, for the animal is completely drugged prior to killing. The effectiveness of the stunning shall be verified, as in the case of a traditional slaughter. The animal will not be killed until it is fully drugged. Another question that could be raised is: does halal slaughter affect the quality of the meat? Here too, Agriculture & Food clearly states: No, there is no difference in quality between traditionally slaughtered beef and beef slaughtered after religious rituals, such as halal slaughter or kosher slaughter. So can we raise the question: does halal slaughter have an impact on food safety? Nor has it, because the hygiene rules apply to all slaughterhouses, regardless of the slaughter method used. Let me just say that if there was such a demand for the proposed labelling system as the proposers propose here, then I and the Radical Left think that the free market forces would make such a mark of themselves. For they are free to do so today; they can do so voluntarily. Against this background, then, the Radical Left does not see a need for the labelling of meat by slaughter method and sees it as unnecessary bureaucracy for business.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126153854	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126153858	Thank you. Does the rapporteur, and does the Radical Left believe that it is reasonable for us as consumers in Denmark to risk buying food which has been slaughtered by slaughter methods which are so expensively wrong that we in Denmark have decided to legislate against it? These are methods which we say we simply cannot accept in Denmark. It's not expensively safe. As consumers, we do not want to be involved in financing this kind of thing, and as a country we do not want to be the target of this kind of thing. Does the rapporteur think that it is right that we should then be able to import such food without consumers being made aware that there is in fact something here that would not be legal in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126153947	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126153949	I am confident that when Agriculture & Food points out that the animal does not suffer by halal slaughter, that is what applies. So I have full confidence in that being done in a proper way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126154000	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126154001	That is very fine, and I also have full confidence in Agriculture & Food. I should also have full confidence in the Food Authority, and I actually usually do, and on that basis I have to say that the Food Authority itself informs us that we import food, we import meat from countries in the European Union which slaughter according to these halal methods and without stunning prior to slaughter. So that is not what is going on in Denmark; that is what is going on in the EU countries from which we import meat, and that meat lies in the cooling disc in Denmark, and we as consumers do not have an honest chance of opting out. Does the rapporteur not think that something is wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126154046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126154047	If it had been a very widespread problem, I am sure that Agriculture & Food and others had pointed it out, but since that is not the case, I have full confidence in both the FDA and other organisations that point out that this is not a major challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126154104	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126154106	Unlike the Social Democrat rapporteur and probably also the Radical Left rapporteur, I am in circles where people are really, really angry that they cannot know what kind of meat they are buying. You can only do that with those who voluntarily feel it. Does the rapporteur not think it strange that we should not be fully informed about the goods we buy? Is there anything in Radical Left DNA that goes against people getting knowledge and being more educated and that there is greater transparency? I think it is a strange argument to make on the part of the Radical Left. As far as I understand, it is precisely the wish that people should be more enlightened and more educated and make more conscious choices. So what exactly does it mean that we must not be told that any meat has been slaughtered by means of methods which, by means of this slaughter method, support Islamic congregations in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126154210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126154211	The questioner's premise is basically wrong. For the Radical Left, of course, we are in favour of free and informed choices, and that is why, if it is very important for someone, what method of slaughter is being used, then you can ask your local butcher or where you are now buying: what has the slaughter method been? And then you can make your choice after that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126154234	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126154235	Well, that's a grotesque argument, isn't it? Because you could also call the producer and ask what the fat content is, what the ingredients are and whether there is something dangerous for your health and something like that. This is not how we do it in Denmark. In other words, that information is made available on the product. It should not be so hasty to be enlightened, so I have to admit that that argument is not connected. So it sounds as if one simply does not want to get information into this area, that is to say one neglects that it is important for the consumer whether one supports a particular ideology or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126154317	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126154318	I think it is a pity if the questioner does not dare to ask his local butcher whether it has been slaughtered according to a particular method of slaughter. It is completely free to do so. I often ask my butcher about everything else, what's good right now, or what you can recommend here for Christmas or whatever it might be. So having a dialogue with your butcher, I really think that is basically Danish and really nice, so that in a community we talk to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126154344	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126154348	Thank you. I feel that we are seeing a bit of a break-up here in the Folketing, as I hear a number of parties who actually say that they can support a voluntary scheme, such as the one we are discussing here. could be taken care of by the FDA, so that it is not just, let us say, the individual butcher who says what is halal, but that you can actually read it on the packaging of the product. That would, of course, be a good first step towards what we Conservatives would like to see, which is the introduction of a labelling system throughout the European Union. Is this something in which the Radical Left would also support us?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126154418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126154420	I had actually hoped and wished that Conservatives, as a bourgeois-liberal party, would know that there are free market forces, and I have to say that if there was such a demand for such a labelling system as is being proposed here, then it is in fact the free market forces and producers who are free to make such labelling. There is nothing to prevent that from happening today, and if there is a greater need for it, which seems to be not, then of course you are very welcome to discuss it in relevant forums.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126154452	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126154453	I would now like to say that I also experience many Danes writing to me saying: why can we not have a labelling system with this? Some do so because they have animal ethical concerns and others because they have more religious and cultural concerns, and I think it would be good if Denmark were to take the lead in setting up a genuine voluntary scheme, but based on control, for example. from the Danish Food Safety Authority, which could then form the basis for proper labelling.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126154521	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126154523	Personally, I haven't gotten a single e-mail that this was supposed to be a challenge. So the questioner is very welcome to forward me some of the e-mails he gets about it. Then I'd be happy to take a closer look. But it has to be clear that there does not seem to be a need for it. There seems to be little demand for it, otherwise companies would do so today. They have full opportunity to do so if it was something that would benefit their turnover.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126154550	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. No one else has signed up for the Radical Left rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Halime Oguz of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126154607	Thank you. The Danish People's Party has tabled a motion for a resolution aimed at the government drawing up a general rule on the labelling of meat by means of a method of slaughter, and that applies to all meat slaughtered in Denmark, as I understand it. At SF we do not, in principle, object to increasing consumer information so that consumers are informed of the circumstances under which certain foods come into being. In this way it is ultimately up to consumers themselves to choose the product they think is most appropriate. However, there are only some rules at EU level which make it impossible for us in Denmark to introduce a national requirement for the labelling of the method of slaughter used for meat, and this makes the motion for a resolution a little problematic in advance. In this context, however, we should not forget the issue of animal welfare, as several of the rapporteurs have said, and in this respect, it is of course important for me to point out that in Denmark there is no difference, in terms of animal welfare, between conventional slaughter and religious slaughter. This is because the Danish rules in any case require prior stunning of an animal regardless of the method of slaughter. On the other hand, we do not know whether the meat we import will be slaughtered according to similar animal-ethical methods. I would therefore like us to look at whether, if it turns out that we are going to continue working on this proposal, we are going to look at whether, for example, we are going to continue working on this proposal. in any way could distinguish between the various forms of slaughter. As I have said, halal slaughter with stunning is not necessarily more barbaric than all kinds of other forms of slaughter. On the other hand, halal slaughter without anesthetic is really, really cruel. I understand that consumers would like to have the option of opting out. The SF cannot vote in favour of the proposal as it stands, but we would very much like to look at how we can make demands on more animal ethics in relation to the meat imported from other countries. And how do I get the microphone up? I just thought it was so low. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126154839	No one has asked for a brief comment on Mrs Halime Oguz, but at least the microphone has been raised to Mr Oguz's height. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126154857	Thanks for the adjustment! After all, this is a motion for a resolution on the introduction of a labelling system for halal-certified meat, and it is a proposal that the Folketing instructs the government to table a legislative proposal that both imported and home-produced halal-meat should in future be clearly labelled. Yes, and what is going on in Denmark? Well, it is that we have a large chicken production, where the majority are slaughtered in some rather large slaughterhouses, where the chickens come in and are hung up in the hind legs, and then they come to a water bath in which there is electricity, and then they are sedated in the water bath, after which the chickens get their throats cut. Then there is a tape recorder that is in the background where it is said that Allah is great or what is being said. And it is almost all chickens for fattening in Denmark that are handled in this way. So if you buy an industrial chicken like that, it's halal-slaughtered. And what happens to the cattle? Yeah, they get sedated at the slaughterhouse with a bolt gun before they get hung up in their hind legs and slit their throats so they bleed to death. It's kind of a practice. It is a Danish practice to sedate animals before they are killed. And the same goes for the pigs, who come into a large slaughterhouse, where they come into a box that runs into a basement where there is CO2 There is not so much demand for halal-slapped pig, so I don't think there's a tape recorder standing in the background playing anything. So I don't think it's fair that this proposal, just as it advocates that there should be a problem with Danish halal-slaughter meat in relation to animals not being sedated before they are slaughtered. It is certainly true that there may be some imported meat in which it cannot be said with certainty whether the animals have been drugged before they have been slaughtered. And I can see there that it would be good to have a labelling system which drew attention to it. However, I do not really see the need for a very visible mark to be put on all chickens for fattening. I think there is something about animal welfare that should instead be given more attention. So I really think that if you want something special with this motion for a resolution in relation to imported meat, that is what you should have written a little more clearly too if you think that those who then certify some halal-slaughter meat in Denmark should not be paid for it or should not get a higher amount for it than that which is their cost of it. So if that was what you wanted, I think you should have been more precise, because why should we have some stamp on halal slaughter on a Danish chicken for fattening? I don't think that's what should be focused on. I think it is far more important to focus on what animal welfare is in agricultural production than such a halal mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126155158	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126155201	However, does the rapporteur not think it is at all interesting or important to know that the rapporteur himself probably supports on a daily basis that money is being given to the Islamic mission in Denmark? Because that's what you do. In other words, those who check that the right Islamic forms are being said in connection with the slaughter process score a prize that is quite nice, and they can then use it to support mosques, as has been done in Denmark for a long time. Does the rapporteur not find it strange that Danish consumers, without knowing it in this way, should be lured into supporting an ideology or a religion which they are absolutely not in favour of? Why don't we need information on that area?
ParlaMint-DK_20201126155307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126155308	With regard to whether I support something Islamic on a daily basis, I would like to say that I strongly reject it, because that is not the case at all. I've been a vegetarian for almost 40 years. I do not support any purchases of halal meat, so the rapporteur must go further. With regard to how much support is being given, was it not what the proposers should have written in their proposals, i.e. if it is such that it is quite an unreasonable amount, with which some religious activities can be supported through some levy on chicken meat in Denmark? I am not aware of how many ears it is, so I cannot stand and be really outraged by it. I guess if it was that way up in a penny, I might think it was weird that it was so big. So I actually think it would be nice to unfold the amount of money involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126155401	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126155403	I think the rapporteur's argument that he himself is a vegetarian, so it doesn't matter to him, is a little poor to use when you stand on the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament, because here we are talking about the whole population of Denmark, and the rapporteur is therefore opposed to the whole population of Denmark being made aware of whether they involuntarily support Islamic mission. Kristeligt Dagblad has uncovered this area, and it's actually not that violent amount. Looks like it's only 1-2 million. kr. a year, which these organisations responsible for halal certification get, but in the past they have channeled the money into the support of Danish mosques and do so for part of the amount probably still away. But that is more the principle in it, i.e. that a method of slaughter supports a particular ideology and that, as a consumer, it cannot be disclosed. That's where I think the problem is. We should be told about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126155459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126155500	Now it was the rapporteur who brought my person into this question by insinuating that I supported it through my purchases, that is to say that I had to support something Islamic there, and then I thought it was appropriate to say that this is not the case, because it is not. I do not understand why the proposers have not written these amounts in the proposal, because then one might ask: how big is the problem we have to deal with here? Surely there is also some cost to there having to be some tape recorder that is standing and running all the time. Well, I have no idea what the cost is to have such a machine standing. That's probably pretty small expenses.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126155536	Thank you to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Søren Egge Rasmussen. And then we're gonna invite mr. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party here on the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126155550	Thank you, sir. President. We Conservatives are very pleased that the Danish People's Party has made this proposal. We basically support the fact that consumers must have as much information as possible about the food they have the opportunity to buy in this country, regardless of whether it is organic or whether it is free-range animals or whatever it is that consumers are looking for. As I said earlier in my question, I understand that there are some Danes who want to opt out of halal products. For some it is because of the slaughter method. I have seen animals slaughtered by the halal method in Afghanistan myself. I would say that I respect the tradition of each country, but I do not think this is a Danish tradition, so I understand that some people feel that way. That is another way of slaughtering than what is necessarily necessary. For others, it is the religious part you do not like, that is, that animals in Denmark are slaughtered after Muslim rituals, since it is a Christian country. And we all have different preferences in life, so I respect that there are some who, for one reason or another, want to know more about how the animal has been slaughtered. However, as has also been discussed here today, Denmark is part of a community where we say that if there is to be some kind of labelling, then it must be done jointly with other EU countries. In fact, we think this is a positive thing, because if it is the case that you want something that increases consumer information, then it is only good that it happens in all countries and not only in one country. That is why I think that the discussion we have had today has been very interesting, including the discussion I have had with some of the rapporteurs before today's debate. First, it can be promoted here in the European Union. Now we know that these things can take more than a few days. In the meantime there are a great many parties, apart from the Radical Left and I know the Enhedslisten, who have been on the platform and have said that they would like to support a voluntary scheme in Denmark. There are already voluntary schemes in Denmark for animal welfare, which the Danish Food Safety Authority is in charge of regulating, and I actually think that could be a very, very good and fine first step. And if you then have a food-regulated voluntary scheme to run, perhaps it could be the basis for something you could build on. We Conservatives are at the moment. with the committee and with other parties by examining how best to proceed from this, in relation to hopefully being able to gather support for a majority of parties here in the Folketing, including, hopefully, also the Social Democracy and the Left, which have proved positive in promoting such a system. And when it is ready, we will deal with the work that has been completed in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126155835	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. I should just like to look down at Mrs Pernille Vermund, who had signed in but did not wish to speak. It's fine. No one has asked to make any questions or comments to Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth. And then it is Mrs Pernille Vermund as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126155906	Thank you for the floor, President. In a few weeks' time, we will be dealing with two of the new citizens' motions for resolutions. One requires the government to ensure that, in future, both imported and home-produced halal meat must be clearly labelled. The second is a proposal to ban the use of halal-certified meat in public institutions. When I mention this today, it is because the proposal from the DF that we are debating is close to our proposal and is a step in the right direction. The comments on this motion for a resolution state that the proposal is about allowing the Danes to opt out of meat slaughtered according to the halal method and to preserve Danish culture and Danish slaughter methods. In New Citizens we agree with those remarks. We want both to preserve Danish culture and to ensure the consumer's free choice. No Danes should inadvertently contribute to the spread of Islam through taxes to Islamic organisations. That is why we say quite clearly that halal-certified goods should not be bought for Danes' tax dollars and served in the public sector in hospitals, nursing homes and in day-care establishments, and at the same time we want a general labelling system for halal products, which should ensure full transparency, so that the consumer is informed that the meat is halal-slaughtered and that producers have paid a fee for halal certification of the meat. Unfortunately, there is a clear tendency for Danish companies to increasingly produce halal-certified meat for export markets. Agriculture & Food estimates that around 98 per cent. of chicken meat produced in Denmark is halal-slaughtered and that the export of halal-slaughtered Danish beef is increasing. Without clear labelling of meat, the consumer may unintentionally contribute to increasing the demand for halal products, as well as to supporting Islamist organisations and the spread of Islam. Of course, as a consumer, you should be informed that you support when or if you buy halal-certified goods. Furthermore, without clear labelling on the packaging, Danish consumers risk inadvertently buying meat slaughtered in a ritual manner without stunning, since traditional halal slaughter means that the animal must not have been sedated prior to slaughter. In Denmark and Sweden, halal slaughter without stunning is prohibited, but the Danish Food Authority informs on its website that slaughter without stunning takes place in some EU countries and that imports of this meat into Denmark are allowed and it is not labelled today. Danish consumers are therefore not sufficiently informed today whether the meat products that we put in our shopping basket and buy with hopefully good conscience can actually be bought with the good conscience we should be able to have as Danes, because we in Denmark have banned slaughter without stunning. And we cannot be sure that this has happened under proper conditions for animals. Therefore, we in New Citizens believe that we in Denmark should have a label that clearly and on the front of the product of both domestic and imported goods informs whether meat has been halal certified, whether a tax has been paid on the product to an Islamic organisation, and whether the slaughter of the halal meat has been carried out with or without prior stunning. As I said at the outset, this proposal is a step in the right direction. This takes into account part of it, and I can also read in the comments why it is not the full package that is included. So this is not an attempt to downgrade the proposal, but an acknowledgement that the main text of the proposal does not have everything with it for various reasons. And, although we obviously lack the part about halal certification and the tax on Islamic organisations and the spread of Islam, we naturally support the proposal as it stands. I am also pleased that during today's debate I have been able to hear all the questions from Mrs Marie Krarup, DF, that the halal certification and the contribution to the Islamic organisations are an essential part of the reason why this proposal is being put forward. We also hope, of course, that the proposers and other parties will support the two motions for resolutions which come from the new citizens in December in the Committee on Food and Agriculture and in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. So, with those words of support for the proposal, and thanks to DF for putting it forward. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126160411	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marie Krarup who is the rapporteur for the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126160429	Thank you for the floor. We in the Danish People's Party have long wanted meat that is halal-slaughtered to be labelled so that consumers have the opportunity to choose the meat on or off. As it is today, it is voluntary for the producer to label the meat and thus the consumer cannot be sure to know what kind of meat he buys. Of course, the fact that something is halal-slaughtered does not affect the quality of the meat, but there may be other reasons why you do not want to buy halal-slaughtered meat. One can be against the slaughter method in general because of animal welfare, or one can be against supporting the Islamic organisations that implement and guarantee the religious part of the halal-slaughter process. Therefore, it really seems strange that one cannot be sure to find information on the product itself about how it is produced. In the Danish People's Party we want Danish culture to be the leader in Denmark. We do not want foreign religious practices to be promoted above others, and we do not want Danish consumers to support Islamic institutions and mosques without their own knowledge. Because that's what you do when you buy halal-slaughter meat. Until recently, Muslim World League, which has close ties with Saudi Arabia, and the Islamic Cultural Centre, has issued halal certificates and received payment from the producers. Today it is an imam from the Islamic Trocenter as well as Halal Quality Control that has taken over the certification, which brings 1 to 2 million Danish kroner a year, and which probably goes to support Danish mosques. I have the information on this from some articles in Kristeligt Dagblad that have been interested in the area. I and many other consumers do not want to support such a circus. If I wanted to support Islamic institutions, I could send them some money myself. I do not want to support Islam through my meat consumption. That is why, of course, I want an opportunity to choose the halal-produced meat from and choose products and producers who do not use halal certification and halal methods. That's not too much to ask. That is why we have tabled the motion for a resolution, and this is not the first time we have tabled it. We have done so several times, and I can hear from the debate here that we will probably do so again. However, I am glad that some people have, after all, supported the creation of a voluntary labelling system. This could be the first step, and then the next step could be for our minister in this area to support its extension to the whole area of the European Union. What surprises me a little in this debate is that there is no one but the Danish People's Party and the New Citizens' Party who has taken an interest in the fact that through their consumption they will support a certain ideology. I believe that most parties would have been interested in it if there were some very common standard products that, through their production process, supported Jehovah's Witnesses or the Inner Mission or political groupings. Then I think it would have been said that people should know when they buy these products. However, when it comes to supporting Islam, most parties are obviously not interested, and I am surprised when most parties are actually in favour of information in a large number of areas. So in this area, you do not want to have a compulsory information campaign or a labelling system. I think that's really weird. However, I think it is positive that there are several parties that will support a voluntary scheme, and of course we will support this as a first step. In addition, I would just like to thank you for the support from New Citizens and the somewhat valiant support from the Conservative People's Party. It is, after all, better than nothing. So thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126160930	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors, Mrs Krarup. Then no one else has asked for the floor. In accordance with agreement and presentation to the Secretary-General, I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. However, since Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen has proposed that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food, there are now two proposals for referral to committee, and then a vote has to be taken. I shall have this vote taken in the sitting on Tuesday, 1 December 2020. So there will be a vote on Tuesday on which committee the proposal should be referred to.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126161101	The debate is open. Sir. Orla Sea of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126161111	Thank you. As the President was mentioned, this is about amending the law on financial activities, the law on the restructuring and winding-up of certain financial undertakings and the law on capital markets and the repeal of the law on financial stability. Those of us who experienced the financial crisis in the period 2007-2009 have painful experiences from this. Society was plunged into economic uncertainty and there were citizens who suffered stomach pain as a result of the uncertainty that was allowed to develop and that became as pervasive as it was. From this point of view, we in the Social Democrats believe that this draft law is extremely well put forward with its aim of strengthening financial stability and increasing the resilience of financial companies to future financial crises across the European Union. The draft law implements a number of amendments aimed at strengthening the capital resilience of credit institutions, thereby increasing financial stability, while allowing institutions to increase credit distribution, growth and employment in society. To achieve this, a number of tools are being used. These are tools addressing risks arising from developments in the economy in general, including requirements relating to leverage ratio, stable financing and market risk. In addition, the draft law ensures that adequate effective action can be taken against a failing financial undertaking or a financial undertaking which appears to be in need. The overall objective is to ensure the continuity of the company's critical financial and economic functions while minimising the impact of the company's collapse on the economy and the financial system. Finally, there is a requirement for credit institutions to be upholsteryed in order to withstand losses and to ensure that they can re-establish their own funds in a crisis situation. Now it would be beautiful if this flower had only grown in the Danish garden, but fortunately the bill has its roots in EU regulations, and because Denmark has been at the forefront of making absolutely necessary demands on the financial sector, Danish financial institutions will experience a potential to reduce costs. This is done by the fact that the EU rules are, as it were, a consequence of a common set of rules, which means that those who have been less restrictive are given a potential competitive advantage by Danish institutions. We welcome that too. So the Social Democratic Party supports the L 109 and is happy to take part in the committee's deliberations on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126161425	Thank you, sir. Orla Sea. No one has asked to speak in this speech. So we need to move on in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126161435	Thank you for the floor. This is a very comprehensive legislative proposal that we are now considering. The 501 page fills the bill and I will now review the 29 sub-items of the bill in detail, but that probably does not allow the speaking time. I believe, moreover, that such a review could be used for a podcast for the very effective treatment of people with difficulty sleeping. Instead, I would like to take a slightly overall approach and have a few concrete impact points. The major legislative proposal translates into two EU directives: the so-called BRRD II, which deals with the ability of financial companies to cope with losses and recapitalisation capacity, and which is also called the Crisis Management Directive. The second is CRD V, which includes: is concerned with remuneration and supervisory and capital conservation measures aimed at strengthening the resilience of credit institutions. That is also what is called the Capital Requirements Directive. One of the important things in this bill is for the Left, how we in Denmark choose to implement the directives, because there is a little room to decide how to do it nationally as long as you comply with the directive. There is room for diversity within certain limits. There, then, is the clear position of the Left that we should have the starting point of implementing at least common EU rules so that we do not make additional demands on Danish companies, because this could potentially weaken the competitiveness of companies, and thus we risk that it will cost Danish jobs. Is there over-implementation in this bill? I have to admit, there actually is. Some of this follows a number of the agreements reached in the financial conciliation area. I believe that it is both in 2010, 2012 and 2013 in relation to pay policy in the financial sector, and that means that we are slightly different from what we could do, but we have politically agreed on that. There is also another place where we in Denmark, in relation to the rules that must apply to the SIFI institutions, have chosen to say that this applies to all of them, and not only to 30%, as the directive allows. It also ensures that SIFI institutions are treated in a uniform manner. In one area in particular, we in the Left in the financial conciliation circle have pressed for a relaxation in the proposal submitted for consultation. It is not because it is very simple to explain, and I must be the first to admit it, but let me try. In order to ensure that no simple creditors, i.e. to a large extent if a bank goes bankrupt, suffer some losses, a large number of capital requirements are now being imposed so that there is a robustness of the individual institutions and banks, so that, if things go wrong, there is capital to cover the claims of the simple creditors. One of the requirements, which is NEP requirements, i.e. depreciable liabilities, is a so-called subordination. It is a very mouthful word that I have lived in happy ignorance of for many years, especially until the process of this bill really began, and it became quite central. The directive makes it possible for the sub-ordination to take place on an individual, concrete basis, and not as we have done up to now, namely that it should be maximum. In fact, we are very pleased on the part of the Left that the bill has been amended in the conciliation circle so that it becomes an individual, concrete assessment. This means, in fact, a relaxation of the requirement for financial companies in Denmark. And as Dagbladet Børsen writes today, it is the biggest relaxation for banks in Denmark for 15 years. For it is a Danish special requirement which gives the financial extra cost of funding, i.e. the cost of providing the necessary capital to bear the loss. It is therefore extra costs which banks in other EU countries do not have, and it is the case that when we make additional demands on the financial sector, it pushes up prices for Danish customers and Danish companies. Now we go the other way and relieve some costs. This, of course, has the consequence that it is positively understood in this way that everything else equals will mean lower prices for customers and companies. This is exactly the opposite of the funding that the government has made in relation to the so-called Arnepension, where there is a billion bill that threatens Danish customers companies. Finally, I and the Left are also pleased that for the so-called debt buffer requirement there remains an exception for Danish mortgage credit institutions. We must safeguard the Danish mortgage model, and we do so with the chosen model. All in all, it is a heavy and complicated legislative proposal, but I think that there is a sensible balance that ensures both a robust financial sector in Denmark, but which also removes additional costs in the hundreds of millions of kroner class compared to a Danish special rule. So the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126161952	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party in the rapporteur's series. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126162006	Thank you, sir. President. After all, the draft law that we are discussing now is a legislative proposal which brings about changes in a number of Danish financial laws. It is the law on financial activities and the law on the restructuring and winding-up of certain financial undertakings, and it is the law on capital markets, and then it is the repeal of the law on financial stability. Basically, this is about credibility. It is about credibility in relation to the financial institutions, the financial companies that are in Denmark, for example, but also in other European countries. And history has shown that, through the financial crisis back from 2008 until now in general, there was a significantly higher credibility of the Danish financial institutions than there was on average with the EU-based institutions. This was reflected in the fact that when the financial crisis ravaged, many chose to send their money in Helle here in Denmark. It was a place where, in any case, it would be better to see that the money did not turn into more money than it turned into less money. That was quite common sense, and it also meant, if you look in the crystal ball and look back and look at history, that you can actually see that Denmark was a place where you were able to get through the financial crisis fairly effortlessly and without large interest rate increases etc. In fact, it was not so bad, and it also helped that many of the Danish companies came relatively well and healthy through the difficult years. In view of this situation, it was obvious to say that if we were to get something good out of European cooperation, perhaps it was to ensure that on average some higher bars were also put on what it would be for some requirements to be made in order to be prepared to withstand these financial crises. Well, that's kind of the bottom line. in the Crisis Management Directive, to which the rapporteur also referred, and not least in the Capital Requirements Directive. In other words, we are now, hopefully, able to look forward to other countries' financial institutions coming up to some level with the Danishs and that there may generally be an increase in credibility and strength to be able to go through any financial crises. It has something to do with stability, and it has something to do with being safe and in good condition when it comes to implementing and attracting investment in individual countries. The draft law here makes it clear that, in general, there must be greater requirements for financial upholstery. In general, there must be greater resilience, while at the same time considering with the bill that different financial institutions will be better able to support credit dissemination and also the whole area of growth and employment. What you did in the old days, when you had to fight corruption, was that you used the newspaper follow the money. After all, it has proved to be very good in terms of combating corruption, and it is actually about the same premise that can be used in terms of international currency demand and so on. It is also to follow where the money goes. I guess it's not the money that doesn't stand the light of day, but the healthy business. There you can also follow the flow of money, and they typically go when there are international crises, where you get the best and most credible handling of currency issues. One of the things you do is that you do it. in Denmark, and therefore, as I said, it has also been shown that Denmark was able to get through the crises in a good way. In fact, even now that there has been a corona crisis, we have seen that financing real estate in Denmark has actually become cheaper. We are down to almost minus interest rates, and the biggest problem the Danes have at the moment is that they have to pay interest on having money to stand in the bank, I would have said, rather than getting interest. Some may call it a luxury problem, but it is after all a picture that these are new times. The changes in this bill are also some that mean that you get these so-called macropotential tools better prepared. These are tools addressing risks arising from developments and trends in the overall economy. It has something to do with leverage of funds and stable financing and market risk. These are things that at least take up a lot for investors. So the Danish People's Party is generally positive about this. Now speaking time has passed, but I would also like to remember that we have also supported the introduction of the two directives into the European Union. We have a number of questions which we will of course have clarified, but we are largely positive about the Minister's bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126162530	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. Then it is Mrs Katrine Robsøe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126162542	Thank you. I'll be a little brief, I guess. The draft law here contains such two major parts: rules on capital requirements and then crisis management. It aims to strengthen financial stability and increase the resilience of financial undertakings to future financial crises. The bill here implements the latest revision of the EU Capital Requirements Directive, CRD V, while implementing the new Crisis Management Directive, BRRD II. It is important that we ensure that Danish banks are stable to cope with financial fluctuations, and if they are to be wound up, it must of course be done properly and without losses from customers. After all, we have had this draft law and the directives discussed among the business rapporteurs in the past, and I am confident that with this bill we have found a very good solution. In this respect, I would like to thank Mr Vredeling in particular. Torsten Schack Pedersen, for his knowledge in this area, I'm pretty sure that at any rate has been of benefit to the bill here. Radicals support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126162656	Thank you to Mrs Katrine Robsøe. Then it's SF, and it's Mrs. Ina Strejer-Schmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126162704	Thank you. Unfortunately, the SF rapporteur in this area is not able to be here, and that is why I read her speech: a task that must not fall back into the memory book of us politicians is the necessary regulation of the financial sector to ensure financial stability. It is so essential that we continue to regulate the financial sector so that we never again face a similar crisis as the 2008 financial crisis. Implementation of these EU directives in Danish legislation ensures that we continue to keep in line with the European countries, with which we often compare ourselves. As a society, it is essential that we are prepared if the Danish banks, especially the large ones, are to be in financial trouble. As the opening remarks on the draft law show, it is precisely a prerequisite for healthy and stable growth that a well-designed regulation of the financial sector is provided. Therefore, it is not only necessary, but also responsible, that the banks themselves should absorb a loss to a large extent if they become in need. In fact, it is also about the customers. There must never be the same uncertainty about something as fundamental as banking; customers must have security for their finances. Therefore, SF does not give much for the arguments from the financial sector that the draft law should be a major disadvantage to Danish business. The fact is that in the important European Community of which we are a part, it is really obvious that we should adopt legislation together to ensure financial stability. The banks will then be given greater security for their investments. After all, it is a financial gain for the banks that the international market can see that they are well run and well upholstered. Therefore, these rules will not have the huge distorting effect of implementing within the framework of the directive, as we are doing here. That is why the SF is voting in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126162856	Thank you to Mrs Ina Strjer-Schmidt. Then it should have been Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, but she's not here. So instead it is Mrs Mona Juul of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126162910	Thank you, sir. President, and thank you for the floor. I would just like to stress briefly that there are many good ideas and values in strengthening the country's financial stability, increasing opposition to possible future crises and also doing so via demands on the financial sector of course. It is about the good old word robustness, about using more tools to assess risks and about making demands, for example. leverage, stable financing and market risk. And it is about being able to intervene effectively, ensuring stability and minimising the risk to the economy and the financial system, and about requirements to absorb losses and re-establish capital adequacy in a crisis. There's been some work on the bill before today. I don't want to hide that. Indeed, it has been important to avoid too much over-implementation, so that we are not inferior to, for example. Sweden and Norway, and it has been important to ensure individual assessment of each institute. For higher subordination requirements should only be used if absolutely necessary. This has been achieved with constructive cooperation, and that is why Conservatives are voting in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126163009	Thank you to Mrs Mona Juul. And then, sir... Lars Boje Mathiesen with his usual sense of timing came flying into the Chamber at this very moment, so I can give him the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126163020	Thank you very much. I can say that we in New Citizens are not usually the big supporters of what comes from the European Union. But sometimes even blind hen can find grain, and this may not be the worst thing we've seen from there. Although it is a proper pile and I would like to say that I have not read all 501 pages, but I have at least got the most important things of it, it is not so bad when it comes down from the European Union. We have a number of questions that we send in committee, but basically we see this as a positive thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126163047	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, and not Mr. Boje Mathiesen. Lars Bojesen Lars Boje Mathisen earlier in the day. There is Mrs Victoria Velasquez, and then we can have Enhedslisten included in the rapporteur's list.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126163107	The President knows how it is with the European Committee sometimes. We have consultations in the Committee on European Affairs at the same time; it is a little difficult to achieve everything. First of all, I would like to say that I understand the dilemma faced by the state when it comes to the balance between the resilience and stability of the financial sector on one side and that, on the other, one is afraid that the high Danish demands can be put in the prices for customers and companies. I think it is probably high time that we got some firm answers to how much they actually put themselves in prices and how much the crisis upholstery that is being made actually goes through in the Danish banks' product prices. Sometimes something might at least suggest that it is shareholders who benefit from the price increases that have taken place. In the Enhedslisten, we are sceptical about relaxing the requirements of the banks and, as we understand from the bill and the accompanying annexes, the new calculation principles will result in easing compared to today. Denmark has so far had more stringent requirements than other European countries. We have overimplemented the relevant EU directives, but this is what we think in the Enhedslisten on the basis and in agreement with the National Bank and the FSA is wise in these cases. The overriding concern must be a robust crisis response so that we do not end up where we, as taxpayers, must again save needy banks out of a mess. With this bill, we end up making up for the difference between the Danish measures and the rest of the EU. In other words, we run the risk that a slight tightening up of the directives underlying them will de facto mean that we are relaxing the high demands we have had so far. That is why we have a number of questions because, as I said, we need to find a balance, and we will look forward to those questions, the legal work and the work of the committee, in order to be able to make a final position on the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126163324	Thank you to Enhedslisten's Mrs Victoria Velasquez, and then it is the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126163334	Thank you for that, and thank you for the comments that have come to the draft law and for the largely positive feedback that has come from the rapporteurs and the parties. One can, of course, cut it very briefly and say that overall, this bill aims to strengthen financial stability and increase the resilience of financial companies to possible future financial crises. With the legislative proposal, we are implementing a number of changes that aim to strengthen the capital resilience of credit institutions, while, of course, institutions can support continued credit dissemination and thereby also growth and employment in our society. There will be among other things. changes were made to the so-called macro-prudential tools, which are the tools for the purpose, as also the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party emphasised, to address the risks that are in financial companies and which are due to developments in our economy or in the financial system in general. Then there will also be changes in the remuneration rules, including the requirement that institutions' wage policy be gender-neutral. The rules shall be implemented in accordance with the policy agreements on sound remuneration policies in the financial sector previously concluded. In addition, the draft law implements the new rules on the management of credit institutions in difficulty. These rules must help to ensure a credible resolution regime in which we are able to intervene sufficiently early and effectively against any failing credit institutions. It shall ensure the continuity of institutions' critical functions, while minimising the impact of the institution's collapse on both depositors, businesses and society as such and without the use of state funds. Clear frameworks for the prevention and management of institutions in difficulty help to strengthen financial stability and hence also confidence in the financial system. So in these words, I acknowledge the constructive contributions of the parties and look forward to the further legislative process.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126163556	Thank you to the Minister for Business. No one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, and if no one objects to this, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126163627	The debate is open. Sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126163646	Thank you for the floor. We are here with an exceptionally important bill. The Property Assessment Act deals with one of the major recovery tasks for the government and the Danish Parliament, so that the Danes can have confidence that they about 46 billion. kr., which is levied annually on property taxes, is levied on a fair and proper basis. We simply need to have a new property assessment system in Denmark, and so much is at stake: trust and fairness. It is also about withdrawing the complexity from the property valuation law so that we also achieve simplicity in legislation. Unfortunately, in view of the many years of challenges and unresolved issues, the Property Assessment Act can be characterised as a long history of suffering. As far back as 2013, the Reichsaudit found a basis for serious criticism of the property assessments, which were assessed by the audit to be neither good nor accurate enough. Since 2013, a broad majority in the Danish Parliament with various settlements has tried to ensure more accurate and consistent property assessments. Unfortunately, however, the situation is that major simplifications of the law are needed in order to implement the assessment system. Therefore, the Danish Parliament also adopted significant simplifications of the valuation models for owner-occupied housing in 2019. As in the case of condominiums, it has also not been possible to implement the model for the valuation of commercial properties, among others. It has been shown that the so-called fundamental model, which we are now proposing to replace, would in many cases give negative or very high values. Therefore, there must also be simplification of the valuation models for commercial properties. As I said, it is about trust and fairness, but also about the annual payment of land and cover tax for a total of 11.5 billion. kr. With L 107, therefore, a new and simpler model is proposed for establishing basic values for commercial properties. The model must be transparent and there must be a clear link between the basic values for commercial buildings and the basic values for owner-occupied dwellings and, above all, the rules must finally be implemented. By linking the basic values of commercial property to the basic values of owner-occupied housing, the data base becomes more solid and transparent, the assessments become more uniform than they are today, and, at the same time, the assessments are lower outside the larger cities than in the larger cities and lower outside the city centres. I think this is positive, and it makes sense again, in terms of trusting in the property assessment system; it must be fair and fair. Social democracy supports L 107.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126163949	Thank you, sir. Troels Ravn. No one has asked to comment. Then it is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left in the rapporteur's line.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126163959	Thank you for the floor. Real estate ratings are something that we have been discussing for many, many years. Back in 2012, the assessments were suspended because the Reichsaudit and the state auditors said they were flawed. There was nothing else to put in place. When we got the power of government in 2015, we started this work on getting it done. We had a settlement in 2016 about property valuations, both for owner-occupied buildings and also for commercial properties. As a result, we have had a lot of meetings primarily about owner's residences. It has been postponed for 3 years and we have had really big problems with it. We've worked hard trying to find a good opportunity for owner homes. We haven't had as many meetings. We have not discussed it as much, and that is why it came as a surprise to us when, at the beginning of the parliamentary year, at the end of September, we were told that the agreement we had on a business property valuation model was not possible. Instead, a completely different model for valuations of commercial properties had to be drawn up, and the whole building had to be completely abandoned. You had to settle for basic values, and this was to depend on the surrounding owner's housing prices. It's one thing we're worried about. This is particularly worrying because we think that we have had very little time to deal with this. As a conciliation party, we have had a short time to deal with it, and it has only been three weeks in consultation, one of which was in week 42. I think the answers to the hearings are worrying. I'm very, very worried. At the same time, however, we are also a conciliation party and we would also like to pay tribute to the conciliation we are part of. That is why we will also be supporting the bill, because we have been in dialogue with the Minister, who has promised us that we will have to deal in depth with the valuations on commercial property. But if it is the case that we do not make legislation by 1 January, then you have to have commercial property to be assessed according to the agreed model, which the Ministry says cannot be done. That is why the Minister has indicated to us that we can move the assessment period to 1 March and then have a thorough and thorough process about this business estate. I have to say that this is very important to us, because we feel a little that this has come in from the right and that we have not had a thorough enough treatment. I think that the hearings have been extremely critical and I am concerned. I am also concerned that the Data Protection Agency writes that the implementation risk has not been elucidated either. But we have a settlement and we need to find a solution from 1 January. That is why, of course, we will support this, but it requires a very thorough examination of the committee, and it requires that we separate the part that is about commercial property, so we are sure to have this dealt with properly, because we cannot live with the uncertainty surrounding this and the insecurity that I have in relation to legal certainty when we cannot complain about the assessment as such. So in those words, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126164307	Thank you to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. And then we have to move on in the rapporteur's line, and this time it is from the Danish People's Party. It's sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126164315	After all, the reason for this bill is the first part where we made an agreement on the property valuations in autumn 2016 and later a housing tax settlement in spring 2017. Along the way, there have been various challenges, including suggestions for improvements. We have dealt with them quite well, I think. It has been most of all about owner-occupied housing, where this is the second part of it, namely the part about the commercial property assessments, where some challenges have also come to be solved. It's probably mostly the commercial property assessments that I'm going to dive into with this, but there are also a number of other elements in the bill where I'll mention some of them briefly. Among other things: There is this part about temporary freezing, which has been an option, that is, when until the new tax rules came into force, there had been an obligation to freeze the increases due to the reason, and then it was so voluntary. There have been a number of citizens who have also approached me personally, but to most of us, I think, were tired of them not being able to pay their debts when they got an increase, and it is quite healthy that they would like to be allowed to pay instead of postpone it. And that is actually possible with this proposal, and I think that is a fine change, so you also have the opportunity if you are a homeowner who has a growing ground for guilt. Then there is automatic repayment, as we have agreed to do automatically for owner-occupied housing, which we still hold on to with this bill, but there is a change in relation to business where so forward-looking it will not happen automatically. And I understand that you will be wondering about that out there and will find it unsatisfactory, but as we can understand at the Ministry and as the bill also shows, there are quite a few properties that are actually going to get money back, because the vast majority of people have too low an assessment, so they already pay too little. And there you can look at the balance in terms of whether you have to start a giant device with IT development to make an automatic refund to quite a few people. Instead, a less administratively cumbersome solution, at least by the State, has been put in place, by bringing forward the right of appeal and by actually giving you the opportunity to complain twice. So, even if it's understandable that it's not positive, we can really understand that balance when it comes to making a huge IT project for this might seem a little violent. Then there is the crux of what the rapporteur of the Left is also diving into, and it is about the very valuation of commercial property that has proved impossible. I would also like to say, as the Left did, that it is a little too bad that it is only now. As I said, this is something that we agreed in the two agreements in 2016 and 2017 and then it is a little surprising that you only come here in 2020 and find out that it is actually not possible at all. But, on the other hand, we also have to sail the ship from where it lies, in other words in the reality we are in, and if that is not possible, then of course you have to find another solution. This bill then sets out to move away from a model where you have said what is a property worth in cash price, and then you are taxed on the basis of it is, of course, an assessment. But that is how the market standard has been and forward-looking it should be what is called an alternative cost model, where you take and compare the closest parcel house and say: What is the value of it? And then you make a scaling factor from it. And of course it may look like a model you can use, but I guess I'll just say that I'll predict that it can almost only end badly. For we have received a reply from the Minister, which shows that the model for ordinary owner-occupied dwellings is calculated at 71 per cent, i.e. within a margin of plus/minus 20 per cent. And when you have to do a scale down, which is such a fictitious, set rate, then it almost has to hit even more wrong compared to commercial properties. So that is also why, like the Left, I really want to have a good committee handling this to see if it is now, but there is also, I have to say, an understanding that if it is not possible with what we have and if there are no other models, then it may be that we are landing on this. However, I would also like to have a good, thorough committee procedure to get rid of whether there could be other solutions, because it is clear that in relation to something that cannot be done, it is of course better to have something that is bad but it could be good if we could find something that was also good instead. Then there is the legal security problem. So today, if you get an opinion you disagree with, you can look at what the neighbouring property or property in the area has been traded for, and then you can complain about it because you can see what the comparable trade prices are. With this alternative cost model, there are no comparable properties to compare. In other words, we are actually losing a right of appeal, and I do not think that is justified by legal certainty either. So there are also a number of drawbacks to the model proposed in this proposal. So, as I said, I would just like to point out that we are going to have a good committee procedure. This might perhaps be an expert hearing that we could have, or we could in another way have some of those who, as the Left says, have given rather critical consultation responses to this bill, perhaps to get on the ground and say: what could we put instead? For I must also say frankly that we are a little short here as tax rapporteur when we can see that there are problems in what was originally planned, but also in what has been proposed now. But what are we going to do instead? Now the time has passed, and in those words I would like to say that we support the other elements that are also included in the legislative proposal, also because we are part of the conciliation, but we have a little concern about the business property part.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126164825	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party. Then it is Mrs Kathrine Ollldag from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126164834	Thank you so much. Today we are dealing with a legislative proposal which is, of course, part of our common headaches, namely the property assessment area, and here in particular it is a matter of commercial property. When the Treasury comes to us politicians and says that what you have agreed in your political agreement is actually not possible, you know that it has been tried because they will go a long way to try to make things work. So when they come and say that this simply cannot be done you will have to do it in a different way, we will have to change the model and of course we will also listen in the Radical Left because we are usually reasonably pragmatic. Having said that, we can also see from the consultation answers that many are worried, and I sort of share Louise Schack Elholm's need to perhaps just press the pause button and then take us a few months when we get this chewed through in proper committee processing and separate the part that specifically deals with commercial properties. I'm not quite sure it's gonna make any difference, because I also know how hard the Treasury has been working on this. However, if we clarify all the various exceptions and all the concerns that exist, both in the consultation answers and in the requests we have received, then perhaps I think we will also be able to take a decision on one, we will at least feel more enlightened. So let's get started on that process. Of course, we are also pleased to see that a working group has been set up specifically to look at cooperative housing in this context. We are also very pleased that they have been separated and that a working group has been set up to look at what they are doing. But because, of course, we also honour the conciliation and want to help solve this problem, we shall vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126165027	Thank you to Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126165040	Thank you. As you know, SF is not part of the conciliation circle, so we have not been involved in the discussions behind the new model of property valuations, and when I look at the content of the bill here, I would actually have liked the government to consider including all parties. The draft law contains some technical amendments which, in short, will result in a major upheaval of the present system. This can have major consequences for commercial buildings and cooperative housing and forest and agriculture. I get the impression that a number of impact assessments are missing in this regard. It should be pointed out here that a shorter time limit has been granted for the parties to the hearing, as was also pointed out from up here earlier, and that they were also contacted just before the autumn holiday, which seems inappropriate. Let me elaborate on the shortcomings. As part of the bill, it is proposed that commercial properties should be assessed on the basis of the same principles as condos. That change will result in rental property and cooperative housing being taxed to a greater extent as if they were an owner's residence. Similarly, a property value will no longer be employed on an ongoing basis for commercial properties. As far as I can see, there is no estimate of how the changes will affect the rent of the buildings concerned. However, it is estimated from some of the consultation parties that the changes will result in a significant increase in property tax in commercial real estate, and this increase will most likely affect the tenants in terms of rent increases. As the draft law also deals with, the rules listed will also affect co-operative housing. Among other things: This means that the public property value will no longer be used for the valuation of cooperative housing. To this end, it is proposed to set up a committee to examine the valuation principles for the rules of the cooperative housing law. This, in turn, brings with it a need for good answers. For example: We call for an assessment of how this affects price developments for cooperative housing. Finally, changes in property assessments may affect initiatives to promote climate, environment and nature. Taking away the possibility of reviewing the valuation of set-aside land could make it a worse investment for farmers to set aside land for wetlands. The same applies to forest owners who plot areas for untouched forest. In other words, we run the risk of creating more reluctance to turn cultivated land into untouched nature, because the tax does not take account of the new use of the land. The preparation of the proposal has been based on the desire to simplify the current model of property valuations and to ensure the security of citizens in the area of housing taxation and rent. Based on the content of the bill and the consultation responses, which are reasonably critical, we have to note from the SF that there is still a task to assess the overall impact and disseminate it. That is why we cannot vote in favour of the legislative proposal at this stage, as we have some fundamental issues that we have yet to be explained. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126165349	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin. Then it is Mrs Victoria Velasquez from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126165357	Thank you. I'm giving the speech on behalf of our tax rapporteur, sir. Rune Lund, as he unfortunately has no opportunity to give the speech himself. The Enhedslisten is not part of the group of parties that voted in favour of the new housing tax system, nor were we in the circle who voted in favour of the new compensation agreement this summer. We basically believe that the new housing tax system is far too lenient, it costs over 10 billion in the long run. kr. This is not compared to a situation where housing taxes run out of control, but compared to Anders Fogh's tax freeze. At a time when the power parties find it so difficult to finance the green transition and to restore welfare and social security, for example. It is important to remind the House that a political majority has simply given a different priority, namely to give property owners a billion-dollar tax relief. The Enhedslisten is not enthusiastic about this bill either. Some elements are sensible. We agree that there should be more freedom of choice in relation to whether or not to use the freezing system. Unfortunately, there are also major problems in the draft law. If you read the consultation answers, you can see that the joint representation of the Cooperative Housing Associations and BL • Denmark's General Housing is very critical of the proposed. The cooperative housing associations are therefore rightly puzzled that they are not part of the reimbursement scheme. Denmark's General Homes points out that the proposal can help to counteract, for example, the fact that we do not have the right to vote in local elections. gets a more mixed resident composition in e.g. the capital, as the bill will contribute to rent increases, because the new way of calculating property taxes, where commercial property is to be assessed corresponding to owner-occupied dwellings, will also result in higher valuations for general housing and thus higher taxes and rent increases. Can it really be government policy? Several consultation responses also point out far too short deadlines for replying in the consultation process and that the quality of and regulatory quality is too low. The Enhedslisten cannot support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126165619	Thank you to Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126165632	This is, after all, the execution of some repair work on top of a very good housing agreement, we think. Although we still think that housing taxes in Denmark are far too high and screwed up, we would have made an agreement which proved to be a little more difficult to implement because of some problems in the SKAT, and then we had to make some adjustments to it, which of course we agree with, since we are part of the agreement. All in all, we think this is excellent and necessary adjustments, and that is why we are also supporting the draft law. I think, like the rapporteur on taxation of the Radicals, who was in the chair before, that we also think it is a good idea to have a more thorough discussion on the subject of the valuation of commercial property. I also feel at this stage that I have not yet seen a better solution than what is on the table, and therefore I am very much looking forward to getting a little more to the bottom of it. We have received a great many complaints from a great many companies that are dissatisfied with the solution that has been put on the table, but in the interest of the truth I would also say that I have not yet seen a better idea of how to do it myself, and that is why I am actually unsure of how we are going to deal with that point. But for that reason, it is also good to have it dealt with a little more thoroughly. So if we could make the amendment as proposed by the Left, we would very much like to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126165805	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126165810	New citizens are not part of that settlement and have not been involved in the preparatory work on it either. We share the concerns of a large number of rapporteurs, especially the whole problem of commercial property: can there be some who have a commercial property that is now going to be in a bad place, and thereby get a much higher tax from one day to the next because of this? There are some concerns about this, and this is something we would like to see clarified, and I also hear from all the other rapporteurs that this needs to be clarified much more thoroughly than it has become. I do not expect us in the new citizens to support the proposal, but we will finally take a position on that when we have clarified it a little more thoroughly than is the case now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126165858	Thank you. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126165909	Thank you, President. Thank you very much for both the great interest and, I think, constructive and also supportive feedback that has been given and the dialogue that has taken place on the legislative proposal. I would also like to thank both those who have submitted a hearing reply and have given an input to Parliament's parties, and others; that is important. This is a very important bill. It is a very important task, as several people have mentioned, to develop a completely new system for assessing properties in Denmark, but it is necessary, as the Danes must be able to trust that they approx. kr. annual property taxes shall be levied on a fair and reasonable basis. I would like to try to draw a little on the background to why we are actually standing here today. Indeed, in 2013 the National Audit Office criticised the property valuations that the Danes are currently taxed on the basis that they have not been good or accurate enough, and on that basis the property valuation has been suspended since 2013. It is therefore a bottom-up task to develop new and improved ratings for both owner-occupied homes and also commercial properties. That is why I am also pleased that this is a task that a broad majority in the Danish Parliament has taken on. Together, we have taken a whole series of difficult steps towards the restoration of the property area. With the broad valuation reconciliation from 2016 and the Property Assessment Act from 2017, the basic principles of the new valuation system were established. In the law there were among other things: established a new model for business assessments. It was established at a time when we basically did not have a data base to tell us whether the model would work. Since then, it has unfortunately become apparent that substantial simplifications of the 2017 law are needed in order to put the assessment system into practice. Therefore, the Danish Parliament adopted significant simplifications of the valuation model and the models for owner-occupied housing in autumn 2019. In 2019 there were in particular simplifications for ownership apartments, while the valuation models for single-family houses can generally be implemented as provided for in the 2016 valuation settlement. This is because the data base both in 2016 and now is significantly better for single-family houses than for other properties. As with the owner's apartments, after a thorough analysis, it has been found that it is unfortunately not possible to implement the business property valuation model provided for in the 2016 valuation agreement and described in the Property Assessment Act of 2017. This is due in particular to major challenges with the data base. These were challenges that we were not aware of in 2016. Among other things: The analyses have shown that the so-called fundamental model, which we propose to replace, will in very many cases give negative or very high values. It does not make sense and means that we can now see that the model does not work. For this reason, simplifications of the valuation models for commercial properties are also needed. I announced this to the conciliation group in the spring, which is why the compensation agreement of May of this year has agreed that there is a need for more simple and transparent business assessments. I would, of course, have liked to have seen it possible to implement the model agreed earlier, but it has to be said that we have become wiser since 2016 and it has proven that a different solution is needed from the one we believed in then. This is a big and important matter, as the owners of commercial property by 2020 alone pay approx. 11,5 billion kr. in the form of a ground for payment and a cover fee. Without a new and better assessment, we therefore lack the basis for charging over approx. 11 billion kr. annual. I know that the conciliation circle shares the seriousness of this matter with me, and I would like to sign for the good discussions we have already had during both spring and summer and autumn on this matter. Therefore, the government is now proposing a new and substantially simpler model for establishing land values for commercial properties that are more transparent and where there is a clear correlation between the land values for commercial properties and the land values for owner-occupied dwellings. There are a number of advantages to the proposed model, as opposed to the 2016 valuation agreement model, which I would like to dwell on a little. Firstly, the new model will result in considerable simplification, since the tax administration will be able to employ the basic value of commercial property without first having to determine the property value, and since the business valuations are based on the valuation models for owner-occupied dwellings that have already been developed. This will ensure that the new model can be implemented. By putting on top of the owner-occupied housing model, the data base becomes considerably more solid and transparent, and risks in the development of the new property assessment system are reduced, which also reduces development time. This gives us the desired connection to the owner's homes, and we get added that the ratings are more uniform than they are today. At the same time, assessments are lower outside the large cities than in the large cities and lower outside the urban centres. It actually makes sense. However, it is our assessment that the basic values for commercial properties can be too high if they are employed at the same level as owner-occupied dwellings. That is why, as has been the case, we are doing scaledowns, so for example. stores, offices and industrial properties continue to be assessed significantly lower than owner-occupied dwellings. This ensures fair and fair business assessments, even though, as I said, the underlying data base comes from the owner-occupied housing. In this context, I would like to remind you that, although the new and more accurate valuations for owner-occupied dwellings and occupations together lead to higher assessments, the total amount of land-use tax, calculated at the level of the municipality, will not be higher than agreed. As I have said, we will ensure this by setting the new ground blame phonographs, so that the proceeds from the ground blame do not increase as a result of higher assessments. Similarly, new cover charges will be fixed so that the proceeds of the cover charge do not exceed the agreed proceeds. It is important, both for taxpayers and also for tax authorities, that we now get on with the new business assessments. With the bill today, we have the necessary basis for it. Then I would like to look at some of the answers received that have been received and that have also been touched on in this Chamber today, where there has been a concern as to whether the model now also ensures adequate legal certainty. I would, of course, like to stress that the legal certainty of property owners is absolutely essential for the government and legal certainty must not in any way fall into the background, which the government does not believe is the case with the proposed model either. There is considerable legal certainty in the right of appeal. Of course, an owner of a commercial property will also be able to complain about the ratings with the model we are proposing. If e.g. the property owner considers that the possible use of the property has been misplaced or that the estimate for the underlying price of the owner's residence is incorrect, the owner will be able to complain about it. In addition, I have listened to a concern that no direct complaint can be made against commercial property prices. The reason for this is, of course, that the Committee of Experts, the so-called Engberg Committee, came to the conclusion in 2017 that it is not possible to establish a business model based on direct trade prices for business reasons. There is simply not enough data and the available data are not of sufficient solid quality. Therefore, the valuation settlement proposed a method that is not based directly on trade prices but indirectly estimates over basic values based on inter alia. rent, operating costs and construction costs. This method, as I mentioned earlier, has proved impossible. That is why we are now proposing another indirect method which, as I said, is simpler, but although the new model is simpler, it is no less reasonable. We will ensure this by making a number of scaledowns so that the basic values for commercial buildings remain lower than for the owner-occupied dwellings. With the proposed scaledowns, we ensure that the basic values are aligned with market levels based on rent levels and return rates. Thus, the new assessments will reflect real basic values. Moreover, the assessments will be considerably more uniform than they are today, and this means, for example, that two neighbouring sites with the same applications will also be assessed equally. This is not always the case today. If we were to have retained the so-called basic method, yes, then there would have been a need to establish, for example. minimum and maximum values, as many assessments would otherwise be negative or very high. This could rightly be criticised for being arbitrary, and that model would not in fact reflect a direct trade price standard either. The scale-down factors mentioned, which, as I said, must ensure that the new assessments have a reasonable level, must be laid down by law and therefore, of course, they will not be subject to appeal. But it is clear that they can later be changed if there is a political majority in favour of it. I would like to discuss whether we should already agree on a review clause so that we revisit the established scaling factors when there are concrete model assessments, that is. well before issuing the new assessments. Overall, therefore, the government considers that legal certainty for property owners is not impaired by the proposed model. Another key element of the legislative proposal is that we propose that the tax base for the coverage fee for 2022 should be established on the basis of the basic value instead of the difference between the property value and the land value. This makes very good sense socio-economically, as the levying of cover tax on the basis of the difference value, which in principle corresponds to the building value, reduces the incentive to make sensible building investments. This is also something that has been criticised by business for a long time. At the same time, the proposal provides for a considerable simplification of the further development of the system and thus a significant reduction in risks, as there will be no longer a need to set property values for the purposes of current property taxation. The same applies to the proposal to bring forward complaints about the continued valuations for commercial property rather than establishing a refund scheme for commercial property that will be very expensive to establish when we compare with how many we expect will actually get property tax back. The first ones, as I said, will be able to complain as early as 2021. And those who did not complain in the first round, if you will, can then complain in connection with the broadcasting of the new assessments. In addition, the proposal includes, inter alia: simplification of rules on the valuation of land and forest properties, adaptation of the property structure of the Board of Appeal and the advance of an already agreed change in the basis of the registration fee for commercial property. Furthermore, the draft law provides for the possibility of reimbursement of overpaid registration fees during a period during which the right of appeal in the property field has been suspended. Finally, the government will set up a committee which, with the involvement of stakeholders in the field, will look at the possibility for cooperative housing associations to price their cooperative housing when property values for commercial properties are no longer established. The committee must present possible solutions so that the parties to the agreement can discuss and establish a new model in good time when the public ratings are issued. This will enable cooperatives to apply the new solution earlier than if, as I have said, they wait for the new assessments. As mentioned, it is a bottom-up task to develop new and better property valuations for commercial properties. Better assessments are needed in order for us to be able to levy property taxes on a reasonable basis. The assessment model that we are proposing with this proposal will ensure that there is reasonableness in how we tax properties in Denmark. For the government, it is central that both homeowners and owners of commercial property pay each their fair share of property taxes no more or less otherwise. As mentioned above, real estate taxes for commercial properties alone currently amount to approx. 11,5 billion kr. annual. If that amount, popularly put, does not come into the box, it will be the property owners who will have to pay for it otherwise we will have to accept a significantly lower revenue from property taxes in the future. As the valuation date for commercial real estate is 1 January 2021, a new model for the valuation of commercial real estate must be adopted before the end of the year. If, over the coming weeks, we cannot reach agreement in the conciliation circle on the new business valuation model, the government is prepared, as I said, to allow the commercial property valuation period to be run from 1 January 2021 to 1 March 2021. However, as everyone knows, this could lead to a slight delay and increase in the overall property assessment programme. However, it is my clear hope that before Christmas we will be able to adopt the bill in this Chamber so that the tax administration can get to work. After all, the conciliation circle has already taken considerable responsibility for this important area, and I am therefore sure that we will reach a common goal. And, of course, after this long but very important speech, I am prepared to answer questions about this important bill in both conciliation and committee work. Thank you for the floor, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126171411	It took exactly 15 minutes. Thank you. We'll tell the tax minister. I do not see that anyone has signed up to comments. So no one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201126171431	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 27 November 2020, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
