ParlaMint-DK_20200908100001	The meeting is open. I have to tell you today that the debate is being interpreted in sign language and can be seen directly on the Danish Parliament's website. I must also say that we still have quite serious problems about corona, and it is the case that Members of Parliament have the right, of course, to be in the Chamber. But I would ask you to observe distances and, if there is a need for conversation, to pull out in the sidelines for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908100034	It is the case that each rapporteur has 10 minutes to begin with and then 45 minutes to debate. And we'll start with sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908100053	Thank you for that, thank you for the floor. In 2019 Rikke moved 25 from Aalborg to Helsingør to work in a cosmetics company. The move was expensive, so Rikke had to debt to move after the dream job. Unfortunately, the joy was short when Rikke was terminated during the trial period. 53-year-old Claus has worked in the same food business since he was in the mid-30s, but 18 years of seniority and the fact that Claus has given the best years of his life to the company was not enough to avoid a firing when the corona came. The two share fate with Elise from Copenhagen, who, after her corona firing, hopes that after all she will have the financial opportunity to keep her car because her boyfriend lives in the country. I have highlighted three human fates above, but in reality I could just as well have chosen any one of the 40,000 Danes who have either lost or are going to lose their jobs this year as a result of the corona. Of course, unemployment affects economically, but unemployment affects just as often mentally, it affects the individual on self-confidence. There are many people who simply break if their self-understanding goes with the job. The last time we saw mass unemployment sticking its ugly face out in Denmark was after the financial crisis. At that time it was the responsibility of the Left to lift Denmark out of the crisis. It was a responsibility that the Left failed. At that time, the Left Government's response to the financial crisis was to implement unequal tax reliefs, unfunded tax reliefs and permanent tax reliefs. It struck such a significant gap in the Treasury that the following year financial policy had to be tightened up, resulting in the severe deterioration of our social security net in the recovery package, even though unemployment at that time was still 6%. At that time, it was the weakest in our society and those who were at the top of the labour market who paid the highest price for the crisis, and it was the most well-paid who got the biggest gains. The richest Danes received a tax relief of 1.5 million. kr. each; hard-working wage earners then lost de facto early retirement. It was an unanswered way of dealing with the crisis; it was an unwise way of dealing with the crisis. The consequence was that it took 10 years before employment was at the same level as before the crisis. And for the people who lost their jobs during the financial crisis, many of them never catch up. The fact is that the employees who worked in a company that had to close during the financial crisis earn DKK 35,000 10 years after the crisis. less a year than those who weren't called up • 35,000 kr. That is also why the tone of the international economic debate has changed since the financial crisis. Today, the OECD, the UN, and the International Monetary Fund recommend their Member States to use public investment on the one hand and reinforced social security networks on the other to get the economies back on their feet. These are wise recommendations that are also reflected in this year's draft budget. Conversely, inaction and laissez-faire-liberalism would lead to lower economic weight, an increase in structural unemployment, an increase in structural unemployment, which would, in the long term, reduce our room for manoeuvre. That is the lesson of the financial crisis and there is no need to make the same mistake twice. That's why the government is acting now. Denmark and the Danes showed a sense of community when together we won the first round of the corona. We need that cohesion again. We need to show as strong a will in the fight against the consequences of the corona as we showed against the corona. After all, the consequences of the Corona are unemployment, and that is the unemployment that we must combat now. This is the most important clue in this year's draft budget. The financial bill has been tabled in an uncertain time. The Corona has cost human lives, and the Corona has left the whole world in a huge, massive economic crisis. And even if Denmark, with massive aid packages politically and also with human unity and with a adaptable and self-sacrificing health care provider, has done better than other countries, we are also affected. Bnp is expected to fall by as much as 4.5 per cent this year, and despite the fact that the Danes have again started to swing the Dankorts and domestic demand therefore seems reasonable, this picture can unfortunately quickly turn if the health situation does. This is a situation that we must be able to deal with. Exports are also in a precarious situation because the countries with which we are dealing are experiencing significant economic downturns. 800,000 Danes depend on us to sell our goods abroad. It is also an uncertainty that we must be able to deal with, and that is why the budget bill contains a war fund of 9.2 billion. kr. This is an extraordinary measure. It is an extraordinary amount of money, and it must provide extraordinary flexibility in an uncertain time. The money must go to secure Danish jobs, for example in the export industries, for extraordinary costs in the health care sector, for a possible vaccine and, of course, for the economic, green recovery. It is absolutely crucial that the investments we are making today make us both richer and greener tomorrow. Therefore, the war box must support and build on spring's green recovery, while autumn's work on green tax reform, a greener Danish agriculture and a greener transport sector is in continuation of the significant CO2 With the budget bill, the government maintains historically high ambitions for green research. We stick to a research budget of 1%. of bnp, and we earmark a further 750 million. kr. to green research, thus surpassing last year's historically high level of green research. Green research is important because it is green research that is one of the prerequisites for us to have the opportunity, in the long run, both wisely and socially responsible, to meet our very ambitious 70-percent climate target. The green thread is therefore clear in the work of the government; the green thread is clear in the draft budget. The recovery of Denmark must be green, but the recovery of Denmark must also be fair. When the Danes stood together before the summer holidays by keeping distance, stayed at home from work, kept the children at home from institutions, and when the young people sacrificed travels, schooling and parties all to shield the most vulnerable groups; the groups who simply did not survive if they had a corona infection it was my lifetime's most obvious and strongest manifestation of what Denmark basically is. The community mind, that community, can only survive if we strengthen security if we strengthen justice. That is why the government also maintains our ambitions and strengthens welfare, the police and the tax administration. With the 2020 Finance Act, we gave welfare the greatest boost in over 10 years. We strengthened the psychiatry, we set aside money for minimum standards, for more teachers in primary school and for 1,000 new nurses, and we abolished the education ceiling. And that is a line that we will continue with the financial bill for next year. We are once again raising welfare in municipalities and regions. We are more than covering the demographic trait, and we are also allocating funds to ensure a better future for exposed and placed children. We increase the quality and competence of care for the elderly. In addition, for the first time in several decades we are actually proposing the social safety net extended with a right of dignified withdrawal for the worn-out who have worked the longest. For the first time in decades, the Danes will find that the word reform does not mean cuts, but fair improvements for ordinary people. Socialism requires basic confidence that the community is also there when you need help. That is why we are strengthening our welfare societies in a time of crisis. I started my speech by talking about Rikke, Claus and Elise. To those and the thousands of others who have lost or will lose their jobs, I would like to say very clearly: there are no politicians who can magic, even if we would like; but I can guarantee that the government will do everything it can to ensure a recovery, a responsible recovery of the economy. We will do everything we can to get as many people as possible back to work. We're gonna light up all the boilers. We go to the limit of the budget law. We are doing the only thing responsible when we invest our way out of the crisis and in this way we are holding hands under 46,000 jobs next year. The government's absolute most important priority is to lead Denmark safely through the corona crisis. This requires us to act responsibly, greenly and socially fairly. That task was accomplished by the people's government in the spring. I hope that together we can repeat that achievement in the autumn. Basically, I think the Danes expect it from us. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908101055	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the case that there is now 45 minutes of debate with the Socialist rapporteur, and I should just like to point out that if you want to speak, even if we have lists of names, you have to press on. Because otherwise we can't control it from up here. First, it's sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908101109	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. My question is about part of what the Socialist rapporteur mentioned, namely combating unemployment, and this is an important issue. The rapporteur himself mentions Rikke, Claus and Elise, and when we look at what the government presented last week, and at what we have had during the technical review, we can see that unemployment is potentially only going down to the level it was before the corona crisis by 2025. Is it satisfactory for the three people mentioned by the rapporteur in his speech that we should go all the way to the next parliamentary term before unemployment falls to the level it was six months ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908101153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908101154	One might say a little bluntly that if we had pursued the line that Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen's party pursued if we had used the same recipe that the Left used after the financial crisis, then it would take 10 years to come back. I hope we can do this faster. We go to the limit of the budget law, we put coal under all boilers to get people back into work as quickly as possible. It's the smartest strategy, it's the most responsible. The main problem currently facing the Danish economy is to combat unemployment, and I have to say that when I look at the reports from the Left in recent weeks, when we have had the opportunity to discuss this in depth, it is a bit like observing a sailor on land law. Well, it sails to both sides. We are criticising the government with one hand for spending too much money, and with the other hand we are saying that it is not going fast enough to restore the economy. I think the Left would do well, for the rest of the debate, to find out what is really the line on this issue. We fight unemployment, we go to the limit of the budget law. That's the government line.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908101252	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908101254	Thank you for your concern, and thank you for your advice, but we can take the debate when I have the opportunity to be on the platform myself. My question is this: is it reasonable that so many years should pass before anything is done for Rikke, Claus and Elise? Is it really visionary that we should enter the next parliamentary term, in other words until 2025, before unemployment is down to the level it was before the Corona crisis, when we look at the impetus that the government in which I was sitting passed on to this government? Is that ambitious enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908101327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908101328	I think sir... Troels Lund Poulsen must notice the passage in my speech where I talked about no politician being able to conjure. If I or the government could spell, unemployment would be gone in this second. What we can do is do everything we can with political means to combat unemployment. In all modesty, that is what the government is doing. This is a significant other line than the one which the Left has previously pursued in similar crises. That is why we will return to a better situation more quickly than we would if we were to save. I hope that with regard to employment, we can come back more quickly to the times before, but there is also much to be said in foreign countries. Next year we will hold hands under 46,000 jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908101406	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen-Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908101409	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. The rapporteur is quite right that these are extraordinary times. Of course, this will also be reflected in the financial law of the year. I would also like, on behalf of the SF, to acknowledge that there are a large number of good tactics in the government's draft Finance Bill. Of course, first and foremost, it has now become normal to cover the demographic trait and say that when there are more children and older people, the cost of it must also be covered. It wasn't a matter of course before, but it is now. So thank you for that. My question is about this so-called war fund of 9.2 billion. kr.: If it is to be implemented, it must, according to the government, go to everything, that is to say to vaccines, an expansive financial policy, green jobs, to hold hands under businesses, etc., but nobody knows the future. If we get a vaccine that ends up costing virtually everything, what will happen to the Danish jobs that we have to keep our hands under?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908101521	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908101522	Thank you. Thank you very much for also pointing out that we have basically pursued a new course in Danish politics, namely a course that is about our welfare society not becoming worse when we are fortunately having more children and more elderly people. Perhaps this is something we are discussing too little, because it sounds a little dry with demographic features, but that is what makes the difference when they are sitting and making budgets in the municipalities at the moment and do not have to make the savings they had to make when there was a bourgeois regime. As far as the war fund is concerned, we have allocated 9.2 billion. kr. That is a very, very significant amount, and the expectation is that it can help to cover both a restart of our economy and the fact that our exports are uncertain but also unforeseen health costs. If we are in a situation where a vaccine costs much more than that, it is a hypothetical question.I imagine that we will go to the extremes to ensure that a vaccine is affordable.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908101626	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen-Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908101627	Thank you. That is what the rapporteur actually says, which is a little my point. I cannot imagine a single party rapporteur who, in the Committee on Finance, will vote against an act which is about paying for a vaccine for the entire population of Denmark, no matter what else happens. And fortunately, Denmark's economy is at its core, and I am also glad that it seems as if the Social Democracy and SF are on the same wavelength when it comes to saying: Good times saved funds must be used to hold hands under business and Danish jobs in a time of crisis. Therefore, we also want the SF to earmark a much larger part of the war fund by saying that no matter what, we will support Danish jobs and at the same time contribute to the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908101715	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908101716	Thank you again for the question. That says something about the task of looking after jobs and the task of making a green recovery, the SF and the Social Democrats are on the same wavelength. That's a good thing. Then the rapporteur also notes that we have a healthy economy, that we have a low level of debt compared with other countries. That is why we also have some opportunities if the situation gets out of control. We saw in the spring that we had an economy, so we were able to take some quite extraordinary steps. We could, because we have a healthy economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908101749	Then it's mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908101751	Thank you for that, and also thank you for your speech. It is true that what is also said by other rapporteurs is that Denmark has a healthy economy. But it has not come on its own, and what is happening now is borrowing large loans. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur something, because the rapporteur is in his rapporteur's speech and says that there are 1.5 billion. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. But there is also the fact that the Danish EU contribution is increasing by 4.5 billion. kr. kr. was completely crazy, said the Prime Minister; 4.5 billion. kr. I mean, it's a huge discount that we're gonna get. But that is at least an additional cost. Can the rapporteur say what it is like to actually finance it? Because when you look at the draft budget, you take up huge loans during this budgetary period. Isn't it the case that you're starting to borrow money for business? And isn't that a little unhealthy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908101837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908101838	It is true that Denmark has a healthy economy, and that is one of them. because of the 2006 welfare agreement. It is the one that basically keeps our hands on the fact that we have a healthy economy. Fortunately, the balance has now been restored. When we made the welfare agreement, it was a precondition that the bourgeois had the post-retirement pay removed, and now we have created a right to a dignified withdrawal, which means that there has also been a balance around that agreement. I think that is good for the sustainability of the Danish economy. With regard to the EU contribution, it is the case that last year some reserves were set aside to cover the additional contribution that is quite expected to have been made. It is, of course, an additional contribution which has been reduced thanks to the result that our Prime Minister negotiated home in Brussels, but it is the case that EU contributions are financed under the Finance Act, as has been the case in all previous governments. This will also apply during the current period.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908101933	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908101934	That is right; it is just paid by box one, which means that it is money that cannot be spent on anything else, and that means that Denmark is in a situation now that our contribution to the European Union has increased by 4.5 billion. kr. At the same time, the rapporteur stands and says that we are in a situation now that we are borrowing up to the border right up to the border So, if you have to draw a picture in relation to home, you have borrowed right up to the chimney now to get the store to drive around. Is it not a challenge to start borrowing money for running operations? We very much agree with the government that when you are in a crisis situation, you have to invest; then you have to invest in something that makes you richer. And then you can discuss whether Denmark really gets richer from this EU contribution, as the Prime Minister says is crazy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908102016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908102017	Well, there are more questions in it. I can assure you that reserves will be set aside so that we can deal with the contribution that we have to pay to the European Union. With regard to the more important discussion about what is responsible economic policy, I think I will just take a thick line under that yes, we go to the limit of the budget law; we planned with a deficit. And why do we do that? That is because next year's deficit is not a challenge for the Danish economy, at least not compared to the challenge we have if we do not manage unemployment. It is unemployment that is the enemy, it is the one we must fight against and therefore what we are doing is responsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908102053	Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908102056	Thank you. Like the previous questioner, I am also a little concerned that the government has a number of priorities, which, after all, means significantly increased public expenditure, which exceeds the room for manoeuvre, while at the same time there are several of the initiatives proposed by the government that weaken employment; it is expensive with early retirement and priority funds for the police. However, there is no provision in the financial bill to ensure real CO2 emissions. We are proposing to increase the debt, and we are borrowing from the future, but there is no provision for any money to invest in the future, and this is frankly causing me concern about this more fundamental financial responsibility. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: will the government or the Social Democratic Party present an economic plan which shows how we can afford financially the priorities that are absolutely crucial for the future, among other things. a reduction of CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20200908102213	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908102214	I think I have to say that I disagree slightly with Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, because it has to be borne in mind that the fight to achieve more CO2 there is an implementation trail which is about what we are doing here and now. That is the lead contained in the debate on how to get more green cars, how to reduce in agriculture, how to do with industries and energy. That's where we do CO2 It's an important priority that we share with the Radical Left. But there is also another track, namely the development trail, which is about how we ensure the reductions that are close to 2030, i.e. those that lie in the years to come, the reductions that we today do not have the imagination or the knowledge to know how we are actually going to get home. If those reductions are to go home, we will have to invest in green research, and that is why there is certainly CO2 we put 750 million. kr. of the green research.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908102318	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908102320	Thank you. Then I have two questions. In fact, I asked: will the government present a comprehensive economic plan showing how the government will make things work together? And then I can ask quite specifically, because there is CO2 How many CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20200908102339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908102340	Well, as I think the rapporteur will be aware, when you are on the development track, that is to say, the track that is about setting aside 750 million. kr. to green research, not to put concrete CO2 but I think we can agree that although we cannot answer that question in concrete terms, that research is absolutely crucial because we cannot yet soberly answer how we achieve our ambitious objectives. As far as the long-term economic plan is concerned, we have said very clearly that we have to be in balance again by 2025, and that is the policy we are pursuing; that is the balancing path we are pursuing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908102419	Then it's Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908102421	Thank you for your speech, which in many ways was good. I also agree with Mr Enhedslisten's view that in many ways the crisis management that has been in this process has been much better and significantly different from what we saw just over 10 years ago in the context of the financial crisis. What amazes me a little is that the rapporteur correctly says that the financial law for 2020 was the best financial law for about 10 years, and then the rapporteur says: well then we will continue in 2021. That is not quite right, because with what the government has put forward, the level of ambition is lower than it was for 2020. So my question is: why is the level of ambition lower for next year, compared to what it is for this year? I'm gonna have to agree with the Left. We are in a situation where we invest our way out of the crisis. It is about investing in restoring our welfare, which is very urgent, and it is about investing in the necessary green transition. So why is the level of ambition for next year lower than it is for this year? I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908102528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908102529	Thank you for the question, and thank you for noting that crisis management is fundamentally different under the current government, where we invest our way out of the crisis and where recovery must be socially balanced. I think that is an important point. I don't think I said last year's Finance Act was the best in ten years. I think I may think so, but what I said was that it was the best for welfare for 10 years, and my point was that, with the current Finance Act, we are building on top. Overall, we set aside two municipal agreements 3.2 billion. kr. to the municipalities, which is therefore the basic welfare boost • the welfare promise which means that at the moment you are sitting and making budgets without having to make the endless saving catalogues, which was the reality when we had a different majority. Then I just have to say that the things we agreed last year are being implemented. They're being implemented now. In other words, it is this year and next year that money is being set aside for psychiatry, for minimum standards, for more teachers, for more nurses. So we're building upstairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908102629	Sir. Rune Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908102631	It is true that we are building up on the purely demographic aspect, but last year, when we negotiated what applies to 2020, we delivered much more. That is why I just think that the rapporteur needs to tell us why the level of ambition for 2021 should not be at least the same as it has been for 2020. After all, as the rapporteur also says, we are in a situation where we have to invest our way out of the crisis. We can invest in the restoration of welfare, we can create jobs by strengthening our welfare and restoring it, and we can invest in the necessary green conversion. And we are very busy, because we must achieve a 70-percent reduction target by 2030. So why are the ambitions not higher in what the government has put forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908102714	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908102715	It is true that we are covering the demographic move, but we are actually doing more than that. We're gonna add up on top of the demographic trait. I also fully recognise that there may be parties, including the Enhedslisten, that want to spend more money. After all, the government is responsible for ensuring that things are balanced. We have the challenge that, after a corona epidemic, which unfortunately now flares up considerably again in several Danish cities, we have a priority task that is harder and harder than it has been in the past. This does not change the fact that we are strengthening welfare, but we must remember the priorities, and we must also remember the balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908102749	Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908102752	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. I would like to ask a little about the most jante-loved tax we have seen in Denmark in recent times. It is the generational taxation of the Danish family-owned companies when the daughter or son is to take over. It is, of course, a tax that we Conservatives would like to eliminate completely. Social democracy, on the other hand, has tripled taxation, and it is therefore a tax that does not affect funds, does not affect public companies, does not affect international companies, does not affect listed companies, it affects only the Danish family companies. So can the rapporteur not explain to me what the Social Democrats do not like about Danish family businesses?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908102836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908102837	I can assure the questioner and everyone else that we love talented entrepreneurs. We love strong Danish family-owned companies that create thousands of jobs; who are behind the export, which is absolutely crucial to creating Danish jobs • Danish family-owned companies, which also have a connection with Denmark, which means that even if you see that the neighbouring company is flagging out production to Poland or elsewhere, it is often the family-owned companies that say: No, we belong in this city, we belong in this region that we belong to in Denmark. And that's how they're gonna take the lead. It is the type of companies that have built Denmark, the type of companies that ensure that you also still have business associations out in the small towns. But that does not mean, of course, that it should be the case when you pass on large fortunes to the next generation, that they should not be taxed. Of course they must, because that is fair. And it is also one of the foundations for us to be able to finance our welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908102941	Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908102942	Well, with the love expressed by the rapporteur to the Danish family companies in the first half of the speech, I thought for a moment that it was a conservative who stood on the platform. But it makes no sense to impose a tax on family businesses that does not affect anyone else. It is, of course, as distorting competition as it can possibly be. And we are the only country in our part of the world with social democracy at the head where you go the wrong way. In Sweden, with the Labour Party in the lead, the taxation of the generation has been abolished; in Norway, the Labour Party has said that they will not rewind the abolition of the generational tax imposed by the bourgeois parties. Why will social democracy be the only party in our part of the world going the wrong way?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908103024	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908103025	As far as I remember, if you look at the global situation, there are very different rates. And there are also countries that are substantially above us. I just think I have to say quite basically that I like family-owned businesses; I like entrepreneurs; I like businesses that produce green, that produce wisely, that create jobs. But that doesn't mean I'm freeing those companies from paying taxes. And we believe that if you pass on large fortunes, you should also be taxed on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908103056	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908103058	Thank you. Can the rapporteur not explain to the Danes out there the reasonableness that they must now deliver even more of their money while the government continues to spend 33 billion. kr. on a failed non-Western immigration?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908103111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908103112	There is, of course, such a premise in the question that we should have raised taxes in general. In other words, I am fully in favour of a broad majority of parties deciding that cigarettes should cost something more, so that fewer young people start smoking. We had a week last week when we discussed inequality in health and where we discussed what the causes are for people with unskilled work to die 7 years before I die with a long higher education. One of the main reasons for this is smoking. That is why we have put a tax on it for the sake of public health by a broad majority. I am fully committed to that. There are also skewed tax concessions under the bourgeois government in relation to very high stock returns. We roll them back in order to give the most worn, who have worked longest, the opportunity to retire, that is, more freedom around their retirement age. A freedom that is now extended to many other groups. And I'm in full measure of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908103212	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908103213	Well, that's fine. The rapporteur just does not answer the question of why the money would rather be spent on misguided non-Western immigration, which costs 33 billion. kr., while at the same time it is believed that citizens should have more money out of their pockets. Because that's what happens when you tax business, then the money goes on. This is even stated in the legislative proposals put forward by the government, namely that this is being phased out to the citizens. So I just ask: what is becoming more expensive for the Danish family for children who are not taxed? Is it the football quota? Is it the birthday of the child? Could you try to be concrete about what it is that the citizens out there no longer have to spend their money on, because you insist on demanding more money, which you then spend on misguided non-Western immigration?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908103246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908103247	Well, we are not making the general tax increases that the rapporteur is trying to make it look like we are doing. I would very much like to measure up to the specific choices we have made about cigarettes, for example, but the other is not a true picture of reality. As far as failed immigration is concerned, we are working intensively to get that bill down. After all, it is about how we can get some of the immigrants who are in Denmark into the labour market with wise second-generation reforms. So we would very much like to work with New Citizens to get that bill down.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908103320	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908103322	Thank you. When we stand here today and have an economy that can deal with a corona challenge, it is because in Denmark, in the past, long-term reforms and investments have been carried out that prepared Denmark for the future that we are now facing. When we see the government's proposal for a Finance Act, it's devoid of that kind of thing. It is purely spending money on here and now tasks, and no long-term reform policy is being pursued. An example: In March 2019, the Blue Government presented an investment plan for the transport infrastructure in Denmark. It contained many points, and let us be quite specific here, among others. that one of the most trafficked sections on the national road network in Denmark, namely the intersection of the motorway between E20 and E45 in Kolding, where Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen has been set up, should be expanded. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen went to the elections in Kolding, saying that he would. Christian Rabjerg Madsen too. He said: you can safely vote for me; if the Social Democracy comes to power, we will also begin to expand the motorway crossing in Kolding in 2021. Hasn't he succeeded? Christian Rabjerg Madsen to get it into the Finance Act, or has Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen didn't even try?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908103432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908103433	We have said very clearly that we will, of course, be presenting a comprehensive infrastructure plan, and all members of the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group or other parliamentary groups can have different local perspectives, which they think are particularly important, and I have had that too. Then we will have to see when that plan is presented how to finally cut the cake. I am fully aware that around Kolding we have a piece of motorway that is extremely strained. There we have a very significant challenge. As for the first part of the question, Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen, that we do not have any reforms that create jobs. That's wrong. What we do not have is this death-sick one-sided focus on labour supply in a situation where it is not the challenge, but where the challenge is that we have more than 40,000 people who are unemployed. The problem that the Danish economy currently has is not that we lack hands on the labour market. The problem we have right now is that there are too many hands that have nothing to order. And that is the greatest threat to our economy, the greatest threat to growth, the greatest threat to the room for manoeuvre in the long run, and that is what we are fighting here and now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908103536	Ole Birk Olesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908103537	I'm just referring to the government itself. After all, the government itself and the Ministry of Finance tell us that employment is falling as a result of the financial bill presented here by the government, and this Arnepension has not even been taken into account, which causes employment to fall even further. But my question to Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen was: In the election campaign Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, that one could safely vote for Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen in Kolding, because Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen and the Social Democratic Party would also begin to expand the motorway intersection between E20 and E45 at Kolding in 2021 as well as the blue government. That is not in the draft budget. No money has been set aside to do so in the draft budget, nor in the other transport projects. Is it because Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen has not tried to get it in, or is it because Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen has not succeeded in getting it in?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908103620	Thank you. Then it's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908103621	As far as transport policy is concerned, I think I actually answered it fairly well in the first round, namely that we are going to present a transport plan and that I personally am very aware that we have some traffic challenges around Kolding. Then there is the question of employment. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen is doing a cunning trick here that we need to shed light on. That is not true when it is claimed that there is no employment. We're gonna create 46,000 jobs next year with this financial bill. What we're not doing is touching the job offer. We can discuss this in the long run, but the problem is now
ParlaMint-DK_20200908103659	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908103701	Thank you very much, and thank you for your speech. In the alternative, of course, we are also a little shocked that the Finance Act addresses the green challenges such as climate and nature to such a low extent when you see what challenges we face. But what I want to ask is: why do we not borrow some money to address, for example? The climate? When the corona crisis came, it actually turned out that we could borrow hundreds of billions of dollars. It may well be that my colleagues here in the Danish Parliament knew that this could actually be done rather painlessly, but I did not really expect it to be so simple. And I think there are many citizens who might not know either. Can the rapporteur confirm that we actually have liquidity to be able to borrow painlessly, for example? 100 billion kr. for short-term investment?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908103752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908103754	Thank you for the question. I do not agree that our Finance Act lacks anything on the green. 200 million kr. to nature. 750 million kr. to climate • when we go out of a year where we have made the largest CO2 So there is a green line that is very, very clear. As far as the issue of loan possibilities is concerned, it is true that we have the opportunity to borrow money to make wise investments. This is also what we do with the Finance Act and we go to the limit of the Budget Act. It is because we need to invest now so that we get unemployment down because it is the biggest threat to our economy. But there are balances here, which I think the question perhaps did not clearly reflect. Because what is the reason why we can borrow money cheaply now? It is, of course, that our basic economy is healthy and that our debt is low. So if you just borrow and borrow, the two prerequisites will disappear. The economy will be unhealthy and our debt will be high, and then we will not be able to borrow for investment in the long term. These balances must be observed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908103901	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908103903	Well, I am pleased that the rapporteur actually confirms that we could borrow, for example. 100 billion kr. That's not borrowing and borrowing, because we could actually borrow a lot more. But we would certainly be able to borrow 100 billion. This is the kind of amount we need to get up to when we need to get a short-term investment in the green transition, because we can only borrow that money for short-term investment. The green switch-over e.g. a five-year plan of 20 billion. kr. A year ago we will be a short-term investment of the size needed to address these challenges that we have made in the world's best climate legislation. Why are we sitting on our hands when we can painlessly borrow that kind of money and when they are needed now?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908103938	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908103939	Again, I have to say that I do not recognise the premise that we are sitting on our hands. Well, with agreements from the spring we make the biggest reductions in CO2 I think from memory it's about 4.5 million. a. What we have to do is 20 million. a. That means a fifth reduction in one year. I fully agree that the latter will be more difficult, but these are significant reductions. And we are facing very, very big negotiations in the autumn, where we need to find new reductions, so we are so ambitious. As far as loan possibilities are concerned, I think we should be aware that yes, we can borrow and that it is wise to borrow now, but there are some balances around our basic economy that must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908104017	Then it's Mrs. Sophie Løhde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908104019	Thank you. If unemployment is the enemy that we must combat, then the government should also have presented a proposal for a financial law in which the hero is the country's businesses, those who create jobs and thus make more and not fewer people able to enter employment. And I have to say that I am rather puzzled when the rapporteur stands on the floor today and says: the Socialists we love entrepreneurs. If you love entrepreneurs, can the rapporteur not explain to me why this government is exactly proposing to increase the tax on risk capital, which is precisely affecting entrepreneurs and growth companies? This is a strange way of showing that you love entrepreneurs, that is to say, you love those who create jobs when you do it by punishing them harder and creating fewer jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908104111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908104112	But again I have to say about the confusion that exists about the concepts here and which is also expressed in Mrs Sophie Løhde's question, namely that there should be no employment: that is simply wrong. Our financial bill and total economic initiatives for 2021 create 46,000 jobs • 46,000 jobs that would not have been there if we had just stood by. That is why it is not right to keep claiming and it will no longer be right to repeat the fact that there is no employment. There is employment and an action is directly addressed against what is our main problem, namely unemployment. When Mrs Sophie Løhde talks about employment, Mrs Sophie Løhde is really talking about labour supply. And we can easily discuss labour supply: how do we get immigrants into the labour market? How do we get 50,000 young people without jobs and without education into the labour market? How do we do this wisely? But it is quite mistaken that the Left is using so much effort to talk labour supply in a situation where unemployment is the challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908104215	Mrs. Sophie Løhde, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908104216	Instead of talking about the Left, it could be that the rapporteur would start answering the questions that are actually being asked. It is the rapporteur himself who stands in the Chamber today and says: we Social Democrats, we love entrepreneurs. And then I just ask quite quietly: if you love entrepreneurs, why do you raise taxes on entrepreneurs and growth companies by raising taxes on risk capital? These two things don't fit together. This is certainly a very strange way of showing that you love someone, when you do it by punishing them harder and by creating fewer jobs rather than creating more jobs. And it's the basic problem with this government's economic policy that Denmark gets poorer and that more people are going to lose their jobs. It is written in black and white in the government's own financial statement. So does the rapporteur still think that this government loves entrepreneurs by raising taxes for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908104307	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908104308	I mean, we love entrepreneurs. We are allocating more money to match funding, and what is one crucial element for the entrepreneur today, the entrepreneur who is going to start his business, is that we get the economy kicked off. The most crucial thing we can do at the moment is to do all we can to boost the economy. That is why the Left has to find out what they really think. The government has cleared it up. We're gonna light up all the boilers, and we're gonna go to the limit of the budget law to kick off the economy. Apparently, the left is still in doubt on that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908104343	Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908104345	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech and reply. In his speech, the rapporteur puts a great deal of emphasis on the fight against unemployment, and I think that is a good thing. The rapporteur is certainly aware of this in words, but not so much in action. For this government has done almost nothing but to sprinkle new taxes and taxes beyond Danish society. It is also, in fact, taxes that affect the green entrepreneurs, who are going to create jobs for the future and who are going to set the wheels in motion and make sure that the people the rapporteur spoke about get a job. That is why I am surprised that the rapporteur's party is raising taxes. I am even more surprised when we know that in May the Prime Minister said, and now I am quoting, about tax increases, that it would be a strange answer to Danish business, which is in a really, really difficult situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908104440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908104441	I'd like to explain to you, sir. Morten Dahlin, why the Prime Minister wasn't wrong in May. The Prime Minister is not wrong, because what the Prime Minister says is fleeing to you with what I said earlier on to a similar question, namely that one can try to give the impression that we have raised taxes in general, but that is just not the case. We have not raised taxes in general. But we have made a number of very specific priorities and some of them, together with the Left, including that we, for example. raised the price of cigarettes. I am fully committed to that. This makes sense when it comes to getting more young people to quit smoking or not to start smoking in the first place. I am also fully committed to the fact that we have closed a tax gap of 700-800 million. kr. for foreign residential speculators. I am also fully in favour of raising the tax on the highest return on equity. I am also fully committed to the fact that we have rolled back tax relief on return on capital, that is to say on housing speculators. Let's discuss the concrete things instead of spreading those slightly incoherent and untrue claims about government policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908104552	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908104554	There are now no false claims. So, I am quoting the Prime Minister, and I understand that the rapporteur will have to go into such a slightly longer weaveing answer as to why the Prime Minister was not wrong when she said in May that it would be strange to raise taxes, as the rapporteur now stands and defends to do. Can the rapporteur just specifically tell me what tax increase this government has made to combat unemployment?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908104622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908104623	You can argue if my answer was weird. Well, I replied within the minute I have at my disposal, at least it was not that far, but I replied very precisely that yes, we have made a number of very specific priorities, for example in relation to cigarettes. We did that with the Left. No, the picture that the Left is trying to create of general tax increases is not true. As far as unemployment is concerned, the crucial difference between the government and the Left is that we are ready to use what it takes and invest out of the crisis, instead of saving ourselves out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908104656	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908104658	I would like to return to the very big new budget lines in this proposal, which was also addressed by the Danish People's Party's Financial Rapporteur, namely the EU contribution. Six months ago, after all, we heard the Prime Minister announce that an increased Danish contribution to the EU of 5 billion. kr. I think it was, as I quote, gakgak, and now we have reached the point where the new Danish additional contribution will be 4.5 billion. kr. That's where I'd really like to see Mr. Knox. Christian Rabjerg Madsen could put some words on how he will describe the additional contribution. Is it just crazy, i.e. once crazy, or is one crazy 2.5, so we're a little in a one-and-a-half chat, or where are we in relation to the wasted funds that the government has committed to Brussels? How will Mr. Rabjerg Madsen describes the additional allowance to be paid to Brussels now, compared with what the Prime Minister has previously put out of words in terms of having to pay more to Brussels?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908104802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908104803	In a customary manner, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has praised the rhetorically well thought-out question, but I really believe that it covers a little over what is the important thing we are discussing here. And what is important here is that we had a Prime Minister who very clearly sent the message to the Danes and to the other European capitals that we wanted a greater rebate and that we wanted a budget that took account of the fact that we are getting fewer in the European Union, a budget that takes account of the fact that we have to get away from the old Structural Funds focus and move to a more modern budget for the European Union. Did we get everything we wanted in those negotiations? No, of course we did not, but we had, for example, a substantial Danish discount negotiated home precisely because we had a Prime Minister who was able to get through and who very clearly said from the other European capitals who had some other wishes. And I think the Danes can be very happy with that today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908104903	Sir. Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908104904	Then I'd like to hear how Mr. Rabjerg Madsen expects the Danes to feel this discount. I think we're all happy with discounts. If they call down from the supermarket and say: Hey, there's a discount on milk, you're gonna whistle down to trade. Then you're happy, and then you hoard. The problem is then, of course, if the starting price has risen, so that the discount becomes negative and you still have to get more money out of your pocket. And that's the situation, sir. Rabjerg Madsen. That's why we're going to get back to the thing about what's crazy. For Mr. Rabjerg Madsen sounds trippy when he wants it to look like it's a discount.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908104939	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908104940	Well, it's a discount. In other words, I would like to give a very specific answer to that. Compared to what was set off in the Finance Act to cover EU spending by 2020, our discount has among other things. the additional costs of the MFF are expected to be, on average, 200 million. kr. less in the years 2021-2025. It is money that can be given priority for other purposes. So, in concrete terms, there is a difference; in concrete terms, the Danes feel a difference there. It's a difference, which, among other things, is... has the explanation that the Prime Minister so offensively and skilfully entered into that debate on the budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908105021	Thank you. It's Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908105024	In the spring we saw the importance of time, that is, what it means for our children when there are educators enough to be with them in small groups, and we experienced what school we can do when teachers can teach the students outside in small teams. That's what everyday life should be like. That is why I would like to ask about the Socialists' ambitions, because before the rapporteur said that welfare should not be reduced, but one could also choose to make political decisions that will give us more money in the box, so that we do not just suck about distributing those who are and so that we could actually adopt something that is huge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908105059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908105101	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod for asking one, I think, very, very relevant question. I have a daughter in the crèche myself, so I myself experienced very concretely how the corona ratings were very good standards. That is also why we give priority to welfare in our proposal. That is also the reason why we, among other things, are doing so. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. It is, after all, priorities that lie on top of the fact that in the municipal agreements we are following the demographic move. So we have some agreements with the municipalities, which lay the foundations for welfare, and then we have put on top of it so that we get better norms. Then we are asked how to ensure that we can afford it in the future too. There I think I will return to some of what I have said a few times, namely that the greatest threat to reducing the room for manoeuvre in the long term is if unemployment is allowed to bite down, and that is why we must invest in combating unemployment now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908105203	Mrs. Lotte Rod, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908105205	But what is the Socialist ambition? I heard earlier in reply to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen that the plan is, like, that it should just go to zero, but it is of course us as politicians who decide where the zero is. Well, either we can just look at the money that's in the box and then distribute it, otherwise we can make some decisions that make us have more money to make proper welfare for. And what I am interested in is that we should get beyond that, that we should do something like this on the individual financial law, where we are taking a little pill, and that we should adopt something that is big instead. For spring showed what it means when we dare to think big and make that investment. So what's the ambition?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908105244	Thank you for that! Then we'll get the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908105246	However, I do not think it can be said that our current financial law is one where you pick a little. I mean, when we set off astronomical 9.2 billion. kr. in a war fund to combat our unemployment...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And that's the ambition. The ambition is that we can continue to lift our welfare society so that our children get better lives out in the institutions that they go to for many people every day.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908105323	Then it's Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908105334	Thank you. When you put forward a financial bill, you can't help but disappoint someone. I think we can all agree on that, but I just don't think anyone expected that it was the butterflies and the hare, our nature, that should be so disappointed this year when this proposal was presented. Then the rapporteur cannot explain what progress we are making in relation to this very, very serious natural crisis we are facing. I am not talking about money that was set aside last year, but about new initiatives, because we agree that steps must be taken year by year. And where are we reading it in this Finance Act? The crisis is there. Just as there is a corona crisis, is there a massive natural crisis, but where are the answers to the crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908105420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908105421	I very much agree with the questioner that the climate crisis is really being given adequate place in the public debate and that the natural crisis is being given too little space. We are placing on the current Finance Act 200 million. kr. to nature initiatives. These may be areas where wild nature has room to unfold. It could be untouched forest. So it's a step. The next step will be when we present a comprehensive nature plan which will follow up on the very ambitious ideas we made in opposition to our nature. We will not continue to see that the species disappear, that plants that have previously been natives no longer exist in Denmark, and the best thing to do for Danish nature there are many initiatives, but it is two things to give the wild nature more space, and then it is to make untouched forest. These are the two most effective initiatives in terms of restoring nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908105517	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908105518	In these debates on finance, it's always important to keep your tongue straight in your mouth and talk about what's new and what's old of the money that comes in, because you can always do some calculations where you count a whole lot of things together and make it sound really big. On new initiatives, it has to be said that nature is disappointed because the answers are exactly what the rapporteur says, but when are we going to get started? Now the government has wanted to postpone work for a year. We know from the lists of our endangered animals, trees and fungus species that it is worse than it was 10 years ago. Can we afford to wait another year, or will the government also get started with this financial law?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908105600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908105602	I think it must be most fair to say that we are in the process. We set aside money for nature last year. We're in the middle of our national parks. We're gonna make a deposit this year. But, of course, we also have to deal with the fact that the world has been hit by a pandemic, a worldwide health crisis, which means that we have to give serious priority, and that we also have to focus politically on the issues that are the most important: the recovery of the economy, our health situation. And that is why we have said that at a later stage we will come up with our overall nature plan. This does not mean that our ambitions have diminished, and that does not mean that in the meantime we do not spend money. In fact, we are doing so both last year and this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908105642	Then we would like to thank the Socialist rapporteur. Unfortunately, we will not have any more questions, even though there is a string of questions, because we will have to move on to the next rapporteur on the agenda if we are to keep to the timetable. It is my great pleasure to welcome Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908105659	Thank you. In December 2018, the biggest thing that's happened in my life was I became the father of a little girl. When you become a parent, you usually get a lot of cartoons refreshed. Not least during the spring, when the corona virus unfortunately shut down Denmark, I had the pleasure of refreshing my memory in relation to cartoons. I think there are many parents who can nod to recognize that it has been that way. Where it was Gurli Gris who was on the wallpaper in the spring, we have now moved forward to another classic Rasmus Klump. You know the story of him with the red pants with the white polkackers who travel around the world with his friends. Rasmus Klump, Pingo, Beard and Pelle on adventure. Common to the stories about Rasmus Klump is that they end up with the four coming home from their adventures and eating pancakes in the kitchen at Rasmus Klump; pancakes, which Klump's mother, Mrs Klump, is working hard to make. And it must be said that Rasmus, Pingo, Beard and Pelle take away when pancakes are served. Mrs Klump barely has time to serve the pancakes before they are gone, without anyone even considering that the pancakes are not coming on the table by themselves. Sound familiar? At least that has made me think of the government that we have today. Nothing should be left to future generations. It is the future generations who will pay the price that is going to be high for the economy this government is setting up. Denmark is in a very serious situation. When the corona virus hit Denmark in the spring, it was a very serious health crisis that hit us. Thanks to the Danes' efforts during the crisis over the past many months, we have been able to see that fortunately large parts of Denmark have been reopened. It happened because the Danes took responsibility. They took an individual responsibility, which helped to ensure that society is on its way back to normal state. But it was also, fortunately, the result of a large number of parties leading the government taking the necessary initiatives to keep their hands on the Danish economy. For we have to see that thousands of Danes are now left without work and the prospects for the future are bleak. There are also very many Danes who unfortunately find that their work is unlikely to come back. However, there is also reason to start with today, and it is not always my opportunity to sign up for the cooperation that the Left has at least had with the government and other parties here in Parliament on the aid packages that we adopted during the spring. So far, so good. Because when we look into the future, I am not entirely of the opinion that it is only a sign of strong cooperation with the government. I am genuinely concerned about the draft budget presented by the government, which is completely devoid of any response to how we can restore the growth of Danish society. There is nothing in the draft budget to say what will make us richer. Instead of creating lasting growth and new Danish jobs, the government chooses the classic social democratic path, the road that exacerbates the problems. It is raising taxes by billions, which make it more expensive to operate, harder to compete with abroad, and which also means this loss of jobs and less prosperity, which overall means that there will be less money for welfare. Instead of securing more hands and heads for Danish companies, which are the prerequisites for creating new growth and prosperity, the government chooses to withdraw healthy people from the labour market. Instead of showing financial responsibility in a time of crisis, the government chooses to borrow for the future, use rub and stump. The room for manoeuvre that the government I was in left for the Social Democratic Government last summer after the elections is unfortunately now reduced by many billions with a fingertips. I had hoped that the government would take a forward-looking interest in prioritising growth, not least in relation to the challenges we face, on a longer scale. After all, the Socialist rapporteur was very concerned that there were Danes who had lost their jobs, and I very much agree with the Socialist rapporteur on that, so unfortunately too many have done so. That is why we also need to do our utmost to ensure that we now create more jobs and avoid people losing their jobs. That is why we have to say that this is not the way that the Social Democrats have shown us in the draft budget. There are two ways to go: the government is going the way we know, with more tax increases and a poorer society; the Left wants us to go another way. The crisis has left us with many new tasks, but a task is, I think, particularly important for future generations, and it is that Denmark should return to the right course. We must give the Danes the prospect of a brighter future. This is essentially the task which the Left considers most important. And we have ambitions for Denmark. We will be presenting our priorities to the Finance Act 2021 during the autumn. This will be our proposal on how to ensure a green transition that goes hand in hand with growth and new jobs, but not least also initiatives that ensure that more people become part of the working community. We owe it to the many who are not. We also want a tax freeze that ensures calm and security about the Danes' economy and thus also about the Danish companies' economy and which will also help to make more people part of the working community. During the crisis, we have temporarily increased the special deduction for companies' research and development expenditure, the so-called 'f and u' deduction. It has been much discussed whether it was sensible or not. But let me say today that the increase we in the Left think should be made permanent so that we can ensure that Danish companies have an incentive to invest in research and development in the future. This will be wise, and it will also help to ensure the future of Denmark. For the Left will future-proof Denmark. We will ensure that we also have innovative companies in the future that create Danish export successes and that can help to expand some of the strengths where Denmark will certainly be needed in the future. This is not least in relation to green conversion and green technology. I also believe that in many ways the crisis has been an eye-opener in terms of digitisation and the importance of digitisation, both in relation to the individual citizen and also with regard to companies. We believe that digitalisation should be brought into gear. We need to do something more in order to ensure effective digitisation, both for the Danish business community and not least for the many employees who, in the course of the spring and indeed now, unfortunately, in these days experience the need to work from home. There we have to do something more. And what's the answer from the government there? That's why you have to drop the broadband pool. I don't understand. If the crisis has shown us something, it is precisely that good Internet connections throughout Denmark are absolutely crucial. The Left's financial law priorities for 2021 also suggest how we can once again ensure a strict and consistent immigration policy, where we make demands on those who come here. We want a Danish requirement for full cash assistance, so there is a clear incentive to learn the Danish language. We also want to roll back the government's high public services to unemployed immigrants in particular, so there is a greater incentive for them to contribute to the community. And then we also want money to be set aside for a third exit centre, which the government has unfortunately dropped with this financial bill. We need to control the expelled criminal aliens so that we can create security for Danes throughout the country. Finally, we also believe that we need to take a step forward, with the Finance Act, in terms of our priorities, in terms of renewing the public sector, so that we put people ahead of the system. We need to inspire innovation and ensure that quality comes into focus. We must give freedom to choose solutions that suit the individual. Basically, it is about spreading free elections and ensuring that it becomes a genuinely free choice. In the Left, we look forward to and look forward to the forthcoming financial law negotiations. We come up constructively and would like to take part in the dialogue and negotiations that may be with the government, and our hope is that it will be in a slightly different way than it was last year when it turned into a quick cup of coffee for about 20 minutes. We hope that we can do this in a different way. But it takes two to tango... we're happy to invite you to dance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908110718	Thank you. There are some questions for the rapporteur. The first is from sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908110725	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Troels Lund Poulsen for the speech. In particular, I am glad that in the speech we went from Gurli Gris to Rasmus Klump at home with me we are still away trapped in the Gurli Gris universe, and it is becoming somewhat nerve-consuming, so I look forward to it too. I need clarification, and I hope the rapporteur will be able to contribute to that. On the one hand, the rapporteur says that the rapporteur agrees with me that we must combat unemployment; on the other hand, the rapporteur says that the government spends too much money and we are criticised for going to the limit of the budget law. What exactly is the position of the Left here? Is the position of the Left still away from the old-fashioned financial crisis, where tax cuts were granted and cuts were made and the social safety net was reduced, thus dragging the crisis into a long period, or does the Left believe that we should actually put the boilers under fire to save more than 40,000 jobs next year?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908110824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908110827	First of all, I would like to welcome the fact that Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen is still away in the Gurli Gris universe, because it puts many things in place for me in relation to the political discussion I have with Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. So I can feel that when Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen's daughter or son moves on, then we can take the discussion on a more elevated basis. Well, sarcasm aside. We believe that the money you spend should be used sensibly, and that is the problem with the government: the government does not necessarily spend the money very sensibly. I have mentioned here some clear initiatives which we think should be given priority, and these are things that the government does not choose to do. As we have had ample opportunity to discuss in the past, I do not think it is wise that healthy people should now no longer be part of the labour market. I think that's the wrong way to go. It makes Denmark poorer. And then I think that is a sad signal to them, as Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen himself mentioned in his speech Claus and Elise that the government is not doing any more to ensure that unemployment is not going to increase as much as we can see in the economic forecasts. And I think that unfortunately shows that the fight against unemployment is just something the government says but does not do anything about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908110941	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908110942	I almost don't know what to say to the last one, because it's a weird attack. In other words, the government is making use of the war fund flexibility increase public spending in order to create those jobs next year. I simply cannot get out of the rapporteur's answer where he thinks the Left should lie. What are these initiatives? In the past, the Left has proposed a ridiculous and very expensive halving of VAT, which cost around 50 billion. kr., and which was then put in the moth bag, but we do not hear about new initiatives. What are some concrete initiatives designed to create jobs in the short term?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908111024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908111026	First of all, I do not think that the word 'war box', which has been made up, is a very good word. I think it should be called a fund, and so I have also signed that it can be sensible enough if it is used for initiatives linked to the corona for a temporary period. But the truth is, we can't know how this fund is going to work. In relation to all the expenditure that has been mentioned, it is said that this is something that the Corona Fund can contribute. First of all, it is a wrong way to go as it is to use it for lasting public welfare. So says Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, that you cannot understand what the Left wants, but then it has to be because there is something wrong with Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, for we have been involved in holding hands under Danish companies, just like the government, with all the aid packages we have adopted. It has had exactly the same purpose. But when we then criticise the government for not making any progress, it is because the government's Finance Act and this little pamphlet say nothing about what it takes to make Denmark richer. Now I have just mentioned today the f- and un-deductible, which we want to see permanentisation of. This is one of the things that makes Denmark richer. Well, fortunately, that's the way it is, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, that we will have ample opportunity to discuss this here when we present our overall proposal, just as the Social Democracy did when they were in opposition. The difference is that we are putting forward a proposal, so the Social Democrats didn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908111155	We will soon have to get that plexiglass down, or the rapporteurs will have to look at the President sometimes. There are 30 seconds of speaking time in the second round. The next question is Mr. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908111207	Thank you for that and thank you to the Left rapporteur for the speech. It is true that when you look at the title of the Finance Act, it says 'Fear through the crisis together', and it will certainly be a community, because can the rapporteur not confirm that what you are doing now is using the money of the future? You take big loans, you drive all the way to the border. And then the Danish People's Party also very much agrees with the rapporteur that one of them is one of them. Don't do anything with this money, so we're gonna get richer. Investing in the future is sensible, you can do that for borrowed money, but using borrowed money for operation is a dangerous road. Can the rapporteur not confirm that if you look at something like the infrastructure, which actually helps to make Denmark richer and create some growth, you can see nothing about it in the Finance Act? There's no infrastructure. It cannot be seen that there will be any more mobility, and that is why Provinsdanmark, in particular, has been completely abandoned in connection with this financial bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908111259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908111300	Thank you for your comments. Well, you could say that when you look at the project the government made, it's like several generations that are depicted on the front page. Then you think that it is also interested in helping future generations, but that is a very sad help, because it is a big bill that is being left behind. I fully agree with the Danish People's Party that what is happening now is that you borrow for a higher consumption, which makes us poorer. This is absolutely the essence of what this year's Finance Act is all about. It is basically not very difficult. This means that if you talk to your own bank advisor, you cannot simply finance a bank credit in the long run by saying: I think I will get a pay increase. There has to be something concrete in it, and there isn't. That's exactly the problem. What is also sad is that great promises were made, for example. the fact that infrastructure investment would be boosted. After all, there is no shadow of infrastructure investment, and it is worth noting something that can make Denmark richer and also ensure a greater degree of mobility. That is also what the rapporteur, Mr Las Vegas, has said. Ole Birk Olesen, previously mentioned a question, namely that infrastructure investments, which were promised to take place in 2021, are none of them at all. So yes, it is unfortunately a financial law which, both in the short and long term, makes Denmark poorer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908111418	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908111420	Thank you for your answer. If we hold on to what is forward-looking, then the way we have gone to borrow is so that we take up loans up to the 0.5%, that is. that one borrows in addition to the turnover that is in Denmark. In other words, we are running with deficits for a period of time. The repayment profile that you then put in is non-existent. They say that we came from a healthy economy where we didn't owe so much and that we can owe more. That is also true, but what you are doing here is filling up the gap, so that in future situations we can stand in corona, it may be other, it may have used the air that was when you do not at the same time put in a repayment profile, thus bringing down the debt, while also recording the debt. Can the rapporteur not confirm that this cannot be found in the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908111510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908111511	I would like to confirm this, and I would also like to add that what can be seen in the Economic Statement, which is what accompanies the Finance Act, is that the government expects rising interest costs from 2025 onwards, which means that there will be even greater pressure on the Danish economy. That is what the long-term projections are called. But what is basically the saddest thing is that the many initiatives and reforms that have been created and therefore I would also like to use the opportunity today to sign for them. After all, it is the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the Left and other parties that have helped to ensure that we have such a healthy economy that we are able to take out these loans. Those who then spend the money are not concerned at all with recognizing that a healthy economy is needed in order for it to be able to do so. That's exactly the difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908111601	Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908111605	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. The rapporteur said: Denmark is on the right track. I've got the Rasmus Klump song running inside my head now, and it's hard to get out. There is a character in Rasmus Klump, which my sons, when they were smaller, were luckily quite enthusiastic about, and it was Pelle. Because Pelle has a beak that you can pull a lot of things out of, and then he has to help Rasmus and all the other friends solve the problems they sometimes create for themselves. I hope that the rapporteur's party will also help my party with this, because there will be such a need for Denmark to be on the right track, as the rapporteur also said. I am happy to support it, and we have proposed a permanentisation of the 130 per cent, digitalisation, etc. Those are good suggestions. Is this also a real green course that the rapporteur's party stands for? I am specifically concerned that if we wait longer and longer, it will actually only be more expensive and more expensive to achieve the 70-percent target. So when does the rapporteur think we should start negotiations on a climate plan in order to achieve that goal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908111723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908111724	Thank you for your comments. I agree that there is a lot down in that beak, both good and bad things, I think one can say. However, in relation to what, at least in my world, is a completely urgent task now, namely to follow up the broad agreements we made in the spring, about the green transition, we have come into the situation that the agreement we made on the Climate Act is now going to show its strength, because now the government is being forced to present its hand to the Folketing. Who would have thought that? So, with the great ambitions that the current government said they had in the green area, it is quite incredible that we can hardly know how to achieve this goal at 70%, plus that we do not want to discuss it across sectors either. So I am deeply concerned about that, and I think that if we do not do this wisely, we will be making misinvestments because we simply do not get enough CO2 reduction.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908111824	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908111825	I'd like to follow up on that. Because we in the Radical Left believe that it is urgent, as the rapporteur also does, that I hear, but also that it is urgent to set a 2025 target, because that is what ensures action, including during this period of government. I would like to hear the rapporteur about this: will the Left also set a 2025 target quickly? And how much do the Left think we should have reduced by 2025?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908111850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908111851	What is needed, at least, is, and I know the Radical Left too, to signal and also to give priority to the use of the room for manoeuvre in the green transition. It is, after all, a huge disagreement between the government and some of the red parties that says that you can't use the room for manoeuvre on this green transition; that's what we're going to do. And that is why we will be discussing whether there should be a partial target over 2025 in September, and I am, in fact, open to discussing whether it makes sense or not. But it has to be seen in the context of whether we can also have a discussion on all the sectors we have yet to discuss, because the truth is that we are going forward one sector at a time, and that does not make much sense anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908111938	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908111942	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen referred to a comparison with how to manage one's own private economy and talk to the bank advisor etc., and it is a widespread misunderstanding among many that one can compare national economy with private economy. I wouldn't have thought that mr. Troels Lund Poulsen was also in that delusion. Something else I also noticed was in the discussion with DF's rapporteur, and that was this error in relation to what our own budget law is about. Because it is true that when the government goes to its own deficit limit of 0.5%, it is a limit that we in Denmark have set for ourselves. It is, of course, a much tighter interpretation than there is at EU level, and it is also a limit set for what to say in normal times. After all, the message from the European Union is that, if necessary, especially for countries with healthy economies, we could go further than that. However, my question to the rapporteur of the Left is actually that one is so full of criticism that there are too many expenditures in the government's Finance Act, and then I am just curious to hear what in the Left's Finance Bill comes from green initiatives in addition to that with the 130 per cent. etc. What really is going to be on the green agenda in the Left Finance Bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908112116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908112117	Then I think I will reply to Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, President Bech Poulsen). No, Bech-Nielsen. Now you can't argue with the President, but her name is Bech-Nielsen. Then I would like to say that it is perfectly safe for us to discuss this when we present our proposal. We will present our overall financial law priorities here in October. However, there will also be a priority for the green transition, just as there were last year's financial proposals on our part, in which we also set aside an economic space to give priority to the green transition. It does not come without the courage to spend money on the green switch. Now I have not seen that the SF has presented a proposal yet, but I will have such ample opportunity to discuss this with the questioner, because we are going to spend money from our common welfare for the green transition. The amount will then be discussed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908112210	Well, I must agree with the rapporteur that it is Bech-Nielsen. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908112214	Yes, I'm sorry it's a very difficult situation! Thank you for that answer. After all, it is a fundamental disagreement that we have whether we should use the room for manoeuvre for welfare or the green transition. One thing I have noticed, however, is that the Left is now also agreeing to the new normal, namely that the demographic deficit is being covered. In any case, I have seen in all the accounts of what is left of the room, that you take from DI to CEPOS, or who else makes the accounts • automatically the demographic move when you look at what is left of the room. And I have also heard the rapporteur of the Left. This is interesting because it means that the new normal in Danish politics is that of course you automatically cover the demographic deficit. And if you do, you cannot at the same time use the money for the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908112306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908112306-2	Well, for me, it's not a either-or-it's a boat-and-a-boat when you have to make a green switch. And I do not understand why the SF will not give priority to the room for manoeuvre for the green transition, that is to say that it should only go through taxes and levies. It is, of course, a fundamental disagreement that we have with each other. How we in the Left will then present our financial law priorities, I think it makes better sense for us to discuss this when it has happened. We are fully committed to having both a strong welfare society, but also to doing something more in relation to some of the priorities that I have spoken about today • that we want to create better conditions for making ourselves richer. But I think it is easy to think together in an intelligent model, and we have to see if we agree with the SF on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908112355	Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908112359	It is true that we need money for the green transition and that we need money for the restoration of welfare. One of the reasons for this is that the blue governments that we had between 2015 and 2019 agreed tax reductions, which will cost 21.7 billion each year. kr. Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen talks a lot about sending the bill to future generations. Isn't that exactly what the Left did? The money has been emptied and tax relief has been granted, and now we are in a situation where there is no means of restoring welfare and guaranteeing the green transition. Can the rapporteur not simply confirm that if the tax incentives agreed between 2015 and 2019 had not been implemented, we would have had 21.7 billion. kr. more in the room for manoeuvre, which could have been used to restore welfare and invest in the green transition?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908112500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908112502	Well, that's no way to make it up to you, sir. Rune Lund. We were able to see here a short time ago when the government presented their draft Finance Bill that the Minister for Finance almost literally, I think, said that we had a very solid economy when we went into the Corona crisis. I don't think the Minister of Finance said that was his profit alone. I do not think he had time to elaborate that there had actually been some before him, but there has been. There have been changing governments, including Helle Thorning-Schmidt and Bjarne Corydon, who did not all take initiatives supported by Enhedslisten. However, these were initiatives which we also helped to support in a long way, in other words what was economically sensible. So the fact that during our reign from 2015 to 2019 we made intelligent tax reductions has helped to make this society, among other things. More competitive. There is also a broad majority in favour of it, but let it be. We left an historically low level of unemployment when we left government offices. And it has helped to ensure a super-healthy economy, so that is what is basically lacking, namely that we had a fantastic solid economic foundation, which we passed on to the current government and which, unfortunately, seems to start to crumble. And that's why we're so worried about the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908112626	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908112627	However, what I am pointing out is that the lasting impact of the tax reductions agreed in 2015-2019 under the Blue Government is 21.7 billion. kr. annual. Now the Left is here today saying that there is not enough money and there needs to be more money for everything. Well, you've emptied the box yourself! What is the problem of the Social Democratic Party is that they do not want to break up with the economic policy pursued by the previous government, which consistently emptied the treasury of tax reliefs and made a housing tax agreement that would cost billions of dollars, made tax reliefs for billions of dollars and tried to pretend that there was enough money for welfare. We can see that the tax burden is falling over the years to come, so if we have blue governments that just keep lowering taxes, then there is no money for restoring welfare and for the green transition, and we have a social democratic government that will not be prepared to make that recovery seriously, that is where the problem is. But the rapporteur must admit that 21.7 billion is missing. kr. in the box, which would have been there if the blue governments that were in 2015-2019 had not followed the policy pursued.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908112731	You have 30 seconds for your second question, sir. Rune Lund. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908112735	Thank you. So, first of all, I think that we can see a little disagreement about whose money it is, after all, the citizens' money we administer. After all, it is not the case that citizens, if you may say so, are not entitled to their money. We think it is a good idea for citizens and companies to have as much resources as possible; that is what ideologically speaking is the difference between the Left and the Enhedslisten. I am delighted that when we left government offices a year ago, we had a super healthy economy with a very, very low level of unemployment and a very, very strong competitiveness vis-à-vis abroad, which made us see the number of private jobs growing through the time we had the power of government. That is exactly what makes it possible for us to go out and borrow the massive amounts of money needed at the present time. I believe that we must pay tribute to Enhedslisten that the Enhedslisten has not been involved in any of the reforms that have really made Denmark so successful in raising loans, because we have been able to do so at a very advantageous level because our economy has been so solid. All these reforms have been characterised by the fact that Enhedslisten has been outside; but of course the Enhedslisten has helped to translate part of the money this spring without then signing up for the efforts that some of us parties have made to provide the necessary room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908112859	Sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908112902	Now I am new as a financial rapporteur here, so it may be that I have overlooked something in the draft budget here. After all, it is several telephone books thick. But when I read it through, I have not really stumbled upon anything that, in substance, contributes to business beyond a little relief from the taxes on coffee and that area. But if we then dive into the war box and it's really just a credit card, because it's borrowed money I'm even harder to find something that actually gives a hand to business; it's more like a Mary Poppins bag that the government can pull all the things and stuff out of. So I would really like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur has come across just one step in the war fund which actually contributes to business, that is, something that will create greater room for manoeuvre, something that will make Denmark richer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908112955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908112955-2	No, I must be guilty of the Conservative rapporteur's reply and say that I have not succeeded in doing so either. Even in the debates that I have had with Socialist MEPs, I have not managed to find out what exactly is of effect in relation to the money that has been set aside. It is quite true that it is borrowed money. That is exactly what you have to deal with. And that does not have a lasting effect, because it is something that should only apply in 2021. So, I very much agree with the Conservative Financial Rapporteur... the Socialist Financial Rapporteur... I do not agree very much with the Conservative Financial Rapporteur... but I do agree with the Conservative Financial Rapporteur, in relation to what actually is of effect? Nobody knows. And that is something that is not going to have a lasting effect; that is exactly what lies in the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908113044	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908113045	Thank you. And that is what worries us, because you hear a government that says over and over again, at least, and that is a little in line with the question that Mrs Sophie Løhde raised earlier, namely in relation to entrepreneurs; the government wants a lot, but does the opposite. And we can also say in relation to family businesses: the government says the right thing, but does the opposite. something as simple as that the measures must be something that creates jobs and something that does not make a public sector that is already large and heavy, even bigger and heavier, so that we can at least push the government just about in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908113132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908113133	Well, I would like to give the undertaking that what it takes for us to see, at least, that we can make agreements with the government in the economic field and also in relation to the Finance Act is that we must make Denmark richer; we must make the cake bigger. That's exactly what we can see there's no plan for right now. That is also what much of my speech has gone on here today, namely that we must have an ambition for Denmark to become richer and how can we do so? And I know there that we share a large number of the same ideas and suggestions on how we can make Denmark richer, also for the benefit of those people who need a job and who, because of the crisis here, have lost their jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908113210	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908113212	Thank you. The left has the slogan that it must not be more expensive to be a Dane. Although I think it is a bit unambitious in a country with the world's second highest tax burden, let it be. You have that slogan, and this government has so far raised the tax by 8.4 billion. kr., and overall it has now been planned to increase by 12.7 billion. kr. The rapporteur and I know very well that when you impose increased costs and taxes on business, it is passed on to citizens and consumers. They're the ones who're gonna pay the bill. Then the rapporteur of the Left could not explain to me which of these tax increases the Left has added votes and whether there are any of the planned tax increases that the Social Democratic Party is going to add to the vote?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908113303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908113304	In other words, what we are standing at is a tax stop. If there are tax gaps to be closed, we can do so, according to the tax freeze we have, but we do not plan to legitimise a social democratic policy which aims to increase taxes and levies. It is quite true that taxes have increased considerably here during the first year under the government, and that is almost all things we have been vertically opposed to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908113331	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908113333	The fact is that the Left has voted in favour of a number of tax increases, both on cigarettes and to banks. There was also a municipal compensatory reform, which means that there are municipalities out there that are now raising the tax. That makes me curious. Since we are talking about car taxation, there has been a new report on it. Can the rapporteur reassure the Danish drivers out there that the Left will not vote that it will be more expensive for drivers that it will be more expensive for a Danish family of children to have a car in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908113410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908113410-2	Now I think I'm just gonna correct an error, for sir. After all, Lars Boje Mathiesen was explaining the compensation reform and that we have voted on it. But we have actually helped to ensure that the compensatory reform was a sensible result in relation to what was put on the table, which was otherwise a very, very large increase in taxes to the Danes. We had a fight with that one. In relation to car taxation, I would like to say that this is a difficult matter and we will now be spending the next few days getting to grips with the various things that Anders Eldrup has proposed as President of the Commission. But it is clear that if you are going to change car taxes, you have to ensure that it does not become a hidden tax screw for Danish society; that goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908113500	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908113501	Thank you. Now we just had the finance rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party, Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, on the platform before. After all, he was elected in Kolding, which is why I asked him how it could be that he has gone around the election campaign and said that if you voted for him and the Social Democratic Party, the motorway crossing at Kolding in 2021 would be expanded, and then there will be a Finance Act where there is no crown set aside for that purpose. You and me, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen and I are both elected in East Jutland, and the experience I had there was that the Social Democratic MPs and candidates, including the current Finance Minister, said they would also expand the East Jutland motorway with start in 2021, just as the blue parties would. Did Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen got another impression from the election campaign in East Jutland? Did Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen got the impression that the Social Democracy in the election campaign who said: No, no, it is far too early to start expanding the East Jutland motorway by 2021; we will only do so later?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908113556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908113557	No, actually, I didn't get that impression. On the contrary, I got the same impression as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, namely that it was very necessary that there should be an extension of the E45. But I remember back to an election campaign in 2011, when the current Finance Minister promised an Kattegat connection, and it never happened. So I thought that one thing was, Nicolai Wammen said that he supported the E45, but I thought that it might be the same as that in 2011 with the Kattegat connection: that when you get the government power if it happened, and it didn't happen. So I'm not that shocked, but I understand that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is shocked.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908113633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908113635	I mean, I get shocked every time it happens. It has happened very often that the Social Democratic Party goes to the polls on some things, they will then they would retain the post-retirement wage under Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, and then they would spend a lot of money with a Fair Solution... but if they get the government, they won't anyway. And this time the big breach is evident that they wanted to set up the same transport investment as we wanted, but then they won't do it at all. Do you think that the voters in East Jutland, where Mr. Nicolai Wammen is set up, was aware that they couldn't count on those words? Or do you think they actually voted for sir? Nicolai Wammen, because they thought: Then we also get an extension of the E45 with start in 2021?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908113718	You're a nice word, but here it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908113726	In fact, the last one here seems to me to be one of the most difficult questions, i.e. the question that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen asks: What is the reason for voting for Mr Olesen? Nicolai Wammen? I'm not in a position to answer that. But I am quite convinced that some have voted for Mr. Nicolai Wammen from the point of view that the Social Democratic Party had a plan before the elections that the infrastructure should be expanded, including in East Jutland, which was, as it were, left in 2011. You have to remember that it is exactly the same discussion; then suddenly it happened that when you got the government, you had to make a train bridge over Vejle Fjord, a project of madness for many billions of dollars that no one would use. So, I guess you were aware that you didn't get the real thing. But there are some who have done it anyway, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908113813	Sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908113815	Thank you. Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen brought Rasmus Klump into the picture; he is very much at sea. And I would also like to say that I really believe that many people have the impression that it is sailing something for the Left at the moment, and it is absolutely necessary to say that it is doing so in economic policy too. It's not connected at all to what Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen presents to Parliament in the debate that is here today. It criticises the government for what is a policy, that is to say to go as far as the budgetary law to keep its hands on employment, and at the same time it says that the government is borrowing too much money and is doing too little to combat unemployment. I mean, it doesn't add up at all. And if there is to be any consequence and coherence anyway, as I shall try to deduce from it, it must be that the Left is willing to accept that there will not be as many people in work next year because one is opposed to the government going to the edge of the budget law and spending the money to benefit the economy or what? Does the Left agree that we should go to the framework of the budget law and stimulate the economy as much as we can within that framework?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908113915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908113916	I'm standing here with a planche from Mr. Simpson. Jesper Petersen's colleague, Mr. Peter Hummelgaard, who was reviewed last week, and here we can see that unemployment in 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023 and 2024 is going to be above the level it was before corona, well above the level that we left when we left government offices. So that's exactly what the scandal is. There is nothing at all in relation to what the Left thinks, as Mr. Jesper Petersen may be in doubt. I understand, sir. Jesper Petersen would like to throw a smoke screen all over things, but the Left believes that this Finance Act is devoid of growth initiatives. I don't see a single growth initiative in this pamphlet that the government has published rather the opposite. So we think you should spend the money you spend in a more sensible way. For example: There is an early withdrawal; I do not think it makes sense; the Left does not think it makes sense to spend 2 billion. kr. in 2022 on early retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908114017	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908114019	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen does not really answer the question in concrete terms, and I still do not think that what the Left says is connected. In fact, it's perhaps more of a Peter Pooh moment we're dealing with here. What Peter Pooh has to defend himself with before Piglet is: It was wise when it was inside my head, but then something happened on the way out. After all, unemployment is going to go down because we are investing. 46,000 more people are going to have a job next year because of the government's economic policy to some extent after agreements with the Left, but one is apparently opposed to that. We are obviously opposed to stimulating the economy, going to the edge of the budget law, in order to benefit employment and get more people into work or what? The chance is there again. Does the Left agree that we need to use the possibilities fully within the budget law to stimulate the economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908114111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908114113	I haven't come to Peter Pooh yet in relation to my daughter, so I can't move down that road yet, but I'll be looking forward to taking a Peter Pooh discussion with Mr. Jesper Petersen. What I can see, sir. Jesper Petersen, is that in the forecast that was presented there are 146,000 people who stand to be without a job here by 2020, so it is not the case that 46,000 more people are going to work. It says it will be 138,000 people in 2021 and 125,000 in 2023. Is that reasonable? I do not think it is, but then I recognise that the Social Democrats would like unemployment to be so high. I think we should do more to make it lower.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908114200	We'll take another Social Democrat. Sir. Jens Joel, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908114204	Thank you. We are sticking to the lead, because the most important thing is to combat unemployment. Social democracy, the government, has put forward a proposal and an economic policy which means 46,000 more in work. What is the figure in the Left's draft Finance Bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908114223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908114224	I have not been able to see in the government's draft Finance Bill what that means, compared to how many people will be in employment on the basis of the government's draft Finance Bill. You can't tell. What I can see is that after 4-5 years unemployment is still going to be above the level it was when we handed over government power. I do not see that it is ambitious for a social democratic government that even today, with its financial rapporteur, is talking about the terribleness of people losing their jobs. I fully agree with the Socialist financial rapporteur on this, but what exactly is being done? Is it true that you have to spend five years before you are back at the level at which it was when we left government to the government? I think that is basically unambitious.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908114313	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908114314	After all, we are hit by a very, very serious international crisis, and the last time we were, it took ten years before the Left got us back on track. But please try to answer the question, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen. After all, it is the Ministry of Finance who has calculated that the overall economic policy of the government will contribute to the fact that next year we will have 46 000 more people in employment than if we did not do the things we have set out to do. What is the employment impact of the proposals made by the Left next year?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908114345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908114346	After all, we have not presented our proposals yet, and I think Mr. Jens Joel as chairman of the Finance Committee knows that when you have had a week to look at the government's draft budget, it seems OK that, as an opposition, you have just suffered longer. But Mr. Jens Joel is asking for what we're talking about. We are behind virtually all the aid packages that have been made, I actually think. I would like to see the last two weeks of holiday money paid out to the public. That would be a very good economic boost, but we know that this is an initiative which, unfortunately, the Social Democrats do not support. The government chooses not to think that the Danes should receive the last 2 weeks of holiday money. I think that's sad.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908114433	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908114436	Thank you, President. I understand that you need to be quite well versed in modern children's literature to be a financial rapporteur in this country. I'm sorry to say I'm not. I can't remember when I've read Rasmus Klump or Peter Pooh or even heard of a pig named Gurli. But what I'm pretty sure is that all these stories end well, and there are some people out there in Danish society for whom it doesn't always end well, among other things. a part of our elderly people who live in nursing homes where they do not have the necessary care, love, dignity. Unfortunately, there have been quite a lot of horrifying examples of this recently. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party would like to be inspired by the proposal that has come from the children's area with minimum standards, saying that we simply want minimum standards in nursing homes, so that we are sure that all those who have worked and dragged to create the values that the Finance Act generously distributes will also receive a dignified farewell. Can we expect the Left to back us on the issue of minimum standards in nursing homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908114548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908114549	I do not intend to introduce minimum standards for the elderly. I think much needs to be done, and unfortunately there have been examples, even in Aarhus, where I even believe that the person responsible for the area was the Danish People's Party. It was a DF Councilman who was responsible for a sad, sad story. I am not saying that it is her responsibility alone, but there is a need for political leadership, and there is also a need for responsibility in the municipality when something like this happens. There have also been examples in relation to Randers and other municipalities. On the contrary, we believe that what is needed is to give greater freedom to user boards and ensure a greater degree of quality, plus to combine it with what I also believe the Danish People's Party agrees with in many ways, in other words to strengthen the free choice that I also said something about in my speech, so to give people a real freedom of choice. Because what is the problem is that there are some who are locked in not being able, for example. change from one institution to another. That is why we will not support the need to deliver minimum standards in the area of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908114656	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908114658	I must say that I think it is a shame because many of the people who are in this situation are not in a position to make a free choice. In other words, if you are demented and just are not properly treated, then you are totally dependent on someone who has the heart, but also on the resources, and Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen must be aware that e.g. Night shifts in many places around the country's municipalities are deeply understaffed. This means that you are responsible for many people who may want to go to the bathroom, maybe they want to change a diaper or maybe just want a glass of water or a little word to go to sleep, and there I actually think it is a pity that we cannot count on the Left. Then you can stand and play some monkey game about who is responsible, and I can say that if the Danish People's Party had got its wishes for the budget through in Aarhus Municipality's budget negotiations, then I think it would have looked different. But we can take that in a different context. I just note with regret that the Left is not concerned with securing the same minimum standards on staff, on staffing, in our nursing homes as others are in the children's institutions, and then I hope that we can meet each other in this area. I think it would be a beautiful area where we bourgeois parties could be brothers in thanking those who have fought their whole lives to build up the society that we are all happy about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908114800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908114802	But you can have different views on how to give the older citizen the best care. We do not agree on that. The same is true in the field of children. Are we sure that minimum standards are so complete that the children are well? Not at all. It is also a question of whether there are trained staff or are there teachers present? Are there people who have management experience? Is there leadership? Last year in Copenhagen we saw horrifying pictures of young children, where it was not a resource issue, at least not only, but where it was about management and why it was not intervened. So for us, this is a discussion about more than minimum standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908114844	Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908114847	Actually, I think it's a bit of a pity for Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt, for think what he missed. Therefore, I would like to contribute to the formation, because one of the particularly good Rasmus Klump stories is the one where he arrives in Seven Overland, where all the people sleep, because Kime Karl is the one who is responsible for calling people up after dinner sleep himself has fallen asleep, and then it is good that the friends come. In the same way, I feel a little bit about the Socialists now, because they went to the polls that we should stop the savings on education and then look up the draft budget and see that training savings have crept in. That is why I would like to ask the Left whether the Left will be involved in awakening the Social Democrats, or what exactly is the position of the Left on the educational savings that the government is proposing?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908114931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908114932	The Minister for Finance is whispering something from down here that I simply will not reproduce to the public. That wouldn't be fair. But what he said was exciting and it was nothing about the Radical Left. I think he signed for the question. I think the radical questioner is absolutely right. It is totally hypocritical that we have been criticizing what the previous government did and then, when we get the power of government, we are doing exactly the same thing ourselves. I am not surprised or shocked, because this is how I have experienced the social democracy before. But it is not a flower that has grown in our garden that one among other things. was supposed to make that funding in relation to the police. We have also said to the government that we do not think that the way in which the draft has financed a new police settlement is sensible. So this is not something in which we should be expected to actively support the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908115028	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908115029	Okay, so you don't actively support the government. Can I understand the fact that the Left, together with the Radical Left, will be active when it comes to getting rid of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908115040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908115041	We are generally active in many areas together with the Radicals, so if this can also be a field where we can link the money to a more sensible place, I will not be opposed to it. After all, however, I do not think I should answer on behalf of the Social Democrats. I think there would be an exciting response from me, but hypocrisy must therefore be talked about with the Social Democrats and the Socialist Finance Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908115108	That's how we're gonna take a break for dinner. 8:00 p.m. 12. It is my opinion that it would be quite a pity for the Danish People's Party to have half a rapporteur's speech delivered before the dinner break, and therefore I would suggest that if there is any fighting force left with Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen that we take a question or two more instead of starting at the Danish People's Party. Could that be an idea? The President shall decide.' Then we'll take a question or two more. The next is a Social Democrat, Mr. Malte Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908115136	Thank you very much. In the financial crisis around 2008, which we have sometimes reversed, the Left's response was large, lasting, unfunded tax cuts, and the gap that arose in the treasury was later to be filled up, it turned out, by the weakest in this society. Could I lure the rapporteur of the Left to remind us or highlight the figure for the unemployed that emerged after the financial crisis when the VK government presented the recovery package in 2010?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908115212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908115213	No, I have to say that I do not have all the figures entirely present, and this question is also one that has been raised earlier in the debate. I had the pleasure of sitting in the government at that time, and I think that what is important to note is that the financial crisis hit the whole world and hit Denmark. What is probably the difference between the financial crisis and the situation we are in now is that this time you have a responsible opposition that actually takes part in making agreements with the government. After all, during the financial crisis, we had parties that did not want to help solve common social responsibility. I find that sad, especially that the Social Democrats would not be involved at the time. The position of SF and other parties was perhaps more natural at the stage they were in at the time. But the big difference is who shows social responsibility and actually offers itself. That is what the Left is doing, because we think it is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908115316	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908115318	Well, I kind of agree with that. As then, it was a worldwide crisis. I also see the Corona crisis as today. And I guess you could say that there are two different ways to deal with this. One is the one that was followed last and then the model we are presenting now. I can inform the rapporteur that more than 6%. of the workforce was vacant when the Left presented the recovery package and that by that time the number of unemployed had increased by almost 100,000 in 2008. It was not until 2013 that unemployment really began to fall again. Those who lost their jobs during the financial crisis still had 10 years after a lower wage income and less employment than other employees. Does the Left really believe that it is again those who are at the top of the labour market who have to pay the bill for the crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908115405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908115406	No, we do not think so, and that is also why we think it is so sad that this government wants to put up with 146 000 people, 138 000 people, 125 000 people, 119 000 people over the coming years being excluded from the labour market. I do not really think that this is very much a matter of solidarity. I think it's the wrong signal to send. I think there is a need for initiatives to prevent so many people from being outside the working community. It is, of course, in that the great disagreement is between the Social Democrats and the Left, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908115438	The last questioner will then be Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908115442	Before the summer holidays, the Left was part of the climate agreement in which it was decided to start work on achieving a uniform CO2 level. In this context, I would like to hear from Troels Lund Poulsen whether it is also the Left's view that agriculture should pay a higher tax as a result of their emissions of climate gases.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908115504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908115505	In other words, there were probably two parties who strongly argued that a proposal should be made for a green tax reform, and that was the Radical Left, and that was the Left. Then I note that the SF also shares that view. How and how the sectors are to contribute is, of course, one of the things we are going to discuss now. I miss getting an overview of exactly what the cost price is for the various industries. In a situation where jobs are now being discussed, I think it is very important to also think about how we ensure that the green transition does not cost jobs but can create jobs. So I do not have the final form of how and how the future division between sectors, which we will be discussing this autumn, will be. But having said that, it is clear that 70% cannot be achieved without all sectors contributing. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908115558	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908115600	One thing, of course, is that all sectors must contribute to achieving the objectives of the Climate Act, of which the Left itself is also a part. If the Climate Partnership for the Food and Agriculture sector is to come up with a proposal for what it will cost to convert agriculture, it will be 25 billion. kr. In this context, I would just like to hear from the Left: should taxpayers pay for it over our scope for welfare, or should the taxes on CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20200908115627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908115628	For me, room for manoeuvre is also to give priority to the green transition. That is what I think is so crazy: that SF does not believe that room for manoeuvre is about a green transition. I can't believe it. It's fine that you want to discuss more money for welfare, but what's the point of getting more money for welfare if this planet melts down? Then you can't use them for anything. So in my optics SF should, if anyone, be concerned that the economic space should go for a significant investment in a green transition. I may have misunderstood, but I don't think so. Who is to contribute and how to contribute, of course, we will be discussing. For us, it is essential that all sectors contribute. How to do it, yes, it has to, among other things. We must continue to have agricultural production in Denmark, and we must also have more jobs in Denmark if it is up to the Left. We do not think we should go for a particular profession if that means that thousands of people lose their jobs because production moves to another country. That doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908115734	Thank you, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen for today's efforts. We are now taking a lunch break until 8:00 a.m. 13.00, where we meet fresh and well prepared to hear Mr. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party's rapporteur speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908130035	The sitting is resumed. The first speaker is Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908130051	Thank you for that, President. Then we stand here with the budget bill for 2021, fear through the crisis jointly, and it must at least be said that the last of the sentence, that is to say, in the community, bears that mark. For it is the Community and it is the future that will pay for the draft budget that has been put forward. That is how we look at it, that you go all the way to the limit in terms of borrowing, and that means, of course, that we can ask: is what you do now and spend the money on, then something that makes Denmark richer? Is it something that makes us get through the crisis better, or are we just paying off the operation that has been decided? One can certainly see that one of the very large items of expenditure that is new is on the EU accounts, and that is 4.5 billion. kr. more to the EU. And how do you pay it? That's what you pay for, for example. by borrowing. We just have to say from the point of view of the Danish People's Party that it is a dangerous road to pay off operations by borrowing. Borrowing is not a dangerous road. That can be very sensible. It is also very sensible to run an expansive economy when faced with a crisis situation, and it is also right that we should have a great deal of focus on how unemployment looks. Then when we go down and look at the Finance Act, what else have we had? If you look at the areas as such, including the small ones, because that is also what you have to do in a Finance Act, especially when the Finance Act comes from a one-party government, then it is not only the government's proposals that have been negotiated, then it is the Social Democracy's proposal on how to move Denmark forward and how to get Denmark into 2021. We have all heard this many times: we are on a very strong green mandate. That's what the voters wanted. When you look at the Finance Act, there's not much green in it. Some of the things we have stumbled upon may be the little things, but these are actually some of the things that really bear something. If you take something like the scrapping scheme for diesel cars, we will have an enormous amount of environment and we will have a lot of climate for almost no money. But what has been chosen by the government? The scheme has been scrapped. This means that old diesel cars can continue to drive. There's no incentive to stop driving them. We simply do not understand it. You could also look at another thing that's filled a lot, and that's the particle contamination. For a number of years we have had a scheme to scrap old wood-burning furnaces which are not good for the environment and which, in fact, are not very good for the population either, because there is so much particulate pollution. What's the government doing? What does the Social Democratic Party want? They do not want to scrap old wood stoves, but choose to say that this scheme scraps them, so there is no incentive for future conversion of their wood stove into something that is more environmentally friendly, for the benefit of the environment, and for the benefit of those citizens who are in one's vicinity. It is also the small things that are shown in a Finance Act: what kind of party are you? What do you want? Social democracy clearly shows that it is obviously not what matters about the environment and climate. At least you will not pay for it, even if it is the small amounts. Another thing that has filled a lot here over the spring and summer is, of course, among other things. I would like to say on a very, very sad note. After all, I think we all saw the broadcast on TV 2 where we could see that some citizens were certainly not treated with dignity, and we should say straight away that it is not just about money. It is also about money, but indeed it is also about management, it is about morality, and it is also about what kind of recruitment basis we have and what kind of job you have when you work with other people. Whether it is in the care of the elderly or it is in the day care institution or it is in the primary school, it doesn't matter. One has a very, very special responsibility when working with people and a very special responsibility when working with people who have difficulty expressing themselves and who have such a great need for care as they have in the care of the elderly. That is why we in the Danish People's Party were very happy when we saw that the minister in the area went out and said that it was too bad that a social democratic government could not live with the fact that now there was a revolution in this area, that something really had to happen now, both in relation to management, but also in relation to economics. When we look at the Finance Act, we can see that you're yes, it's sad to say it's $200 million. kr. off. After all, we are 98 municipalities in Denmark, so if you just distribute them in such an equal way according to municipalities, then you can figure out that this is not moving anything, and where is the attitude? That's what a finance bill can do. After all, a financial law can also influence attitudes, and we have to say on the part of the Danish People's Party that we think there is a need for a revolution in the area of the elderly. We think that there is a need to have a strong dialogue with the municipalities on how they run the welfare areas, both in relation to the economy, but indeed also in relation to the attitude. When we look further at the economy, we see that it is not only the borrowed money that goes to the EU contribution of the 4.5 billion. kr., because it is also the case that the EU has created an EU recovery fund. It is a fairly large fund to lift up the countries of eastern and southern Europe in the European Union and it is EUR 5.580 billion. kr. That's quite a lot of money. In fact, when Denmark went to the negotiations, it was said that the 4.5 billion. kr. was crazy, and that we would not stand up for the fact that it was the Danes who would have to pay for it if things went wrong in South and Eastern Europe because they have not figured out how to make the reforms that we have made in Denmark. Despite this, Denmark in the Community and in the future is now liable for some 10 billion. kr. of the money that is being distributed in southern and eastern Europe. So it's the money of the future this bill spends, it doesn't just spend the money that's in the box. After all, the Minister for Finance said so when it was presented: we are going straight to the limit, we are doing what is possible and we are now running with deficits in 2021. You've set 1.5 billion. kr. I am not in a position to say anything about this. I would like to say that if it were the Danish People's Party that was the support party, we would have been very upset about this situation, where we have now read this financial bill. But now we have to see how things are going. We also want to be constructive and to be part of it. If we just look at last year's Finance Act, that is, this Financial Act for 2020, we see that it actually happened that last year alone, at the request of the Radicals, expenditure in the field of foreigners increased by 700 million. kr., among others. because it made it more attractive for foreign citizens to come to Denmark and become part of the benefit system, and because it opened up our welfare society to foreign citizens who have not as a starting point contributed to the Danish community. So 1.5 billion. kr. If the Radicals have the same approach this year as they had last year, that is to say 700 million, they can be used quickly. kr. We must use it to ease the policy of foreigners, and if the Social Democratic Party does so, the policy of foreigners will be relaxed. That's what we saw. Mette Frederiksen said: We want to run a tight immigration policy. But apparently not tighter than the Radicals want it. Another thing that puzzles us a little is education, because we would really think that, when we are in a time of crisis, it was what would fill a great deal. If we take just one area, namely primary school, we are actually still standing away in a situation where about 15%. of those leaving primary school have not received 02 plus 02. What does that mean? This means that we actually have quite a few young people who do not have the skills to take an upper secondary education. That's exactly when we're in this situation, you're supposed to look at how we can make the cake bigger. If we could only reduce it by a few percent, we would have a much, much larger recruitment basis, we would have far, much greater assurance that more young people would become self-supporting when they grew up, instead of growing up on transfer income. Another thing that we are completely incomprehensible about is not being involved, both in relation to what was said in the election campaign, but also in relation to what was said last year after the government was given power of government, is the infrastructure. I remember very well that we had a Transport Minister, Benny Engelbrecht, who said: in a few moments, negotiations will be convened and we will look at how we can create a new infrastructure plan. It was the case that the previous government and the Danish People's Party had made a plan to make Denmark more coherent. What is infrastructure capable of? Infrastructure can create growth, infrastructure can make us richer. There are, in fact, a great many projects in the plan of the former Blue Government and the Danish People's Party, which create growth throughout Denmark. If you're going to take a little thing, you can take Route 54, Næstved-Rønnede, who has been lying for many years. We could see that the Socialists went out locally at least and said that it would have a priority and that it was one of the projects that would be carried out. But now we are standing here with the budget bill for 2021, which is designed solely by the Social Democrat Party, but yet it is not included. It must be because we do not give priority to what was said in the election campaign; we do not give priority to it when we have gained power. You can't read it any other way. Another thing that is quite exciting in relation to the Finance Act is the war fund: the 9.2 billion. kr., which has been borrowed up to a lump sum, not an operating amount in the fund. I have heard in these few days, after the Finance Act has been presented, that it should cover everything. I just want to say that there are many things that have become very, very cheap: in the future we can cover that we can all be vaccinated. You can cover the green switch. You can make Denmark richer. We can do everything for 9.2 billion. kr. of borrowed money. Listen, it's a blue light. The 9.2 billion. kr. We think it is sensible to put it in the box, but remember to save it for when the vaccine arrives. For who is it in here who will say no to giving a vaccine to the Danes when it comes? And does anyone in here know the price of this vaccine when it comes? There isn't. Then the 9.2 billion. kr. We do not expect to be available for free play for all things in the world. There really is only 1.5 billion. kr. to be negotiated. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908131127	Thank you. The first is sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908131131	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Now the rapporteur said that there were some small things, as I think the rapporteur said and mentioned some of the minor initiatives in the Finance Act, but some of what I think is very big and quite crucial, and as the Financial Rapporteur, because he is both a good financial rapporteur, but indeed also a municipal politician, is well aware, is that one of the big things on this Finance Act and, incidentally, on the two previous municipal agreements is covering the demographic trait, so that there will be more money when there are more children and older people. The Danish People's Party has traditionally defended the bourgeois welfare, so I would really just like to ask the rapporteur if it is not absolutely necessary from the point of view of the Danish People's Party and therefore an important break-up that we now actually commit ourselves to covering the demographic trait and keeping up with when there are more children and older people.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908131224	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908131225	Yes, that is a good thing, but I would like to stick to what the Minister said, namely that we should make a revolution. That is what we want to do, because what we have seen in the pictures from the care of the elderly, where it says three and agrees that they should not provide a citizen's service, does not get any better by the fact that there are four people looking at the citizen and saying that they will not provide the service to the citizen to whom the citizen is entitled. That is why we are simply facing a challenge and either it is a management problem or it is a recruitment problem, and it is also an economic problem that we have. We all know about the fact that at a care center at night there may be 40 or 50 bedridden citizens, and then there may be only one at work. It presents some pretty big challenges when you're inside one, if someone else needs help during the night hours. So there are some pretty big challenges in relation to the way that will deliver our welfare in the municipalities, and we also have to assume that responsibility inside the Folketing, and this is certainly not done with this Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908131319	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908131321	We are very happy to discuss how to ensure the quality of care for the elderly, but I think we agree that it is necessary to be able to create quality, that we do not constantly say that we should run faster and faster and that we should cut more and more. And that is why the rapporteur's President also said at some point that it would be good if the Left could back this up with the fact that when more children and older people came along, the money would have to follow, and I would just ask the rapporteur to confirm that this is actually what is the rule and what we are doing, and I would like to ask whether the Danish People's Party supports the new direction that we have set in relation to welfare policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908131356	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908131356-2	That does not happen anyway, because the money comes through the framework, and if the SF gets power as they are watching, then they get introduced into this Finance Act, that you get minimum standards in the field of children, which at least for a short period of time can be positive enough to be sure that you have the educators that are needed. But what can then happen is that if all the money does not come with such minimum standards, then the municipalities must give priority, and then it is that they go from one area to another. What we have seen is that the money has gone from the elderly to all sorts of other areas. After all, when we introduced the dignity billionaire, the former Socialist government also introduced the elderly billion to pump 2 billion. kr. As soon as they got above the block subsidy, the municipalities began to cut back on the amounts they had received and which were locked to the elderly area. So you have to be careful not to think that because you send some money out, they also get where they're supposed to go. There are still municipalities that are building superliga stadiums and cutting down on the older areas. It's just a fact.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908131454	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908131459	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. I agree with the rapporteur that there is a lack of real green initiatives in the government's financial law proposals for both climate and nature. Therefore, I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party: is that the rapporteur's view, because the rapporteur's party has also endorsed the 70-percent target, that it can be achieved without setting a penny off on the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908131528	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908131529	No, it cannot, because what we need to do is to encourage innovation. I think that we should be careful that the green transition hurts, that is to say that it has to be more expensive to be a car owner and that it must be difficult to live in the province • all these things that we saw come out yesterday and in the political debate that followed. It is of course very important that we help to support the companies that can support the green transition, so that they also find it interesting to invest in Denmark and also use Denmark as a country to try out new ways of making green conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908131600	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908131601	Thank you. Does this mean that in the Danish People's Party you want to leave room for manoeuvre? Does the rapporteur think that a room for manoeuvre should be set aside for the green transition?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908131610	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908131611	Well, it's such a weird discussion, because what's room for manoeuvre? Råderum is, of course, tax money that has not yet been spent, and they can be used for what we want politically. After all, we are elected on each of our lists, and we are elected from each of our parties, and we have set some agendas for it. And once we have concluded some agreements, we must also finance them. We do not see that green measures cannot be financed through the room for manoeuvre. Indeed, green measures can also easily be things that make Denmark richer and which increase employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908131643	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908131658	Thank you for that, and also thank you for your speech. Like my radical colleagues, I also agree with the criticism of the government's draft budget: there is a lack of green ambition. However, I also think it is fair to have the debate in the Chamber today that we then have the opportunity to ask the other parties how they will actually play it, especially when they are out with a criticism which I think is entirely justified that DF also has. But where will DF actually take action? Everyone agrees that we are incredibly busy if we are to reach the 70-percent target, and that is what we have to do, and the DF has also signed on to it so to speak. So where are we gonna start? For everyone who knows something about the area also says that technological solutions are important, but that they cannot stand alone at all within the time horizon we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908131744	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908131745	The first point is, of course, that we continue with the small, good arrangements that we have in the current Finance Act and which have moved on. But it's like that to keep driving out there. Then there is something that is of course also very important, for example when we are talking about electric cars. Actually, it's not that interesting to say how many electric cars we get. It's more interesting how many of the other cars go out. Because if we just increase the number of cars, it is not the case that we are becoming more green. There are also some other cars that need to get out. That is why I think it is really, really important that we have a look at how to get the oldest cars out first. And there are among others. We have also seen that it has helped the most polluting and oldest cars. These are the smaller handles that can actually give something on the short track. Then it is also very important in relation to the agreement on the whole waste sector, which unfortunately we are not part of, that there are also innovative ways to find. How are we gonna fix this? The most energy-intensive thing we have in Denmark is our homes. How do we make them less energy-intensive and more green?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908131844	Here you go, Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908131845	Thank you. These are good suggestions, but I would just like to say that it is still a little too easy to get around. I mean, we have an agriculture that stands for, I think it's 30%. of our emissions, and we have a transport sector which also accounts for a very large proportion of it. In other words, we have some sectors in which, unless we are told that the one to one has to pay for reducing emissions themselves, we also have to deliver something from in here, whether it is restructuring aid, land purchase, concrete rewards for changing cars or higher scrap premium. After all, all this costs money, a great deal of money, and I just do not think that DF's rapporteur has been concrete in terms of where to find the money, that is how to finance it. Because I think we agree that the room for manoeuvre is not going to get into a long discussion about what it is • to a large extent to be spent on welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908131951	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908131953	I think you just have to look at the fact that it doesn't all have to be that way. When you talk agriculture and you talk low-level soils, for example, can they do anything else? Yeah, they can turn into some kind of nature when they're flooded, but is that also where we can put up more solar cells? How can we make it more attractive? Indeed, without State subsidies, the return on solar cells today is actually quite good. How do we make any legislation that gives you the opportunity, for example, to set up solar cells on these low bottom soils that you take out? Then we can create a framework and framework conditions for you to have a different kind of operation on those lands that then also provide green energy. I therefore believe that we will have to look much more closely at these solutions together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908132031	Thank you. And here you go, sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908132041	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. And then I would like to welcome you to the club, because I understand from the Danish People's Party that minimum standards are now being supported in the area of older people. And from Enhedslisten's side, we have been fighting for welfare rights for many years, both for the elderly and also for children in day care institutions. This is our approach to how we believe we can secure the welfare society and create rights for citizens. I remember it all the way back from the mid-00s, when we started to have these thoughts, and to the 2014 Finance Act, as some may also remember, we also made the demand for welfare rights. It's about the right to cleaning, it's about the prohibition of single guards. It's also something we work with and some may remember the two baths a week. So that is at all the fact that we are creating rights for citizens, which we think is a wise way of looking at things. So my question is actually: How important is this for the Danish People's Party? Will the Danish People's Party help to push for a real recovery of welfare, so that it is not just the pure demographic trait that the government has set up, or should all kinds of other crazy alien demands come in that can destroy the work to put pressure on it to improve welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908132200	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908132201	I think it is worth noting very much that what I said may be necessary for a period of time. We almost see this as a protection against what we see out there. We also agree that this has also happened in the area of day care, just as it has happened in the area of the elderly, that is to say, it is the large clusters in the municipalities, and they have not had enough focus. But we are also a party that loves municipal autonomy, and you have the politicians that you have voted in yourself. But there are just some rights you should have. We'd like to be on top of it. So I would like to say that it is not a great wish for the Danish People's Party to have minimum standards, but it can be a means of getting dignified care for the elderly and a dignified child policy out in the municipalities. And we certainly hope that this is something that can go away again so that we can get our local democracy back, but right now we just have to realise with what we see around us that things are not good.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908132253	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908132256	Thank you. When the Danish People's Party had a summer group meeting, it was launched that this was the way to look at things, and my question is really: How important is this here for the Danish People's Party? So, does the Danish People's Party come to the negotiating table with all sorts of demands that there should be restrictions on foreigners, which will be completely inedible for Enhedslisten, for example, or will the Danish People's Party focus on us having the welfare restored and spending our energies on it? For then, frankly, I think there can be more to it than if the Danish People's Party comes up with all kinds of foreign claims, which will be inedible for a large number of other parties, in the financial law negotiations. So what is the most important thing for the Danish People's Party? is the older, or is it alien?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908132341	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908132342	It's a combination of both. In other words, we are capable of multitasking, and of course we come to the negotiations also with restrictions on foreigners, which we always do, especially because there have been so many reliefs, as has happened in the very, very short period we have had with a social democratic government. But I would like to say that we have a completely different model. That was when we talked about compensatory reform, and then we asked: should the municipalities actually levy taxes at all, or should we not ensure that the community pays for the services that citizens should have? And then it shouldn't be a discussion about being born in Copenhagen and living in here and becoming an early retirementist, and that's fair enough, and then you have to stand down at Lolland and whine that now you come to Lolland as an early retirement. Of course, as a citizen, you have the right to move around the whole of Denmark, and we would get beyond that if the municipalities did not have the right to levy taxes. But we said: the money follows the citizen. And I do not think that we would have so much need to have these many rules of protection if the money were to go along with it either, because that is where we agree with Enhedslisten's money has not followed either in actual figures or above the municipal boundaries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908132440	Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908132442	Thank you, sir. René Christensen. After all, I am glad that DF shares our concern for the lack of focus on the economy and on growth in this draft Finance Act. The same applies, of course, to the distortion which I think we both think there is, compared to how much you spend on the elderly and so on foreigners. But there was one thing, and it may be that I did not listen to what I did not hear the rapporteur mention, which is at least something that I have been very puzzled about. I cannot find one place where money is set aside for a new exit centre, and I think that is very strange, because if I do not remember wrong, that is at least one of the things the government has proposed. I think this is something that both the Danish People's Party and we Conservatives are very concerned about, in other words, that rejected foreigners should leave the country. Am I the one who's been reading all wrong? Has the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party found anything about a new exit centre?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908132536	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908132537	No, I can confirm that we have not found it, and also that we have been looking for it, so it is no coincidence that we have seen that it is not there. We had also expected that a new exit centre would be established. But again: it is one party, it is the Social Democratic Party that has tabled the budget bill, and perhaps it is about not wanting to have an exit centre. It may be that you don't want these people to leave Denmark. It may be that you want these people to stay here and become part of Denmark with the great challenges it presents. So, no, we can't see it, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908132609	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908132609-2	That brings me to the next and almost equally obvious question. Social democracy has talked a lot about this camp in North Africa, and such a camp doesn't build itself. It probably also costs some money, and that is something that you will probably have to look at very long-term if it is the case that you want to plan for that. I can't find a single crown there either. I do not know whether the Danish People's Party has been able to find something that I have not been able to find, but to me it just smells more and more of saying one thing: you promise an exit centre, you promise an asylum centre in Africa etc. etc. This must also be an almost even higher priority for the Danish People's Party, so the Danish People's Party can even see itself entering any meaningful negotiations with the Social Democrat when it completely omits the exit centres and omits the great promise of Yes thanks! )... an exit centre in Africa?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908132702	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908132703	Yeah, we can see ourselves going into a room where it looks really hard. We have often done so, and sometimes we have also come out with something that has been right, very sensible. In politics it is sometimes the case that you can have a huge 50 per cent victory when you are in opposition, and then you can have a huge 70 per cent victory when you are a support party. That is the way it is and we will use our mandates where we get the most out of it. But I fully agree that everything that was said to be wanted has been a bluff. Well, paper is thankful, you can write everything right, but it's this paper that's the important thing in terms of what it is you want to put into practice, and there, unfortunately, we can't find the tight immigration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908132737	Thank you. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908132740	Thank you. I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on focusing on the irresponsibleness of taking up debt for increased consumption. I think it is sensible tactics that I hear from the Danish People's Party. That's one side of the medal. The other side is that taxes are also increased in order to finance something here. And I would like to know whether the Danish People's Party also thinks that it is wrong and that instead we should find the funds within one of the world's largest public sectors and then re-prioritize there. Or how do you view the fact that you also want to raise taxes?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908132811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908132812	It is, of course, the case that raising taxes is generally a bad idea. However, we have been involved in this over time, I would like to say, and there may be areas where it is said that it makes sense. We had a political battle for cigarettes, and we disagreed with the government. The government has chosen to raise the tax on cigarettes, for example, because that is what it wanted. The Danish People's Party did not want that. We think that when you spend money, especially when you borrow loans, you could also spend it on something that made us richer. And there we would like to look at such things as employment allowances, or what about some other things that make it more attractive to be in the labour market? Couldn't we invest in getting these unemployment figures down? We think we can do that in a situation like the one we are in now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908132853	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908132854	Thank you. We are also looking into some tax negotiations on vehicle taxes, and I hope that the Danish People's Party will stand with New Citizens and watch over the Danes' right to drive, so that it will not be more expensive for Danish drivers to own or buy cars out there. Is this something that the Danish People's Party will be watching along with New Citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908132914	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908132915	The times when car taxes have been reduced in Denmark, Dansk Folkeparti has been part of it, and we also believe that private carism is extremely important, especially in order to make Denmark stick together. After all, we are a geographically large country with a few metropolises, where jobs are located, and it is therefore important that it is not only those in the metropolises who can get back and forth, such as in Copenhagen who have metro, A-buses and S-trains. But you have to be able to get back and forth across the country. And there is private carism still quite important, even when you look at the fact that, despite the fact that there have been large investments in public transport, you cannot get around Denmark. So yes, we will be watching that it will not be more expensive to have a car, but we would also like a green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908132956	Thank you. Sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908132959	Thank you. I think maybe, sir. René Christensen comes a little quickly over what is really in such a financial law when we, for example, come to terms with what is really in such a financial law. Looking at the area of older people. For it is true that some of what has then been able to afford, in addition to stimulating employment, to ensure that jobs are in progress, that fewer people become unemployed, is to set aside some money to improve quality, skills in the area of the elderly. It's in the Finance Act. That's not a bigger amount than that, sir. René Christensen mentions, but that is one of the priorities. But in addition to that there is also economic policy that it is now quite firmly established that when there are more older people, including in the municipality where Mr. René Christensen sits on the city council, more money will be put off. This was done in two economic agreements with the municipalities. That is also in the Finance Act. Just as a compensatory reform has been made, which also benefits the municipalities of those who have had difficulty in making it run around and who are more affected by their economy than others. That's where I'd just like to ask sir. René Christensen to his own municipality, if it is not true that it has been possible to benefit the elderly area and that a total of 120 million has been received. kr. more as a result of the compensatory reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908133110	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908133111	Yes, I can confirm that. I can also confirm that such a thing as the rock card scheme has come back because it wanted the Danish People's Party to happen in that municipality. But anyway, when we look at what savings have been made in the municipalities, it must be said that despite the intentions of the Danish Parliament across parties, I would like to say that, because the Danish People's Party should not only be praised for this; as I said earlier, the former Socialist-led government put 1 billion. kr. off, and we set off 1 billion. kr. With the Blue Government, we saw massive cuts. As soon as the money came over the block, it was drawn, also into the money that was given to the elderly. It gives such a degree of frustration when you are fond of local self-government, and that is why we are saying that we will probably have to discuss how we can get the money locked more, and it might be by using the model proposed by the SF in the area of children, that is to say to have a minimum standard, in relation to how much money there should be in this area. But it is in frustration that the intentions which are widely anchored in the Folketing are not recognised in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908133212	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908133213	It is a very important debate on how to improve quality. In the case of television, it was now not so much about how many hands there were, but more about how you looked at the elderly for whom you were responsible. But I really think that what comes out of Mr. René Christensen's answer is a recognition that the municipality too, Mr. René Christensen represents, has a better economy now, because there has been a new government making economic agreements where the funds come with a compensatory reform of 120 million. kr. More. In fact, I believe that Guldborgsund Municipality was the one with the largest extra amount. Is it not true that it has actually come out of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908133249	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908133250	That's right. What I just hope is that when a minister goes on television and says that a revolution is about to take place, something happens. Then you don't just drop some money off and say, "Now we're sending $2 million." kr. Then I'm home safe. Now I've made a revolution. So I really hope that we will be called for negotiations which are about: what is the real thing for an elderly care that we want in Denmark? What kind of day institutions do we want in Denmark? Why is there 15%? of those leaving primary school who have not received 02 in Danish and 02 in mathematics? We can't be that familiar. We spend so much money, and we also recognise that more people have come out, so surely we should spend them properly in the municipalities. Otherwise, we'll have to help them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908133329	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908133333	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech, in which the Danish People's Party made clear and also made it clear in subsequent answers that a draft Finance Act is not good enough where not a single penny has been set aside for CO2 It is simply not good enough that more money has been set aside to brand a climate target than to act on the target. Therefore, I would like to ask the Danish People's Party, since the Danish People's Party agrees that something must happen now and here, including in a finance law such as this one, in order to achieve the climate target by 2030, whether the Danish People's Party would also help to achieve an ambitious climate target for 2025. Otherwise, what the rapporteur warned us about is that it can really hurt the Danes if it is simply to postpone CO2 So will the Danish People's Party help set an ambitious climate target for 2025 as a milestone towards 2030?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908133433	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908133434	When you make such long-term goals, it is also important that there is proportion in them, because otherwise it will happen that the day you stand at the finish line you say: we did not achieve that. I guess you should've moved out of the way. Whether this is to be a target by 2025, I am not going to say, but what is at least important are the agreements that we are making. Now there has been such a culture here with the 70%. We can also see that with the agreement that was made last, in the area of waste, the economy is not quite connected. It costs almost nothing to the citizens. But now it turns out that it might cost the public five, six, seven times more when it comes to dealing with waste in a different way. And there it is important that we constantly aim for 2030, and whether we can somehow create some staging points where we evaluate and look at it, I think is quite important. We should probably do that once a year. Whether there's going to be these slopes where you can say that now we were a failure in the community here, i.e. whether that's how you're supposed to do it, I don't know. But evaluation is extremely important, because otherwise we will be frustrated in 2029.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908133535	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908133536	Thank you to the rapporteur for being positive about such staging points. I think that sounds very positive. I would therefore like to hear whether the rapporteur does not agree that it is easier to achieve a 2030 target if we have such a linear course for it than if we put it all off to the very end, where we risk what hurts the Danes, which the rapporteur warns very much about, because we really need to take drastic steps if we are to do so in a very, very short period of time. So does the rapporteur agree that if a linear course is taken for the 2030 climate target, is there also a greater chance of achieving it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908133611	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908133612	Theoretically, there will be a greater chance of achieving it, but the question is whether that is the wisest way to do it. That's how I'm gonna answer it. For let us just go back to yesterday when we got the report on green cars; it has to be said that the industry is on our side. There may not be so much happening in the first few years, but then something will happen because some better cars will be developed. You sell some more units around the world, and thus the price falls, and then we get more electric cars in Denmark. And there is the question of whether we should do it linearly, in relation to how many electric cars we should have. I think we should be realistic and say that we will probably have most electric cars in the last part of the period.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908133646	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908133649	Thank you. The Danish People's Party often says that they do not want more refugees to Denmark, but it is very, very rare to see them make proposals to prevent refugees coming to Denmark so effectively. One could, for example, do so. in the refugee camps, to which the UN says that there is only 60%. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposals. Then many with children say: then we should try to find another place, and it might be better in Europe. What is the reason why you never see the Danish People's Party make proposals that development aid should be increased so that we can help better in refugee camps and so that people can actually have a decent and decent life when they are in refugee camps, with education for children, health etc., until they can return again?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908133737	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908133738	That's because you don't follow. In the 2017 Finance Act, we actually had it with us, and we got it too. There we actually increased our efforts in the neighbourhood, while also tightening up our foreign policy, precisely on the basis that we said that if we help in the neighbourhood and people want to stay where they are than they want to escape, we can also with good reason tighten up the rules in Denmark. So we have made that proposal, and we actually got it through the course of course it was a single year in which we then had a special effort in the neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908133810	Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908133811	Well, things like that aren't solved all at once and in one year. Some of the refugees live in the camps as long as 20 years, and that is why it is something that must be done continuously. And if the current government were to lift its backs over the 0.7%, it would perhaps be a good idea for us to help them get some more development aid going, including to those countries where there are no crises and we do not have to flee, because there is a need to create a life, a job, an education, production opportunities, health and all those things. This is really needed in the world at the moment with 700 million absolutely poor, that is. you have to live for less than 8 kroner. a day. So it shouldn't just be a decorative proposal for a single year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908133854	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908133855	No, but it has to be said that with the policy being pursued now that quota refugees are being opened up, the policy on foreigners is being relaxed, we will not go out that way at all. In other words, if you are going to go out that way at all, you have to have a very tight policy on foreigners. You actually have to have a stop to refugees and then you have to say that you help them where they are. And then I would just like to say that there are only five countries in the world that really pay the 0.7 that have been agreed. Denmark is one of them, and when you look at it on the budget bill for 2021, it is actually increasing: it is actually over 0.7. So we are spending more, and we do not think this is related to relaxing foreign policy as well. So we are actually opposed to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908133935	Thank you. No one else wishes to speak for short remarks or questions. That is why it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908133954	Thank you. Last year we had the Finance Law debate later this year, so there I had just been on autumn vacation in London with my two sons and my children will also play a role here and we had been at the Harry Potter Museum. It's a magical world you're in there, and we were out in the world. It feels like an incredible long time ago right now. There hasn't been much of that this year. There hasn't been so much magic or traveling because there's been corona. But we've moved on, too, and we're moving on while corona's still here. In this way, I think that with the pandemic you put some sort of magnifying on who we are, and perhaps most of all, who we want to be. Corona has, of course, been an opportunity for many to ask what the meaning really is. Morten Østergaard travels around the country with a sign and asks people about the same next level. But as Dumbledore also says to Harry Potter, and it is the great sorcerer to the young sorcerer: We all come at some point in our lives to face the choice between what is right and what is easy. In fact, so far, I think we have come out quite well as a community. I still believe that the people have us politicians for exams, including since last year's elections. We are not out on the other side of the crisis of confidence. But as a community, we have been good. I'm proud to be a Dane. We take responsibility, and when the crisis hits, we act. We find solutions locally, we mobilise when we are passionate about something. And we have seen that attitude and action countless times in the last year. When the country shut down, we helped each other. Danes bought in for isolated fellow citizens, an abundance of volunteers manned the Red Cross, and hotlines, doctors and teachers changed the work in record time, and they do so again today, and they did so when my son had returned and in the transition. There are still restrictions and hand alcohol and routines. Doctors, nurses and front staff took away and continue to take away from bureaucrats and bureaucrats, who otherwise get blamed for too much, threw what they had in the hands of circulars, and just made it work across systems in state, regions and municipalities. Companies decorated, volunteered, and helped. But we saw it before the corona crisis and now again here. It is especially young people who take the lead and mobilise when they can see that their future is under threat, because the climate crisis is still here. So we have also had a strong climate movement and a committed student movement against the massive savings in education in the past. We have companies that have provided everything they have in the climate partnerships to come up with solutions to the world's most ambitious climate laws to reduce our CO2 by 2030. We have had a consent guard who, day in and day out, has stood in front of Christiansborg and said what should be obvious, namely that sex must be voluntary. So the Danes in all sorts of different constellations stand together and stand up and engage when it comes to this. And that works, too, because there are a large number of political results in the last year for which we can thank the Danes for their commitment. There is movement in the climate area where we have the mandates to push and sometimes force the government to take green action at the latest in the climate agreement just before the summer holiday, and that was also by a broad majority. There is a maternity fund for self-employed people, a historical consent clause and a stop to savings in education and culture, at least so far, because there is a little more that we must prevent here. We have come some way with a new value-policy direction. There's not quite that much senselessness. Young refugees temporarily staying can now take an education. We spent the last year on that, too. In particular, it is a group of young women whom we, in the country of equal opportunities, prevented from training. We are taking quota refugees again, not enough, but we have set it in motion, and the children who were documented permanent psychologically but by confinement in Soulsmark have finally come out. That's a little late for corona, too. So we've acted. We have set in motion a new direction and taken the first steps. And I dare also say that the Danes of course expect much more from us than we have so far delivered. After all, the need for action has not diminished in the last year either, on the contrary. A worldwide health crisis has turned into an economic crisis, a crisis that has given the Danish economy a huge stomach blow. The government then goes with its financial bill all the way to the edge of the budget law and finances for borrowed money. In a time of crisis, it may make a great deal of sense, but it is difficult to defend the person responsible in spending borrowed money on operations, because it leaves a bill for the next. So when we borrow from the future, we also have a duty to invest in the future. For the Radical Left, this means a financial law that makes Denmark greener and freer and stronger. We must make a budget law in the same spirit as we have had in the last year in the same spirit as the Danes have shown us, where we Corona crisis is the most acute crisis, but then the climate crisis remains the greatest and most escalating of mankind. Finding the green transition in the government's financial bill is like looking for a waste sorting plant in Karachi, which was jokingly in Politiken last Sunday. I have never been to Karachi nor tried to look for a waste sorting plant, but the question is, dear Social Democrats, how you will explain to our young people that we in Christiansborg can act decisively when the corona crisis threatens, but that you do not have the same will to act against the climate crisis that threatens their future. I hope and believe that you will think better there. After all, the Corona crisis made us temporarily less free. We had and sometimes have fewer opportunities because we have to adapt. There were also some who felt what it could mean when we set something free in small: fewer rules and routines. The Finance Act must also contribute to this: to set us free, to provide opportunities, especially for the youth who experienced a neglected spring. So we have to set free by investing in schools and education and learning from the experiences we had and freeing ourselves by fighting for more equal value and equality, also with the Finance Act. As you know, we can play that there is no difference between how we treat women and men. We can play that. It's just not right. It was Sofie Linde who said so, and that is why I am also asking for an equal opportunities minister on this platform. He hasn't been there yet. When, for example, will we get it? a gender-separated pay statistics? When is there any progress in the area of equality? This also means that we must invest in the smart solutions and jobs of the future in strong companies and also learn from the corona in terms of digitalisation and green conversion. We also propose to make the research and development allowance permanent at 130 per cent. I am really glad that we included it in the stimulus package we negotiated before summer. We are proposing a green investment window now because it is now that companies need to invest in the green conversion so that they are ready to seize the opportunities • especially our export companies • when they re-emerge, but they also need the support now. This also means that we must give culture a solid boost. Because if we did not know that already, we have been reminded here in the Corona crisis why we cannot do without cultural life. We have tagged missing: closed museums. Fortunately, they have opened again and theaters and canceled concerts. Culture is the very glue that makes us hang together, especially when we are pressed and challenged. But for many of those who give us the culture of the artists, the venues, the museums and all those around them, the crisis is still grave serious. There are many who are threatened with their existence, and we all lose if they lose and no longer exist. That is why culture is also high on our agenda. During the corona crisis, we stood together • the citizens, companies, civil society, us politicians and solved quite major challenges. It worked. Now we have to show that we can deliver on that power of action. The objective of the Radical Left in the forthcoming financial negotiations is to show that we are made of the same substance as the Danes, and therefore make a financial law for the future of Denmark. Because these are the choices we make that show who we really are, far more than they are our abilities. You can chew on that, and that's what Dumbledore says to Harry Potter. And what financial law we choose to make is also such a choice. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908134952	Thank you. And there are a number of brief comments. First, it's sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908134957	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. There were several good points, I think, in relation to both growth and employment in the speech; I would like to sign for that. But what I would like to hear from the Radical Left is this whole green transition, which we have spent a lot of effort on here in 2020. Perhaps I would ask the Radical Left to unfold their point of view. Before today, there has been a debate in this Chamber about whether economic room for manoeuvre can be used for welfare or the green transition, and there are, after all, some parties who believe that the room for manoeuvre should only be reserved for increased welfare costs. How does the Radical Left view this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908135039	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908135041	Thank you and thank you for the question. We in the Radical Left do not believe and I also think it is quite well documented that we can get to the goal at all without setting aside money to achieve that goal. And, of course, we have set the target by a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, which is about 70% reduction. That is why we say that we have to have a green room for manoeuvre, and the room for manoeuvre is fortunately something that exists because of a responsible economy, but also something that can be created by political decisions. We say we have to put at least 2 billion. kr. of a year in a green space. I don't even think that's enough to do everything we have to do. We agree that decisions must also be taken in addition to that, for example. that it must be more expensive to trade black and cheaper to trade green, all these things, but we also have to say that it will cost, and show all those who have worked hard for this, both companies and citizens, that we are, of course, also prepared to prioritise it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908135145	Thank you. And then it's sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908135147	Thank you for that, I thought that was a very clear speech. If you look at something else, which is also connected with the whole question of how and how to ensure that Denmark does not get poorer, but potentially richer, then it is no secret that negotiations are also taking place at the moment on early retirement. And in the proposal that the government has made, we know that up to 10,000 people are going to be reduced by the job offer. There is also a paper of understanding which, not least the Radical Left, has been deeply involved in at least much more than the Left has been, and from this one it has to be understood that if one reduces labour supply in one area, one has to compensate it in another area. And as I understand it, it must also be done in a reasonable relationship with each other, that is to say you cannot simply reduce the supply of work without taking initiatives at some point in the course of a few months to strengthen the supply of work in the same way as you have reduced it. How and how is the Radical Left's understanding of this? It's more of a clear, curious question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908135251	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908135253	Well, that's right. So, taking people out of employment, people must enter employment. That is the basic approach, and it is also what the government has committed itself to in the paper of understanding, which, of course, we expect it to live up to, that is, because it is the backbone of our responsible economic policy that ensures that we can afford welfare, that we can invest in day care institutions and that there are people to help the elderly in nursing homes and that we can afford the green transition. It is the backbone of a responsible economic policy that there are people at work because that is the resource we have in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908135334	Sir. René Christensen, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908135336	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The Radical Left and the Danish People's Party may disagree on most things when we talk about foreign policy, but there are still other areas where we can easily see a sensible and good cooperation. That is why I really want to ask the rapporteur about the war fund. It's the borrowed money, the 9.2 billion. kr., as such, is under negotiation. We've been hearing over the last few days that they can be used for anything. The Radicals will probably have some influence on the Finance Act. Does the rapporteur also think that the 9.2 billion? kr. is such real money that you can buy the welfare and use for anything, or are they very locked in relation to the situation we are in? In any case, the Danish People's Party would very much like to see an amount returned to the time we receive a vaccine.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908135425	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908135426	Well, I share that view, namely that a reserve is good to have for the unforeseen health costs that may be. I do not think that we are at war, but I would very much like to place a reserve. We will also do so in our draft budget, which we will be presenting later. So there's really good sense in that. There is also very good sense in putting some of it off to invest in companies that need to be helped through this crisis. I believe, unfortunately, that more will be needed. I'm worried about our export companies. That is why I mentioned a green investment window, a research and development allowance. But it is true that this is borrowed money and they are temporary.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908135513	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908135515	Thank you. That is why it is also exciting to follow the Finance Act and see how it ends. The Danish People's Party also hopes that we will be invited inside, yes, I know we will be. Then it's all about how long you get to stay there, but time will tell. What is interesting is that if some of the money is going to play, we in the Danish People's Party believe it is important that it is some money that comes into play in such a way that we come out strengthened on the other side. So, we have to invest in some measures that make Danish companies and thus also Danish workers able to be self-supporting and thus help to pay some taxes for which we can then buy some welfare. It is the case that Denmark is a tax-financed society, so if there are no jobs, we have no welfare either. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908135554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908135555	But I am very much in agreement with the opinion of the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I think that we words to the contrary agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908135603	Thank you. Sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908135606	Thank you. I am delighted when I hear Radical Left say that Denmark must be both green and strong, because that means that you want to strengthen the economy while driving a positive climate policy. However, when you look at Radical Left support for the fire taxation of Danish family companies of 15 generations, which the son or daughter would like to take over, I would like to ask whether the rapporteur really believes that a company is able to pursue a greener and more adaptable policy when it withdraws so much capital from it, or whether it is the case that the company is being forced to kneel economically and therefore cannot do as much to meet the climate measures that we would like to do in cooperation with the business community.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908135649	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908135650	Thank you for the receipt with regard to the green and strong and free too. It is really important that we set more time off. I agree that there is much more to be done in order to achieve this budget proposal. I do not agree that a uniform inheritance tax is the way forward. In fact, according to economists, this is one of the ways in which it is not drawn, for example. employment out of the labour market, that is, it does not take people out of the labour market to standardise inheritance taxation, and among other things. That is why we were in favour of it, and we thought it was more fair, but there are a large number of other initiatives we should take: green investment window, research and development allowance, all the sort of things that would make us have a more dynamic development in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908135745	Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908135746	I do not think I can find a single company owner in Denmark who believes that it is fair or free to brand tax a company simply because it is a privately owned family business. I don't think you can. But I will then follow up on Troels Lund Poulsen's question about the situation if the government comes up with measures that undermine employment, where the rapporteur said before: well, we will probably not be happy about that in relation to the understanding paper. But if the government insists on measures that undermine employment, will the Radical Left continue to hold hands under that government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908135821	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908135823	We have a paper of understanding on which this government is committed, and it says that if initiatives are put forward, and I cannot prevent the government in which people are pulling out of the labour market, then initiatives must be put in place to bring similar numbers of people into the labour market, because that is the backbone of our economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908135845	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908135849	That was the last thing I wanted to talk to the Radical Left rapporteur about. It is not often that the Radical Left cares about the working environment and safety, at least not for ordinary workers. We have agreed on some rules on mental health and safety at work, and that is very good, but 60 000 people are affected by an occupational injury every year, and that has been almost the whole time I have been an adult, no matter what government has been sitting. It currently costs society 80 billion. kr., some of them in production losses for companies, some of them for the health system, some of them for retirement, which means that we are largely withdrawing people from the labour market because we are destroying their health. When do we start as consistently as when we talk about climate, to talk about people's opportunities to stay on and have the strength and body to work, for example. After they're 68 years old? They can't do that today. Many people have to stop when they're 60 or before.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908135947	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908135951	Well, I totally agree with Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl believes that prevention and the working environment are extremely important, and I think that we have made several proposals in this area together in the past, and we also make proposals for this in our financial legislation. I fully agree that this is a crucial priority and something that we should devote more effort to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140011	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140012	Yes, we did a reform here not long ago, but it's someone who's just patching up the system. It doesn't basically address the prevention. And it was on the basis of some figures that the back and skeletal problems and the serious accidents just got worse and worse and that the psychological work environment just got worse and worse. There we had to do something, and I'd guess that if we're really, really lucky, then it just straightens out, so we're going to continue with the 60,000. After all, we need a lot more money. I think we have to go up to 100 million. kr. I'm gonna change these numbers every year for a long period of time before we even change these numbers. And we need training, we need more health and safety representatives, we need better labour inspection and those things.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140055	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140056	We are also making proposals for this, but it is probably true that we are in more agreements in this area than Enhedslisten, because we think it is essential to try to move forward in that area, even if that is not enough. I can agree with the rapporteur that not enough is always happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140114	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140117	Thank you. I will also choose to focus on something that I think we can agree on instead of everything we disagree on. And that is for example. financial responsibility. Now we're talking about this supply of labour and the understanding paper. What's the window for that? For now the second Finance Act is moving in the wrong direction when we talk about labour supply. That's why I'm curious. I expect you to talk about this period of government when you make a paper of understanding which will apply to this period of government. So how big is that window? Then there is, for example. Only two financial laws remain, and so far only proposals have been made that are moving in the wrong direction. So I would like to ask what are these concrete ideas? I know that something has been said about research, but it is not so much in relation to the big picture, compared to how many have been pulled out so far. So what is it that the Radical Left believes there should be concrete ideas for, so that you can go the other way? Or is it thought that it alone is up to the government to make those proposals?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140204	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140205	After all, it is not the Radical Left that has put forward proposals to withdraw people from employment. Now it is not a proposal that has yet been adopted, I am well aware. But you can ask the Danish People's Party about that. So now we have to see what happens to it, but it is the responsibility of the government to put forward proposals for it. That is also what the paper of understanding requires, in other words, that when people are withdrawn from employment, they must come up with proposals to get people into employment. I would like to add that we will make proposals on how to increase employment. We do that every year in our own financial act.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140244	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140244-2	Thank you. I'd like to get a little closer to what the window is for that. Well, are we talking about just bringing it in during this reign, and then coming, can you say, the effect out there isn't for 10, 15, 20 years? Or what is this window that Radical Left thinks this is supposed to be in?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140303	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140304	Of course. If a proposal is adopted which withdraws 10 000 people from employment, it must be delivered within a very clear timescale.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140315	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140317	Thank you. We are faced with some negotiations on the green transition of passenger traffic, and there is the boring tendency, I think, particularly on the left side of the House, to say that it is very, very difficult that it takes very, very large sacrifices and that it is very, very difficult. But the reality is that if we did not have a registration fee on green cars and the Danes tomorrow stopped buying fossil cars and only bought green cars without registration fee, the Treasury would miss 8.25 billion. kr. That's 0.75%. of public expenditure. Is it outside the imagination of the Radical Left that money equal to 0.75% could be made more efficient or otherwise found? I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that there is no registration tax on green cars at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140412	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140412-2	I hope it is not beyond the imagination of the Radical Left. I believe and perhaps we share the view that a common technical tax would be the clear best way forward. Now that is not exactly what is in the cards, at least not from the commission. However, we will probably give priority to spending those funds, if we found them, very directly on the green transition more than to completely abolish the registration tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140448	Here you go, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140449	Well, it's a little strange that one has so attached oneself to the fact that cars are to be used to be a redistribution tool in Danish society. In other words, we do not have that with all sorts of other consumer goods, that is, that there must be extra taxes and taxes on them, because we need them for redistribution. I believe that cars should be taxed to the extent that they harm our common society and that taxes should be equivalent to the damage done by cars. And there is ample tax on petrol and diesel and green property tax and insurance tax and all sorts of things. We can do without the registration tax on green cars. That is the message that comes from, among other things. The wise men. Without registration tax, there is still ample taxation on cars in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140535	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140536	I can easily follow the rapporteur, and it is true that if we look through our entire public economy, if I may say so, there are sometimes elements that come from a time when it was not, of course, about redistribution, but about reducing the number of cars and the amount of emissions, and which are now an integral part of our economy. And it's really hard to pick out such a piece without having anything to replace it with. But I guess that's the work that we did yesterday, as Anders Eldrup said, should have started 10-15 years ago. But then we have to do it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140618	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140620	Thank you very much, and thank you for your speech. In the alternative, we are just as frustrated as the Radicals that there are so few green ambitions in this draft budget, both in terms of climate and in terms of nature. But the question is, should we not borrow some money and add it and give the green transition a proper boost in that way? The Corona crisis has shown us that we found hundreds of billions, and now that it is the case that we are turning to a new crisis, which, hopefully and probably, is far greater than the Corona crisis, why do we not go out to those markets where we have a good credit rating in relation to short-term investments and borrow the 50 billion? kr. or 100 billion. kr., it is necessary to give the green conversion the boost of the order of magnitude that is really necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140712	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140713	Well, I heard it before, too. But that is what the government is doing; it is going to borrow 10 billion. kr. That's the only reason you can borrow the money you can borrow. And if you are going to borrow money and spend it on something, surely it should be investing in the future and ensuring that we reach the targets of the green transition. I believe that this last point is in agreement with the rapporteur. If you're going to borrow 100 billion... kr., I would like to see a comprehensive financial plan for how it will be connected in the longer term too • because it is a loan you take in the future, and there are some generations who will have to pay it back at some point. However, I agree with the rapporteur that if you borrow, you have to use it to invest in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140813	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140816	Thank you so much. My second question relates to the right to early retirement, where there is this equation in the Radicals that if we take in 10,000, we take out 10,000, whatever the economic situation. It may also be that there are 100,000 in or 100,000 out. I don't quite understand the calculation. But if we now imagine that we are going to have 10,000, do we not risk that it will be cash benefits recipients, perhaps sick cash benefits recipients, who are being pressured into entering the labour market, even though they may not be able to do so at all, so that Mette on cash benefits really has to pay the price for Arne to get an earlier withdrawal if the Radicals are to be involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140858	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140859	Yeah, you gotta ask the government that. I do not think we have such great ambitions that further reforms of the cash aid reform will be needed. On the contrary, we want to continue to abolish poverty benefits. I do not think there is anything more to be done there. So, no, our ambition is absolutely not that it should be replaced by people who are sick and need the help of society. But it has to be replaced by some people because it is the backbone of our economic policy, and that is what has done, among other things, that the government is now able to go out to borrow very, very cheaply in fact because we have a responsible economic policy. It is people in work who are the backbone of our economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140950	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908140952	Thank you. When you look at the consequences of the government's Finance Act, you have to on the other side of 2025, in order for unemployment to be at the level it was before the corona crisis hit Denmark. I know that the radical rapporteur is usually very, very thorough, and I would like to hear: is it just me who has overlooked one single initiative in the government's Finance Act, which structuralally contributes to making Denmark a richer society and which helps us to get more in employment, or is the Finance Act, also in a radical sense, devoid of initiatives that increase prosperity in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908141037	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908141038	I agree with the rapporteur that there are no initiatives to bring people into employment, but hopefully there are initiatives that we can set in motion, and we will be working so hard for that when the Finance Act becomes a reality, because it is, of course, a draft Finance Act from the government. I agree. There are far too few proposals about what we should live on in the future in what should finance our welfare in the future and what should finance that we achieve in the context of the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908141113	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908141114	Thank you for your answer. Following that, I would like to ask you a question. The Radicals have, of course, been out in the past to distance themselves clearly from some of the financing elements with which the government also operates in the form of tax increases. There I just want to hear: Does the Radical Left believe that a higher tax on entrepreneurial investment, i.e. equity income tax, makes it easier to attract investment, makes it easier to be an entrepreneur in Denmark; does it create more jobs, or the opposite?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908141151	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908141152	When you put forward proposals that in themselves pull people out of employment, I think it is pretty wild that you then fund it with initiatives that further pull people out of employment. Because it does when you put a higher treasure here. That's also why we're against this treasure. It's not a good time. We need many more entrepreneurs now and we are in crisis. In fact, we need them to hold on and survive, and perhaps to an even greater extent to be able to invest and attract investment. And you don't do that by raising the tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908141232	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908141234	Thank you, President. The Radical Left often has a reputation for being such a responsible party, and we hear Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen say that initiatives that pull people out of the labour market must be matched by initiatives that do the opposite. But what about all the people you want to go to Denmark who rarely enter the labour market? It is, I understand, still a cardinal point for the Radical Left, i.e. to relax the policy of foreigners, and I do not think it should be matched by compensatory measures in the other direction, I understand. It can be said that it is going quite well for the Radical Left that it is the second Finance Act that the party is ahead of the current Finance Minister at the helm, and just within the current budget year I think the amount has increased by between 0.5 and 1 billion. kr., with which the Radical Left's foreign policy is straining Danish taxpayers. That is why I would just like to know whether Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen could perhaps shed some light on what it might be for some costly measures in the foreign account; the Radical Left will be throwing on the table when you sit over in the Ministry of Finance here in a few days' time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908141342	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908141344	I recall that in the most recent financial law we were able to implement the transition of people with a refugee background who are in work to a business regime. The alternative to that was, of course, that they were located somewhere and thus was an expense for the Danish state. Now it has become the case that they can continue to be an income for the Danish State and pay tax and thus be included in the employment figures. I think that's really good. That's what I remember getting through on the Finance Act last year. We do not have any cost-effective proposals for this financial law and, as we know, we do not have a policy to attract any foreign labour. We would really like to see the limit set, because it is of course a contribution to the fact that far, far more people can fill some of the posts that companies themselves today cannot occupy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908141444	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908141445	But what Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen just does not mention is that all these friendly migrants, who are then allowed to stay here at the mercy of the Radical Left, are not here alone. I remember examples from Aarhus or Midtjylland, I think it was, for example. on a bus driver and it is of course nice that there are some who drive the buses, because it is evident that the Danes cannot find out any longer which then had both five, six and seven children, who are therefore in day care institutions and in all possible ways after all the society is at the disadvantage. I do not assume that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen disputes the fact that the initiatives taken in the field of foreigners since this government came into force at the mercy of the Radical Left have cost money. We're talking about, I think, 700 million. kr. Will Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen dispute this, or how can we understand what we are hearing from the radical rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908141530	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908141531	It must be understood quite non-polemically against the rapporteur's approach, namely that of course it costs to live up to conventions and accept refugees it does, and fortunately a broad majority in the Folketing supports that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908141550	Then it's Mrs. Sophie Løhde, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908141552	Thank you, too, for the rapporteur's speech from this point of view. I would actually like to follow up the answer given by Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen to the rapporteur for the Left, because I have been able to see that, recently, there have been such slightly divergent views on the document of understanding when one looks at what has been communicated from the Enhedslisten and from members of the radical parliamentary group. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that if it is the case that this autumn, or at some other time for that matter, the government has had to make agreements which reduce employment structurally, then it must also be matched to one of the initiatives which increases employment structurally. In other words, it must be kept up against structural employment and not all sorts of fine terms that you can come up with and which you think sounds better, or else. Is it understood correctly, or is it the Enhedslisten's view of the understanding paper to be taken into account?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908141651	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908141652	It is true that we can call that a lot of things. We are actually concerned about having people in work, and that is what this is all about. So if you take people out of work, you have to come up with initiatives that at least match it and drive people or find initiatives to get people into work. So the rapporteur is right in saying that we must be able to make up how many people we get in work if decisions are taken that pull people out of employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908141724	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908141726	Sophie Løhde, I think it should be. I'm sorry! ) But it's not easy either). We're used to changing a little sometimes. Yeah, I don't know what it is, but go ahead). At least it was a Sophie. Okay, so no new methods of calculation have been invented among the parties around the understanding paper. It is the structural employment, and hence the usual methods of calculation, that are used in the Ministry of Finance, which is what the Radical Left is all about, in order to compensate one for one, so that if one reduces employment structurally, it must be matched to one of the initiatives which increases employment structurally. I see that the rapporteur is nodding. It is a good thing to clarify this, because I could see that there was at least another understanding elsewhere in the party circle about the understanding paper. All I have to say is that if the government had to make an agreement on so-called early retirement for a selected group of healthy people, that is to say, that they should be able to withdraw earlier, is it also in the context of the financial law agreement that the Radical Left would argue that decisions have to be taken which, on the other hand, increase structural employment when the government is starting to pull 10,000 people out of work?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908141843	Thank you to Mrs Sophie Løhde! Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908141846	Thank you. Well, it's not easy with more Sofier either. However, it usually succeeds. In relation to the question: that is why, as rapporteur, I also asked the Socialist rapporteur for an overall economic plan. And yes, we've said that we're gonna do the math board. We do these things every year by the Finance Act. Now there are many different proposals at stake, and now we have to see where things are going, but I still miss an overall economic plan from the government, where I can see how things are related to how employment is linked, how the future economy is linked. We shall continue to ask for this, and I thank the author for giving me another opportunity to ask for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908141932	Thank you. Then it's mr. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908141935	Thank you very much. On the Radicals website, they describe the desire to lower the marginal tax from 56 per cent. down to about 50%. Is it so that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen can give a status on whether it is still the policy of the Radicals and whether they will demand a reduction in the top tax on the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908141958	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908141959	It is the policy of the Radicals that we must have higher taxes on what we want less and lower on what we want more of. It's so easy to explain. This means that we would like to reduce the tax on labour, because we would like to see more of that. So it's radical politics. But we also stand by the paper of understanding, which the government is committed to, and that is why we are not proposing to abolish top tax during this period.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908142032	Here you go, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908142033	So the Radicals think that if you do not lower the top tax, that is to say keep it where it is, it is necessary that people spend more money in Denmark, that is to say that we pay more in taxes, or does Sofie Carsten Nielsen think that it would be sensible to lower the top tax immediately so that we can get society back on track?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908142058	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908142059	In fact, I would rather give priority to other areas. I would very much like to see a green tax reform, because that is almost the most important thing for us right now, so that we can get the green transition of the economy going. I have a reasonable, undogmatic relationship with taxes, and I do not have such an ideological view of taxes. I think we should use it as a tool when it makes sense, and it makes good sense to lower the tax on work when you want more of it. Conversely, it makes very good sense now to have the economic tool, it is to introduce a CO2 It has the utmost priority for us in the field of taxation now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908142146	Thank you. Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908142150	Thank you. The rapporteur has a heavy responsibility on his shoulders as a support party for the Social Democratic Government, because, like when we had a bourgeois government, where it was the task of the Danish People's Party to ensure that the economy did not go too well, it is now up to the Radical Left to ensure that the economy does not go too badly. It is a little difficult to see how this is going to happen, and that is also what several questions have actually been circling. So what are the reforms that the Radical Left is actually going to tackle? If we are talking about 10,000 or more people being pulled out in relation to the labour supply, then there is something that needs to be done, and then we cannot just have some festive phrases about it having to be compensated, etc., because then there will have to be some proper reforms. Those were not top tax concessions, we were told under the Conservatives' question, and that is fair enough, because I cannot recommend too much concern for that. But what is it? What are the reforms that the Radical Left sees as being? If this is something that needs to be increased by tens of thousands of people in increased labour supply, then it requires you to get into the right reform fund and not just talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908142307	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908142308	Well, I agree that it is massive if the Socialists agree by a majority to withdraw 9 000, I think, in this proposal, out of employment. Well, that's a lot to do. I thank you for the credit for the great responsibility. The rapporteur knows all about, I assume, what it means to bear such a heavy responsibility on its shoulders. It is true that a great deal needs to be done. Now it gives so fortunately, we can see in the government's own play here, a lot. If, for example, you're gonna have to... In fact, the reduction in the threshold also contributes to employment to a greater extent than we have seen in the past. We have other suggestions, but I will not be sneaking them up. I have even aired some of them from the more theoretical box, but it is of course the responsibility of the government to make proposals on how to increase employment. It is not we who have put forward proposals to weaken employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908142420	Here you go, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908142422	But that's something you can discuss. After all, it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen who is responsible for the government being a government. The Radical Left sits in the Folketing with 16 seats, so it is the Radical Left's responsibility, which policy is being pursued, because the Radical Left has inserted the government with an understanding paper that these things must be balanced. After all, it is in itself a dispute with 40 years of reform policy that things now have to be balanced. After all, we should continue to make real labour supply reforms on the shoulders of Niels Helveg Petersen, Mrs Marianne Jelved and others' sound policies that have helped to ensure a proper economy in this country. Now you have dropped those ambitions, but it will be exciting if you live up to the responsibility of at least getting geldess through the next few years.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908142511	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908142512	That is quite right, and that is the responsibility that we bear and which we must then take the consequence of if it cannot be achieved. It is quite clear that the government is obliged to do so, and that is why I expect it to live up to it. It must, because that is the agreement. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille knows everything about what it means to do things on the board all the time, the advantages and disadvantages of supporting something or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908142545	Thank you. And then there's no more questioners. That is why we now have the next rapporteur, Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908142604	I was on maternity leave this spring, corona had shut down the country, and it was a rather special experience. That calls for a rematch, so I'm gonna take this one more time in the spring, and I hope things are going better this time. I think, on the whole, you all did a great job. After all, there is a time for disagreement and a time for putting aside our differences, and then there is a time for all of us to fight for what we are elected for and for. After all, the Corona crisis brought a sad and serious background to a public and joint conversation about the big and important things. How do we organize our society in the best possible way? Why can't we always have these standards for our children? Why does it take another crisis before there are enough hands? Why is there only clean air when the crisis is scratching? Why do we work the most when we have little children? And why are we talking about growth, growth, growth and wealth without talking about why we should get richer? These are the major existential issues that were and are being raised by the crisis, and I hope that we, as Parliament, will not fail that conversation. Our answers will, of course, be very different, and so must they be, but I hope that we will use the opportunity to discuss the big picture. Of course, the big picture also includes the climate crisis. We cannot put the corona crisis over the climate crisis; we cannot see the two things that each other's opposites must be dealt with, and it cannot wait. The climate crisis is basically about our survival, about a habitable planet that, at worst, is marred by food shortages, social unrest and civil wars, and about hundreds of millions of climate refugees. And if one only goes up in crowns and ears, one can of course note that COWI and Realdania have estimated that only costs of storm tides and rising water levels cost Denmark in the region of 1,000 billion. kr. For the next 100 years. The capital alone will have to spend a quarter of its total budget on repairs to houses and infrastructure. Investing in green conversion is smart business, it is timely care, but it is above all our moral duty, especially to those who come. Crisis scratches most at the bottom, and I also find it a little telling that we can see the stock indices galloping at home and in the United States, while tens of thousands of people at home lose their jobs. We have all largely agreed on the world's most ambitious climate targets, but until real action is taken, these are just words, because at the same time we are also one of the countries in the world that is the most climate-laden measure per year. citizen. And in the SF we lack that this existential seriousness, which we have all signed up to at some point, is also reflected in the government's financial bill. Because where's the climate war chest? In the SF, we want us to use a large part of the war fund to hold hands under Danish jobs by advancing green investments and initiatives, which in any case must be made and done despite an exceptional crisis that we are currently seeing, and despite the great crisis packages that you all largely adopted in the spring. I think you've spent around 78 billion. kr. In borrowed money, and I think that's really nice and good... it was necessary. Despite this, the Danish economy is still sound, and it can be a little difficult to explain why one can at the same time borrow so much money and spend so much money holding hands under the economy and why it is wise and responsible economic policy to spend a lot of money when it is done wisely. That is also what we are talking about now, namely that we must stop seeing the wise and responsible investments in the future as costs, as costs alone. Because it's gonna be so much more expensive if we don't do something. In the SF, we'll be coming with our own little financial act soon. I would also like to acknowledge that the government as the most natural in the world covers the demographic trait. It's a little technical discussion... many would say an incredibly boring discussion... but which is also very, very important and which we have had in here for many years. But it seems to have become so normal that bourgeois think tanks naturally recognise it, and when you look at what remains of the so-called room for manoeuvre, you have of course withdrawn the demographic move already, because of course in a welfare society like Denmark we have to cover it for you when there are more older and more children. There are many good things about the government's financial bill proposals, but what I have highlighted today is that we think that it is the lack of great ambition in the climate area that shines through and which is one of the things we want to focus on, of course, along with the investments in our welfare society that are needed. I have nothing more to say in the end than that I actually meant it seriously when I started my speech by praising all of you. It's probably hard to see when you're sitting in here and you have your political differences in mind, but I think, and I think this applies to the majority of the population, that you were very impressed by how much bullshit and squabbling there are usually from in here how the parties could stand together when it really matters. That's really nice! And then just a little flick: I also think it's a little inconvenient to talk so much about how we debt Denmark when you all helped to do it in the most handsome and responsible way in the spring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908143345	Thank you. There is a queue of nine so far, so there will be some time on the platform for Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. The first to take the floor is Mr Seligman. Troels Lund Poulsen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908143357	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. Now the SF's rapporteur tells us that SF has not presented any financial legislation yet, and that is also quite fine, but what kind of ideas does SF do in relation to future growth? I believe that this is an agenda on which, after all, we agree on cross-party issues is important. Then you can always discuss what kind of growth it should be. But what does SF do with thoughts in this regard?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908143427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908143428	Thank you for the question. First of all, and I think we all agree on this, we will have to keep our hands on the companies and the jobs we already have, and that is also what I praised for doing, I think, quite well in the spring. In addition, there is also the initiatives that have been taken in the field of entrepreneurship. In SF we come up with some more suggestions on how to strengthen entrepreneurship, even in a time of crisis. We will have that in the autumn when we discuss it over at the Minister for Economic Affairs. One of the things that was really important to us was to have a maternity fund for self-employed people, because this has been one of the major reasons why many women in particular do not become self-employed. When we want to bring forward green investments in Denmark, even our industrial companies are very green and contribute to solutions around the world, whether it is thermostats, whether it is pumps or what it is, because then it is something that will also greatly benefit Danish companies, even when we bring forward investments here at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908143536	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908143537	Thank you for that; I look forward to hearing more about that when the SF presents its proposals. Then I have another question, and it's more just in relation to this whole digital agenda, which I know SF has also been very concerned about in the past: what does SF think about shutting down the broadband pool? Does the SF continue to believe that a broadband pool is needed, or should it be scrapped, just as the government has now set up?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908143600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908143601	In SF, we think it is absolutely crucial that we have proper coverage throughout the country, especially now that 5G is starting to be deployed and we know that more and more services are becoming dependent on proper coverage. After all, we cannot ask people to live somewhere in the country where you cannot get an ambulance out or where you cannot get telemedicine or some of the other things that you start to demand and that you are completely dependent on having a proper network connection. It is absurd that we still have places in the country where there is such poor coverage. So my quick answer is: I am Greek Catholic, in relation to whether that is one or the other solution, as long as we just ensure that there is better coverage than today. And it costs money.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908143649	Then it's mr. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908143652	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would actually like to ask about the minimum standards that SF actually received last year, but which, of course, has a long approach path. It's not until 2025, it's fully implemented. I understand from the President, Pia Olsen Dyhr, that it will be one of the requirements of the financial law negotiations that it should be brought forward. That can be sympathetic enough, of course. My question to the rapporteur is: how will it be ensured that this does not mean that municipalities have to cut back on other welfare areas? It would be a real shame to get something good in one area, if there is another area that has to stand for shots. So how does the SF plan to implement minimum standards in day-care institutions without it going into carambola with other welfare areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908143736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908143737	Thank you for the question. When we had the discussion with the government last year, it was also a discussion about both what it costs, how quickly it should be arranged and what should be dropped off in the years to come and at the end of the year. In the advance we want, of course, the money must accompany one to one. In other words, when we tell the municipalities that there must be minimum standards out there, it costs. It also costs to bring it forward for a year, which is why we must, of course, find money for it in the financial law negotiations. As I have said, we will come with our own draft budget as soon as possible, where it is also financed. The more technical discussion on what to expect, etc., we had in full last year, but we can also take it back this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908143833	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908143834	This is also positive, but we know very well that when you add it to the municipalities, there will be some sort of average consideration. Some municipalities win a little, and some municipalities lose a little. That is why the Danish People's Party has put forward this proposal that, when it is introduced in one area, it should also be introduced in another large area, and it is in the area of the elderly, so that it is not the area of the elderly and children that will be like fighting each other. You have statutory standards in the area of children, but you do not have them in the area of the elderly. So how does the rapporteur view with SF glasses that one might consider that when one introduces it in the area of children, it also introduces it in the area of the elderly, because then we are sure that we will not have that fight?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908143917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908143918	It was, among other things. in the light of the fact that the money given to the elderly area was largely generated by DF and went to all sorts of local needs. That was why we said that these should be statutory minimum standards. Because if you say that the children should have a right to have enough educators, then we have to get it legally. This was the discussion we had with the municipalities too, and now the rapporteur himself is a member of a municipal council and they were not all equally happy about it. So that is why the legal framework ensures that the funds are used one for one, and I will not deny that we are also open to looking at it in the area of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908144003	Then it is Mrs Victoria Velasquez from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908144003-2	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech and thank you for your good cooperation. It is no secret that the rapporteur has been missing while she was on maternity leave and, therefore, we should not be spared the rapporteur again; but then it is good that there are some good alternates. Thanks for the speech. There is a lot that we agree with, especially the green call and the emphasis that we have to invest in jobs, that we have to create jobs and use the green transition for it. I just want to hear what the rapporteur thinks about the fact that, unfortunately, it does not change the fact that thousands of people are unemployed, has lost their jobs. And we know that even more will be in the unemployment queue once their notice has expired. Will the rapporteur help to work hard to restore the daily allowance? After all, we can see that both the agreement on compensation for wages and, most recently, the tripartite agreement on the division of labour shows that the benefits have been eroded • the coverage rate is not sufficient. I'd like to know if the SF will help restore the benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908144108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908144109	This is a major priority for us, and our employment rapporteur, who is sitting in this Chamber, is very concerned about this; the problem was big enough if it happened for a single year, but it is structural and it continues and continues and continues. This also means that you get a level of coverage that is ultimately so low that people, if they have the opportunity, are either looking for private insurance schemes or that support for the system itself is falling because it is not adequate enough. Now it does not make any sense for me to reveal everything we include in our draft budget, but there it is part of the proposal, and it is also something that our rapporteur is very concerned about, so I think we are on the same side of it. And thank you for those nice words.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908144208	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908144209	So it's such a small teaser compared to keeping up with when your finance bill is presented. I hope that the recovery of daily allowances is a high priority so that together we can strengthen the fight to restore them. That's one part. I also hope that we agree that the best thing is, of course, to get a job so that you can contribute to the welfare and the green transition. Therefore, I would like to hear what some considerations SF have done, both in terms of purchasing policy, but also in terms of creating these green jobs so that we can get people to work quickly. If the rapporteur wishes to put a few words on it, I would like to thank him for this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908144249	Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908144250	Thank you. If I may just use the green transition a little wider than when we talk about climate, which is of course a huge and important task in itself, then I would say that one of the things we have put very high on the agenda and set aside money for, is the clean-up of these enormously extensive toxic sites that we have around Denmark, which we call generational pollutions, because they have been there for generations, and which is a very shameful stain on the non-existent nature and environmental policy of the past. Cheminova is an example. I do not remember how many jobs there are in it, but there are a number of jobs associated with it, both in terms of what to say, what to say, the previous work, and when it has to be actually removed. Fortunately, it does not take years of vvm and everything else to get it started.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908144343	Then it is Mrs Hanne Bjørn-Klausen from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908144345	Thank you. SF has said that you want to take money from certain free and private schools with too many pupils from resourceful families and then give money to schools with a large share of pupils from resourceless families. That is why I would like to hear: is it SF's view that you should have a worse education than you do today, because you come from the wrong postal numbers with the wrong parents, and in this case, the wrong parents are such resourceful parents? And is it also SF's view that the middle class should then have more difficulty in choosing a private school, because it will be more expensive as a result of private schools losing money?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908144427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908144428	The discussion about private schools in Denmark is often very muddy, and it is not a criticism that I am addressing the questioner, but it is, of course, because there are some different issues, I think. In SF we are strongly in favour of local ownership of the development of your local area, starting private schools where your primary school may have been closed. It may be a very mixed composition of pupils which arises because of it, because it is almost one to one is a substitute for the primary school that has been abandoned. And there we see a student composition that is extremely skewed. We want both primary schools, but also private schools, which are very mixed, because we think that the best thing for our children is to go to school with people who are not necessarily similar to themselves. And that's why we say that the grant becomes dependent, not on the postal number, but on the student composition.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908144544	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908144546	Thank you. I just need to understand that. So the rapporteur believes that there should be state interference in how free and private schools can organize themselves and on what they base their training principles so that they are no longer free, but that it is suddenly the state that has to interfere in what composition is in schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908144608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908144609	Of course, they are free to receive a lower grant if they insist on having only a very uniform pupil composition. It's a freedom you can choose. We're just saying that when you get a state subsidy, there are also some things that are tied up on it. And there the grant will be different and higher if you have a mixed pupil composition than if you have a student composition that is very uniform. And that is entirely up to us, because otherwise you can just choose to make a school where there is no state subsidy at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908144651	Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908144652	Thank you very much, and thank you for your speech. As I hear the speech and also previous comments, the rapporteur, like me, is asking for green initiatives, more green initiatives, in the government's draft budget. But I also heard some questions earlier in relation to putting money into the room for manoeuvre, for example. a CO 2 So I just need confirmation: SF will also be willing to use space to ensure that we get reduced CO 2
ParlaMint-DK_20200908144726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908144727	If it sounded that way, it was because I didn't make myself clear enough. We are not interested in using the room for manoeuvre for a green transition across the board, and when we are not, it is because the room for manoeuvre that remains, if we do not extend it with new initiatives, is roughly the same as the welfare development that will be if we both want to cover the demographic trait, and indeed also the welfare increase that is going to happen in civil life, which we also want to see covered. That's about what's room for. That is why we say very clearly that the initiatives that need to be taken in the areas of climate, nature and the green transition in general must be funded alongside our optics.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908144818	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908144820	Okay, but I just need to understand if it's technique or politics for now to be completely honest. Is it such a categorization that if a greater room for manoeuvre cannot be created, then it is only a pity, and then the green transition will have to wait? Or will the SF undertake to expand the scope? For that is really what it takes to finance the green conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908144846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908144847	Yes, it can be said that it can be both politics and technology at the same time. If we choose jointly to expand the scope significantly, so that there is more room for manoeuvre than what it takes to cover the welfare investments we would like to make, then of course the remaining room for manoeuvre can be used on the green, if that is what you are looking at. If, instead, we see such cross-financing, that is to say we are financing the green initiatives through a green tax reform, which the Radicals would like to see too, then that is also fine. So in this way it may well alone be a question of technology, where the money is found, so to speak. We are just saying that, in addition to the demographic move, we will also have covered the increase in prosperity that is also happening next door, and that requires 1% in the region.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908144949	I told you before that there was a speech queue of eight. It's still gone, so there's more coming in here along the way so people can stay ready, and now it's first, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908144959	Thank you. The rapporteur said that it did not just understand why the stock market is galloping out there, and I can say briefly that there are four main reasons for this. In the future, the market looks into a bnp increase around 4.1 in 2021; in addition, there is the allocation of funds where you cannot place them anywhere else that makes sense; then money is pumped out from central banks; and finally, the C25 index has a composition that makes you stand strongly in pharmaceutical companies. It's just like that for information here. But my question is a little more about the fact that when we are about to negotiate on car taxation, I would like to hear how the SF will make sure that ordinary families of children out there, who do not live in the big cities, can also afford to have a bee, because they cannot afford to simply switch to an electric car with the current system; for as it is now, it gives the biggest gain to those who have the highest deci sion in the income group. So how will SF make sure that children's families, who do not have a high income, can also drive around in cars and that they will not be much higher than what is now the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908145055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908145056	First of all, thank you for the lesson in how the stock markets both in Denmark and in the USA are screwed together. I do not know whether the stock market in the United States is so influenced by what our financial statement says. But it is not a discussion we have to take now, because otherwise I will not be able to answer it with the cars. I trust that what the rapporteur is talking about is what the SF wants and not what the Eldrup Commission has put forward. We want a tax structure that allows green cars, i.e. low-emission and electric cars, to enter a price range where ordinary people can be involved. We cannot do that everywhere now, and that requires, of course, a quite significant change in our entire tax structure compared to today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908145154	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908145155	But even if you remove the taxes on electric cars, it costs a great deal to produce them now, so they want that price, and then it has to be financed if you remove the tax on electric cars, and I hear that SF will do that by prohibiting the purchase of fossil fuel cars. This means that there are a lot of people whose cars are worth much less because they cannot get rid of them, and they are so tied to those cars which then also receive a higher current taxation, as I understand the SF's proposal. This means that there are a lot of families with children who cannot afford to buy new electric cars because they do not just have 600,000 kroner. To buy these new cars. They cannot be allowed to borrow the money, which is why they stand and are tied to these cars that they already have, which will then just get a higher tax. For a new electric car?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908145237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908145238	Well, we're not talking about cars worth 600,000 kroner. When we talk about having a stop for the sale of new petrol cars, it does not mean a stop for the sale of second-hand cars. That is why we are getting quite a long way in the future, where there is still a second-hand car market for petrol cars, but it is also true that we need some investment to make electric cars cheap enough. Because I would like to admit to the rapporteur that for some cars it is not enough just to remove the charges, but that some kind of subsidy model will then have to be applied.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908145316	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908145319	I'd also like to ask about the electric car thing. Because if nothing happens here in the context of the financial law negotiations, there will suddenly have to be a higher registration fee on electric cars. That is why we are going to discuss it. Back in 2015, there was no registration fee at all on electric cars, but only money had been found to make it 2015 with, so in 2016 a tax was then to be introduced again, and social democracy, the Left, Radical and the Danish People's Party joined forces to introduce a new registration fee on electric cars. SF was very opposed to it. SF said they didn't want a registration fee on electric cars. Today, so much everyone, especially red people, says: we cannot do without the money from a registration fee on cars. Is SF also the country now, where SF also thinks that now we should have a proper registration fee on electric cars, because it is more important to get money in the Treasury than that electric cars are being spread in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908145418	Mrs Lise Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908145419	It is true that we were very opposed to the agreement that was reached and, as I have indeed heard several of the parties subsequently, regretting that it was totally putting a plug in the market. After all, virtually no electric cars were sold in the years after, which was one of the reasons why the Eldrup Commission was set up because you could see the morass you had come in. Firstly, there are at least a large number of electric cars that do not need to be taxed; and secondly, you have to make it more attractive both in relation to infrastructure and any advantages you may have as an electric car owner. It is true that the gap that is being struck has only increased because, for example, the Liberal Alliance. was the banner driver for three years in line lowering the registration tax on petrol cars. We could have spent that money well now in this change.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908145523	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908145524	Yes, it actually made the hole smaller, because the less tax there is on petrol cars, the less a hole there will be when people change to green cars. But am I to understand that, unfortunately, the SF has now changed its mind and believes that it is absolutely necessary to have registration fees on at least some electric cars? I think that is an unfortunate change of attitude. I think that we should promote the green transition and that we should make it beneficial for people to buy green cars. However, on SF I understand that only some green cars should be exempted from registration fee, while SF now backs up that other green cars should be subject to registration fee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908145602	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908145603	I do not really know what the rapporteur is talking about. There is no change in our policy. We have always believed that there must be a fairly large proportion of electric cars that must be freed, so that there is a wide range of models for people to choose from, which cannot afford, for example, a Tesla, but that it is also okay that you have a value element in your tax structure, including among electric cars. On top of that, one of the proposals on road pricing, which the Eldrupkommission said was not a good idea, is now being discussed, but another form of payment for driving on the roads. Well, we also have a problem of congestion, and the problem of congestion is not going to be greater or smaller by whether it is electric cars or petrol cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908145646	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908145649	Thank you very much. It may be a little late, but I would nevertheless like to welcome the rapporteur back. It is good to see the rapporteur on the platform. And we are in the Alternative like SF frustrated that the Finance Act contains so few green ambitions. That is why our question today is about money, a lot of money. Now that we have been able to borrow many billions for the corona crisis in a very short time and very efficiently, because we have such a good credit rating, a way of extending the room for manoeuvre or financing the green transition, in particular CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20200908145745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908145745-2	I welcome the question because I think that the discussion here today has mainly been about the government now going to the 0.5 percent limit. The limit that we have set for ourselves, because the Danish budget law is stricter than the EU law. Then the discussion is very much about the fact that we have now gone to the limit of what is almost physically possible. And, of course, that's not true. You have gone to the limit that you have set for yourself and which is a fine limit to have in normal times. In normal times it is irresponsible to go over a minus of 0.5, because there is no reason for that. If you have an okay economy, then you should keep your own budgets and not loan finance for the feast. In fact, I fully agree with that. It's not actually a criticism of the government. It is a criticism of those who criticise the government for acting completely irresponsible. In fact, from Brussels, the announcement is that if you have a fairly healthy economy, then it is irresponsible not to go any further. If you have a healthy economy like Denmark, you should keep your hand under it by lending in a wise way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908145915	Thank you! I am therefore also responsible for responsible time. Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908145919	Thank you. I very much agree with the SF that these are not normal times. We have a corona crisis which, in our opinion, is being replaced by an even greater crisis, and that is why it is now time to look at the provision of funds that can really boost the green transition. And since it is short-term investment, as far as I can see, it can also work. Will the SF help to see if it can really be a way of throwing the money after the green transition that is really necessary? Because when we talk about millions, it is too small, compared to what it takes, if we are to achieve just our own climate ambitions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908150001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908150002	I believe that there are a great many things we can do by redeploying, for example. our tax and tax structure. I believe that there are a great many ways we can go before we need to finance loans. But if all those things are exhausted, all the roads are exhausted, then this is what I was trying to stress the seriousness of in my speech on an existential issue. It is not something about whether we can disagree on how much we should spend on the operation of our welfare society for a single year. This is a completely fundamental question. That is why, by its very nature, we can go even further. This means that if you want to, you don't have to stay within the 0.5. It's a play that's being performed in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908150101	Then it is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908150103	In other words, sometimes it sounds like we're messing up economic and structural policies. And in a situation where we have a difficult economic situation, it is important that we pursue a sensible economic policy where we stimulate. But it is also important that we do not change structures, because if we change structures at a time when the economy is cramped, we do so with the wrong assumptions. There it is sometimes that we mess things up a little. So when we criticise the Socialists, we criticise them very much for the structural policy that they are also pursuing here, with higher taxes that lead to lower employment and less growth. As I understand it, SF also wants us to look at higher benefits in general with the Service Commission. It is also structural policy, and that is what I would like to ask the rapporteur. Does the SF intend to make structural policy changes here, such as: to increase benefits, which in the long term will make Denmark poorer?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908150201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908150202	I agree that there is a difference between short-term policy and structural policy. However, I find it unfortunately significant for the debate that the rapporteur says that we must not change structural policy, that we must not change structural policy. Well, that's what we have to do. We are in an absolutely crucial situation right now. What we've been thinking about as normal times isn't safe coming back. As recently as today, tens of thousands of people have been sent home to work again from home. We do not know when the normal is going back, nor is it certain that it is particularly desirable. That is why I just believe that maintaining that we must not change the structures is not the way in which we finance things. I simply cannot sign a conservatism. We can easily disagree on how to change the structures, but I see nothing more than that we will of course have to change them. In other words, we are facing a galloping climate crisis, so at least we need to create a completely different tax and tax policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908150314	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908150316	So that means that the SF believes that the corona epidemic is structural and that it therefore needs structural solutions? It does not matter when economic wise men and others say that structural policy must be kept in check and focus on cyclical policy, because economic policy stimulates here and now. Personally, I am more optimistic. I believe that at some point we are actually going to get over the epidemic and that, therefore, we should not be adapting society to the fact that people have to be sent home because there is an increase in the number of sick people in this area. Well, I just have to say that I am surprised that you completely ignore what a recognised economy is and just claim that it is conservatism. By the way, I am a liberal, so that is not what drives me, but it is more a question of actually listening to those who know more.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908150400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908150402	In fact, the choice of words conservatism was not at all a criticism of the Conservatives, because at least when they talk about it they understand that the climate crisis requires structural changes. We cannot continue to do what we have done. We can easily have different views on how to behave differently, but to continue on the same track that we have been driving in so far is not going. And I don't think you can find a single mainstream economist anymore, which means you can continue business as usual. But I do not think that is the case; I think the rapporteur would really like to ask whether we would like some higher benefits. And if the question is just that, I can answer yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908150452	Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908150454	So let's keep this up. At the beginning of the new year, the long-awaited Service Commission comes up with their recommendations, and in this context I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it is still a demand from the SF that the ceiling for cash benefits be torn down, that the integration benefit be abolished. And if it continues to be a demand from the SF that I could imagine it still gone is how does the SF intend to finance it, for the Minister of Finance has set 0 DKK. In his draft budget?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908150531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908150532	The SF is not in government right now, and that is why I cannot do that either, I might not be able to dictate what the Minister of Finance intends to drop off in his draft budget, so the rapporteur, Mr. Morten Dahlin, ask the Minister for Finance; nor are we in the same party. But if Mr. Morten Dahlin confines himself to asking what I mean and what the SF means, so of course we mean the same thing that we have meant all along, in relation to the cash aid ceiling, and we have funded that in our own policy. And I will be happy to send a signed copy in a week's time when our draft budget is ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908150621	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908150623	Thank you. I'll look forward to reading that. I just found that the Minister for Finance had not dropped any money off, and therefore I asked how the SF would finance it, so there is really no reason for the great confusion. Could the SF see itself in an agreement on a new benefit system without the ceiling being removed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908150642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908150645	Of course, the ceiling on cash benefits must be removed, which we in the SF have never concealed is crucial for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908150653	Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908150657	Thank you. I'd like to ask the SF about the elderly area. It was so in the last election campaign that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr and my chairman, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl visited a nursing home and agreed that an extra billion should be added to the elderly area, also in addition to the demographic features. In the last finance law there was a small pool for the elderly area. More money was spent on abolishing the user fee for Danish education than was given to the elderly. And in this draft Finance Act, there is not much left for the elderly either. So I would like to hear the SF's rapporteur on what the SF will go to the negotiations on the Finance Act with, and also in relation to this pact that was concluded, that the elderly area should be added an extra billion. I also believe that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr said that the addition of funds in relation to the demographic move would simply be to lay down the bottom that is today and that more funding would be needed. I would like to hear the rapporteur's response to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908150801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908150802	In that discussion about the elderly, I do not think the questioner can confuse it, because there are two different discussions. One is how we fund the elderly in general. After all, I started by commending the government for what the governments supported by the DF have never been able to do, namely to cover the fact that there are more older people, one to one. I think it has been unacceptable that people have pretended to have proper care for the elderly without covering the demographic features. But that has changed now, and it has become the new normal, and I hope that the policy supported by DF, where the area of elderly people was underfunded, will not ever be reversed. In addition, the elderly also require a boost, and then I would like to give a commendation to DF. Despite the fact that governments that have underfunded the elderly have always been supported, this has been their main priority and has also been given money for it. But as Mr. René Christensen also mentioned that money has not always ended up in the right place. It may be that you have to look at it. The proposal we are sending out also provides for an economic increase in the focus on the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908150919	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908150920	I asked you about the extra billion. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr said that more funding would be needed, in addition to what had been set aside. That's like what they said in that campaign. Then I would like to hear from the SF about minimum standards in the area of the elderly. Is that something SF supports? In the Danish People's Party we have proposed an elderly law where care is also written in where the cutting-card system is written in. So you get several things written into the Older Law. I would like to know if SF can back an old law with e.g. I'd say the government brings the child's law. Then we could all stand together in this room to get an old law made, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908150959	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908151000	Thank you. To the end of the very comprehensive question: it will simply be too detailed for me to answer it now. The questioner must speak to the SF's older rapporteur about this. However, in relation to the start of the question, which was about whether SF is in favour of minimum standards in the area of the elderly, I would like to say exactly the same thing as I said to the honourable Member of the questioner, Mr President. René Christensen, namely that we are not opposed to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908151031	Then it's Mrs. Sophie Løhde from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908151034	Thank you. I just want to hear the SF's rapporteur when it can be expected that the nature plan, such as the chairman of the SF and the chairman of the Social Democratic Party, now the Prime Minister, will ever see the light of day, because one went to the polls and promised the Danes before the parliamentary elections that it would come within 100 days if one got the government's responsibility. It's been 400 days now. When's the last time that nature plan comes?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908151101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908151102	That's what I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908151106	Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908151109	But is it because it is something that Enhedslisten and Radical Left and others have fought for not to come into existence since it was not already fulfilled with last year's Finance Act, which should of course be there, the promise was realized when one promised the Danes a natural plan within 100 days? Now we are facing more than 400 days, and no plan of nature has yet come, and I do not think it is something that Enhedslisten and Radicals have fought quite violently against and said it must not come for God's sake. So perhaps SF could say here that it will be a prerequisite for SF's participation in a finance law that a nature plan was put in place before the turn of the year, so that at least no more than 500 days should go by when you promised 100 days.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908151148	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908151149	I do not know whether the rapporteur has come to terms with this, but my party chairman, Pia Olsen Dyhr, has been out with the rake after this should fall into place. This is something we want very much. We're impatient. We also think it is a joint promise that has been made. That is also something we place money on in our draft budget. So we are just as impatient as I can hear Mrs Sophie Løhde is in relation to getting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908151226	Then it's mr. Niels Flemming Hansen from Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908151228	Thank you very much for the floor, thank you for your speech and thank you for the praises to the Conservatives, which we very much appreciate. Could the rapporteur perhaps lift a little bit of the veil about how one intends to ensure that Denmark becomes a richer society and increases employment in this draft budget which the rapporteur sends signed out to the Parliamentary Assembly? I would very much like to receive that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908151255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908151257	Well, as I said in my speech, I praised the parties of the Folketing for having owed Denmark and spent 78 billion. kr. in the spring to hold hands under Denmark, Danish companies and Danish workplaces. I may smile a little, but the rose is sincere. I think it was very good work, and Denmark is one of the countries that has best made it through the crisis. And we will probably have to keep doing that for a while yet, i.e. actively holding hands under Danish jobs and Danish companies, because we are a small, open economy, and we will also have to look after our companies and jobs when the world around us is in crisis. Therefore, we have said in the SF that we would like to use a large part of this war fund, as the government has announced, to hold hands under Danish companies; it may be in the form of the advance of green investments.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908151401	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908151402	Thank you. And precisely green investment is very, very interesting if we, for example, are. looks at the generational shift tax, which is 15%. After all, there is a drain on the company's own funds in order to make wages for the new owner, so that he or she can buy into the company, and as equity is gone, there is no money to finance a green conversion in a company. What does the rapporteur think about this? I mean, our 23,000 companies are gonna be generations-changing here in the next 10 years, so what do you think there?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908151440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908151441	In the SF we think that of course you have to pay your inheritance tax like everyone else, but of course it has to be done in a way so that nobody gets into trouble with it. And that is also why it has been proposed to me that it is the Socialists who have proposed extending the 15-year grace period so far to 30 years, and we support that. We think that is okay, and that also means that it is not something you will be able to feel, but of course you have to pay your inheritance tax, just like everyone else has to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908151516	The last one we reach in this round is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908151521	Thank you. I have to come back to the question that my good colleague from Conservatives raised here a moment ago to the free schools. As I understand it, the SF's financial rapporteur said that it was actually prepared to cut subsidies for free schools, but on the basis of the composition of pupils. I would like the rapporteur to be able to describe it a little more in some way. Well, how is it that the SF is going to give money to the free schools in the future? On what basis do they need this money?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908151601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908151603	Thank you for the opportunity to say a little more about it too, because you don't have that long an answer time up here. When it comes to private and free schools, there may be various reasons for creating one or sending one's children there. One reason may be that your primary school, where you live, is simply closed and the parents decide to set up a free or private school, and we very much support it in the SF that you do. It will also often be with a mixed composition of pupils, because it is the children who live in the area that need a school to go to. In many cities we see the opposite. There we see profile schools • whether they are Muslim free schools, or whether they are private schools in areas where there may be a very similar demographic population • so some schools where the diversity is not present, and that is what we think is unfortunate. Unfortunately, we also see examples of schools which do not lift their social responsibility in relation to the pupils they take in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908151715	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908151716	It was a long and complicated explanation. So, I think it is necessary for the SF to think this into reality, because what the Financial Rapporteur for the SF says simply cannot be done in reality. What about those places where there are small free schools in perhaps 150 pupils located in the outermost regions and where there is actually no possibility of creating a mixed composition of pupils? What then are the places: should they be kept free from being pulled into the coupling rate, or how is this to be understood here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908151751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908151752	I am now from an area where there are very many such schools, because many of the primary schools are closed, and if you have socio-economic criteria, you will in most places have a rather mixed composition of pupils, which we do not see in what to say, many prosperous municipalities in the metropolitan area to give another example.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908151818	Then we thank Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, whom I think I might call Poulsen in the first place. I'm sorry. And then we have to move on in the rapporteur's line, and now it's Mr. Knox. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908151842	Thank you. This is a rather interesting debate we have today. It is also an interesting financial bill in the sense that in many ways it is a financial bill with very little substance, but with a large so-called war fund, a government reserve of approx. One-and-a-half billion. kr. and a negotiating reserve of 1.5 billion. kr. If you add it up, we are really talking about, with what has been put forward, a negotiating reserve of 1.5 billion. kr. and then something that, overall, can be called a government reserve of just about 10.5 billion. kr. for 2021. I think that is also true of the debate we have here today, which in many ways is a little more general than it usually is when we have these debates in Parliament. What is Enhedslisten's approach to what has been put forward is that what the government is doing is not delivering the necessary investments in green conversion and welfare. We have seen how thousands of people have become unemployed during the corona crisis, which is why it is incomprehensible to us that the government, with what is being put forward, will not invest more in welfare and in green conversion and in the jobs that it can create. The government is proposing a very scraped financial law on welfare and green conversion, although there is very great economic sense in investing out of the crisis. There is such a need to invest in green jobs and there is a need to restore welfare after many years of cuts and deterioration, but that opportunity is far from grasping the government. On the other hand, I can say that we, the Enhedslisten, are going to the negotiations on the Finance Act 2021 to rectify that. Because we don't just have a corona crisis. We have a climate crisis and we also have a welfare crisis. For too many years we have had to see that the money has not followed developments, and we can see that this means that quality has fallen and that employees are running too fast. We have seen that it provides unworthy conditions for the elderly and that there are too few adults for our children when we pick them up in the day care institution. We also experience as adults when we visit our parents in nursing homes, that there is no time for caring, for dignified care and for creating the optimal framework for welfare workers, that is, those who provide welfare, the citizen-friendly welfare, do not have the optimal opportunities to create the framework for what is to be a good life in the very last part of our life on Earth here in Denmark. In our view, the Finance Act, like last year, should help to correct our welfare society, which has been starving for more than a decade. It should not be the case that the Finance Act, which was last year, which was a breach of what the Finance Laws have been like for many years, becomes a lone swallow. It must be a financial law, which this time is again being followed by an ambitious financial law, which restores prosperity and ensures the green transition. It is absolutely crucial for us that we invest massively in the green transition and that we set all sails in Denmark to achieve the goal of 70%. CO2 We need a financial law that is also green, and fortunately there is no contradiction between resolving the economic crisis and the climate crisis. On the contrary. The two things are connected. Investment in green jobs and green conversion is precisely the way out It is fine that, in the current situation, the government goes to the limit of the budget law, but if we are to invest in restoring our welfare and the necessary green transition towards 2030, there is a lack of funding. There we must point out that the budget law contains a self-imposed limitation on how far one can go in relation to running a deficit, so that we can make investments in what is about averting a dangerous climate crisis. So we simply have to note that if we are to deliver the necessary investments in the recovery of welfare and deliver the necessary investments to achieve the green conversion, we simply lack funding. If it was up to us in the Enhedslisten, we should rather find the money crown by crown. An obvious place is to roll back many of the tax incentives that have been given over the years. In particular, in the years 2015-2019 under the blue governments tax and tax reductions were granted, which will cost nearly 22 billion each year. kr. I must also admit that, for example, when I am speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Does the Left and other bourgeois today hear complaining and saying: where are the government's ambitions in the climate area? Why will the government not do anything more for education? Where were you guys? Where were you when you emptied the coffers of tax reliefs, which have very much benefited the richest? Where were you when you were pursuing a policy of emptying the coffers of tax relief and at the same time pretending that there should be enough money for welfare? This was the whole exercise carried out by the blue parties in the years 2015-2019. If you'll excuse me, you get a little tired of listening to the fact that you come here and criticise a new majority for not being delivered on your ambitions when you helped empty the box so that it wasn't possible. It is possible, and it is a myth, that there should be no advice. It's a political choice. On the part of the Enhedslisten, we have a number of funding proposals that fight tax holes and tax havens and which also provide a more reasonable, that is. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. We can start by rolling back these tax and tax concessions agreed by the blue parties. We can decide that people have to pay the same tax rate of all income, whether it is wage income or share and capital income. Why is there a lower tax rate on equity and capital income? We could change that. We could make a higher inheritance tax for the richest. If we look at an economist like Thomas Piketty and others, he says that if we are not just talking about changing the inequality, but actually doing something about the inequality, there are three things we need to change: firstly, we need a more reasonable one, i.e.. higher taxation of the highest incomes, then we must have a tax on wealth, and then we must have a higher tax on inheritance. We could also do that in Denmark if we not only want to talk about combating inequality, but actually do something about it. Or we could add an extra top tax for every million kroner you make up to and including 3 million. kr. It would also be a way of increasing equality in society and creating funds for the green transition. We could also roll back the housing tax agreement that was made in 2017 and, unfortunately, just before the summer has been followed up by another housing tax agreement that provides even more tax relief to the property owners than those agreed in 2017. The result of these agreements in the housing sector is that the property owners are subject to a significant reduction in taxes. By 2030, the state loses revenue for approx. 11 billion kr. In 2035 the loss is 12.5 billion. kr. And by 2040 we will be up to 15.4 billion. kr. a year. Here again we come back to how the blue parties conduct economic policy: you empty the box by tax cuts and try to pretend that there is money for welfare, and then you try to pretend that you have a lot of ambitions that you have no idea where the money is going to meet. There are many things we can do. We could also strengthen tax control. With conservative assumptions, about 5 billion could be collected. kr. more by strengthening tax control, including, of course, strengthening tax control with the many companies that, unfortunately, are doing everything they can to juggle the tax and not pay the tax that they should do. It is a political choice how to finance the welfare of the future. Denmark is one of the richest societies in the world and we can afford to invest in good working life and a reasonable retirement age. We can also finance rights for former withdrawal, so that large groups of employees do not have to work until they are worn out, fall dead or are pushed out of the labour market long before time with the prospect of poor old age. The choice is as simple as it has always been. It is about welfare and green conversion or tax relief. Prior to the Finance Act negotiations, which will soon begin, we will soon be presenting our own draft Finance Act as a prelude to the negotiations. We look forward to the negotiations, we look forward to them, because in our view there is also enough to do to remedy the far too low level of ambition that the government has put forward. But, as I said, we look forward to these negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908152836	Thank you. Then I've got another speech line of 8, and we're gonna start with mr. Troels Lund Poulsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908152844	Thank you for that, and thank you to Enhedslisten for the speech. What I was concerned with was the whole discussion about the green transition • welfare versus room for manoeuvre and green transition. Where's the Enhedslisten? Is it also almost an ultimate demand on the part of Enhedslisten that you cannot spend money from the room for manoeuvre on the green transition, or how will you take part in this discussion here in connection with the forthcoming climate negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908152915	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908152917	We believe that the scope should be extended so that both welfare and green conversion can be re-established. It is obvious that, when we look at what has been said, we cannot afford to do so with the funding that is now available if we do not choose to take up a fight with the economic policy that has been conducted under blue governments. If a social democratic project is only to some extent to continue the status quo after blue governments have lowered taxes, and if you only want to go to the limit of the budget law, while at the same time you have a 2025 target of balance, excuse me, then any financial rapporteur in this Parliament can see that there is not enough money to both restore prosperity and invest in the green transition. It's almost a fact. And we say that we will do something about it, but that requires that we find additional funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908153012	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908153015	I am not sure that any financial rapporteur can see it, but leave it alone. So what is it that is needed to increase the room for manoeuvre? Is that what Enhedslisten has argued in the past, at least in question to me, namely that then taxes must be raised, in other words to increase the room for manoeuvre?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908153028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908153030	Yeah, you have to. For example, you have to... I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. When we are in a situation now, when we need to restore welfare, we have an elderly care that is not where it should be, we are experiencing when we pick up our children in the day care institution, that there are not enough adults, we can see that there are not enough teachers in the primary school, it is obvious that there is a need for a recovery of welfare. So we need to have a well-being that meets the full demographic trend, so that the growth of public consumption follows the growth of society as a minimum and, in addition, we also need to invest in green conversion. It'll take more money.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908153111	Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908153116	Thank you. Well, there's money to get. Non-Western immigration costs approx. 33 billion kr., right? It was a place that Enhedslisten could start. The rapporteur then says that the draft budget presented is without substance. I share Enhedslisten's concern about the welfare of elderly care, but also the area of disability, about how people with disabilities should fight to get the help they need. Now the Enhedslisten criticized part of the budget law. Does the Enhedslisten not agree that the Budget Act was adopted by a Socialist Finance Minister whose name was Bjarne Corydon? That was one thing. Then I would really like to hear: How exactly is it that Enhedslisten will lift the elderly area, and how exactly is it that Enhedslisten will lift the disability area, that is, our welfare? For now it is Enhedslisten who sits as a support party and Enhedslisten who sits with the baton and who can pressure the government to ensure some results in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908153222	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908153223	That was a lot of things. First of all, I have to say that perhaps the Danish People's Party should also read some of the answers to questions that I put to the Committee on Finance about the cost of non-Western immigration, because it is actually very, very misleading to talk about the cost of 33 billion. kr. a year. There is a large number of expenditure in the figure which would be expenditure, which would have to be borne in any case, for example. support for set-aside, the EU quota, and there is also the whole of public consumption, which includes courts, police and military. There are a large number of expenditures which are either not affected by the number of immigrants who have come to Denmark or where the number of immigrants coming to Denmark has a very small impact on the figures. If you subtract all the things that are fixed basic costs, you end up on a much, much smaller number. And if we even look at what it looks like in the future, then non-Western immigration actually ends up being a plus business. And it's not because it has to be a plus business. We help people fleeing war, for example. humanitarian reasons because we are obliged to do so. I just find it extremely misleading to use the figure 33 billion. kr. in this way, and I must recommend that the Danish People's Party read some of the answers given in the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908153346	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908153347	I think that would be even more expensive. Well, I can see that at our women's crisis centres, not Western women are over-represented. How much is it? Actually, I think the amount would be bigger. However, I would like to ask the Enhedslisten's rapporteur what the Enhedslisten will bring to the negotiating table. After all, it is a financial law debate that we have today, so we cannot wait for Enhedslisten to find out what they are bringing to the table. So what will Enhedslisten give priority to the elderly area? What will Enhedslisten give priority to the disability area? And what will Enhedslisten give priority to welfare in general? What does Enhedslisten bring to the negotiating table?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908153424	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908153425	That was the last two parts of the first question that I could not reach in the first place. However, the misleading figures relating to the cost of immigration, I would very much like to take a longer discussion with the Danish People's Party. It is true that, unfortunately, it was a social democratic government which introduced the budget law, which is even stricter than what the European Union allows. It is a completely crazy law that has had a devastating effect on our welfare societies. In relation to what we bring to the financial law negotiations, we have not come up with our financial law proposal yet. We will do so, but I can at least say so much that there will be things that we will fight for, which are both about strengthening the area of the elderly and the area of disability.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908153502	Then it is Mrs Mona Juul of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908153504	Thank you for that, thank you for a very good speech. I think it's nice when some people are passionate about the things they do so much praise for it. One thing on which I work very much with Enhedslisten's excellent rapporteur in the Ministry of Business and Industry is the conditions for entrepreneurship, and I think that sometimes we actually have a tiny amount of community between Enhedslisten and Conservatives in terms of having to do something for the self-employed, the entrepreneurs. However, it is of no use that when we sit there at one table and agree on something, at the same time sitting at another table removing what could actually be investment in entrepreneurship. After all, it is all possible from stock taxation to the fact that you are now going in and going to increase the share income tax. It could be the case that we also just had a little chat about what it really is for capital requirements that we should have for the equity companies. Where is Enhedslisten compared to that? Can you see yourself negotiating the conditions of entrepreneurs at one table and then at the same time sitting and taking the funds out of what is actually creating entrepreneurship in Denmark at the other table?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908153609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908153610	We are very concerned to see what we can do for small self-employed freelancers, combinators and others, so that they can make business easier. We can, for example. take the whole discussion on how to obtain cash benefits without shutting down your business, i.e. that there will be an entry window so that you can get cash benefits. In relation to some of those things, we think it is extremely important to look at how we can improve conditions. However, let me say that, in relation to the funding proposals that are being mentioned, which are of course related to the idea of early withdrawal, we think that there are many good, sensible elements in it, not least in view of how we can hit some of the capital funds that we do not think contribute enough, including those capital funds which, in our opinion, also do something that can best be described as outright property speculation. The government has then chosen to present a model which is about stock taxation. We could come up with other models which, in our view, might be even more precise. However, I would like to say that the financing proposal put forward in relation to early retirement is a financing proposal which we think is a good starting point for the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908153726	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908153728	Then I have to understand in this way that Enhedslisten would like to help ensure the conditions for self-employed entrepreneurs in terms of daily allowances, maternity leave, etc., but not in terms of getting new fresh capital. I am thinking that the self-employed entrepreneurs would rather choose exactly the latter. I sense that we have a tax minister who is sneaking something in here right now, so that you cannot actually invest your retirement pension in unlisted shares. Where does Enhedslisten stand in relation to that point, because it is also one of the things that helps to draw capital out of what we actually want for Denmark, namely to secure jobs and new entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908153803	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908153804	In other words, if we talk small entrepreneurs, I would say, it is typically not those who have gone on the stock market and where shares have been issued and where there is enough profit to be made, so share income tax has to be paid. That's reality. So when we talk about rolling back some of the tax cuts that have been implemented, compared to the fact that we have today, in our view, too low a tax on shares, it is not something that will hit them. It is a completely different group. It would typically be the richer part of the population who owns these shares, which would then have to pay a more reasonable tax. In relation to investment, it is also very important to say that if you have a good idea where you can make money as a company, that is also what determines whether you can obtain the funding needed to get the product out. What taxes are then paid when you make a profit is what we are really discussing in relation to Arne's pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908153910	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908153915	Thank you. It says in the understanding paper that the supply of work must be balanced. When you've taken something out, something's gotta go in. Could the Enhedslisten not point to anywhere where we could raise the job offer?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908153933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908153934	I have to say very clearly that in the understanding paper it says "work'. It doesn't say "work." There is also no structural employment. Why do I say that? That is because it was something we spent a very long time discussing in connection with the fact that the understanding paper was created. What is important to say is that we are talking about employment, and the concrete examples mentioned in the understanding paper on what employment is are, in fact, what is essential in the understanding paper, and these are also initiatives on which the four parties behind the understanding paper are very much in agreement. Among other things, we need to look at the possibility that more part-time workers in the public sector who want to go full-time should be given the opportunity to do so. We need to look at how we can reduce sickness absence. We need to make a targeted effort in terms of employment and continuing training. We need to train unskilled people to carry out some of the many professional jobs that can also be used for the green transition. And there are many other good measures on which there is, fortunately, agreement. However, it is an employment rather than a service or a structural employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908154057	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908154058	Well, then I think I can see in all silence that you should have talked a little longer about it, because apparently there is little agreement between the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten about this. Because in an earlier answer to the Left's political rapporteur it was something else. So may I not recommend that you sit down and once and for all find some clarity about what you think of this concept, because then the rest of us in the Folketing can relate to what the support parties and government think of these things? It is something worse that we cannot find out whether we should go one way or the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908154124	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908154126	There is not much reason to put ourselves together, because we have a paper that clearly says that this is about employment. And if it had been called "work service," it would have been "work service," but it did not say so. If you do a search in the paper, you will see that the text is clinically cleaned of all words called "work service" or "structural employment." What I am just glad about this paper is that, among the four parties, there is in fact a great deal of agreement that some of the things that will actually increase employment are not in the Treasury calculator, but in fact we agree that we can be implemented by the four parties, and I think that is very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908154207	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908154208	Thank you. I will not go as far as Mrs Mona Juul and thank you for a very good speech from the Enhedslisten. I still have to experience that Enhedslisten gives a very good speech about Danish economy. However, I would like to thank you for those parts of the speech where the Enhedslisten helps us in the Liberal Alliance to tell about all the results we received in the last parliamentary term in the government. We sometimes have a problem convincing our own hinterland that it was a good idea to go into government, but sir... Rune Lund helps us very well when he tells us about the over 20 billion. kr. we gave in net tax reliefs. And that was the big difference between our government and the VKO majority back in the '00s. We didn't raise taxes 287 times, like VKO did back then. We lowered taxes, and we didn't raise anyone else in return. I would like to ask Enhedslisten: Is it very important for Enhedslisten that higher taxes are put on buying electric cars in Denmark, or does Enhedslisten actually think that there should be no tax on electric cars at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908154309	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908154311	We presented a climate plan last year, where we also gave our bid on how to change transport and to achieve the green transition, and what is our starting point for transport to deliver a CO2 tonne is that we will have over 1 million electric cars by 2030. And the way it has to be done is because the electric cars will first be exempt, but among other things. also that you get a junk premium of 20,000 kr. for his old car. But as more electric cars come along, electric cars will gradually be phased into the registration system, and what is to say, structural minus, the structural gap that it strikes in the treasury, we will then finance by introducing a road tax, that is road pricing. So in the short term: Yes. In the longer term, electric cars will have to be integrated into the registration fee system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908154413	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908154414	It's a little too bad, but I heard that Mr. Rune Lund said in her speech that it's about welfare or green conversion. Of course, that burden ratio is there, and when you are a party that calls yourself both red and green, can you come up with some dilemmas: do you have to choose the red or do you have to choose the green? And then, unfortunately, I understand that the Enhedslisten in the choice between being red or green in relation to spreading green cars therefore chooses to be red because we have to
ParlaMint-DK_20200908154452	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908154454	But that is where Enhedslisten is both red and green, because when we make a climate plan, it has to live up to three things: 1) it has to deliver, so we have a 70-percent reduction in climate gases by 2030; 2) it has to be fully funded; 3) it has to be funded in a socially fair way. So with the project we have made on transport, we deliver on a CO2 tonne, we find the full funding, and we screw on the different stationary screws in such a way that if you e.g.. is a family who lives in a rural area in Denmark and needs two cars, so you won't get a higher cost from Enhedslistens proposal if you switch to an electric car. And it is absolutely vital for us that the three things are linked, otherwise we will send the bill to those who have the least, but we will actually make the green transition impossible, because the resistance of the population will simply be too great if it is to be the case that those who have the least and earn the least in our country are the ones who have to pay for the green conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908154601	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908154602	Thank you, and thank you for a very good speech. Now Ole Birk Olesen thought that there would never be a very good speech from Enhedslisten, and that is as it should be, for such a speech will probably not sound super good in very liberal ears. But although I am not a socialist, I think it was an excellent speech. In particular, the part about the green and the disappointment that the budget bill does not deliver on the green, and the hope of getting greater funding for both the climate and the environment, and hopefully also nature, is something that we also take into account from the alternative. My questions today are very much about economics. It has just turned out that we can spend and borrow a lot of billions to get society safely through the corona crisis. Hopefully, the corona crisis is now a small crisis in relation to the climate crisis. After all, the climate crisis is a huge crisis that will last for many years and far past our time and into the time of our children and grandchildren, so it is clear that this is a crisis that we take deeply seriously in the alternative. Okay, I see I have a very short time left. Does the rapporteur think that perhaps we will get to where we can borrow money to resolve the climate crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908154723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908154724	I think that is a good idea to discuss. Sir. Torsten Gejl also mentioned an amount of 100 billion in the debate earlier. kr. I just want to say that it's not an amount you need to be scared of. If you heard Brian Mikkelsen in August, you could hear that he thought we should sell Ørsted, and then you could get the approx. 200 billion kr. that came out of it, in a green foundation. So it's an amount that's actually twice as big. It's such a bad idea to sell Ørsted. It is a golden bird and it is important for the green conversion that we retain majority ownership for it. But an amount of 100 billion. kr. It is not, of course, an amount that should be frightened of. At the same time, it is also obvious that, in a situation where there are negative interest rates, we can borrow very cheaply, and we must, of course, face the cost of this if we do not deal with the climate crisis in time. Then we know that the costs will be very high, and that is why, of course, it makes complete sense right now that we are investing in the green transition both now and here to get out of the crisis, but also, of course, because the climate crisis will have some very major negative economic effects. That is why, of course, it makes sense to invest in countering it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908154832	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Torsten Gejl the word?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908154836	Yeah. I have asked the Social Democrats, the Radicals and the SF about the same thing, and nobody promises anything, right? But there has been no talk that it would be completely irresponsible and that it would be completely insane and ridiculous. In fact, I think it seems as if those parties are in any case in a position to do so. The Radicals said that if we are to borrow such a large amount of money, it must certainly be to resolve the climate crisis. SF said that if nothing else can be done, neither a tax reform nor any other thing, it must be so. Do we really come to a consensus that it would actually be an idea to invest a great many billions of borrowed money in the sustainable conversion process, i.e. as a short-term investment?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908154911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908154912	Yeah, and that's what you look at in other countries too. We're talking about green bonds. We are also talking about whether these can be ordinary government bonds, on which we may be able to get an interest rate that is better for us and better for the state. So that is not a foreign way of thinking, and that is something that is being done in other countries, and we should of course also think about that. In the 2020 Finance Act, with the help of the Alternative, it also came into the Financial Law Agreement that we should examine the possibilities of green bonds. So this is something that the parties that were behind the Finance Act last year have already had to look at as an opportunity, and I certainly think that we should go down that path.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908154947	Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908154949	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur for making it clear that the differences in the Enhedslisten and the Left are also very much about how much money you want to take from the citizens' pockets. And it is quite true that we do not always think it is positive to take the money from the Danes, we actually think it is a disadvantage when you do it. Then Enhedslisten's rapporteur talks about the need to raise more taxes now in order to create greater financial room for manoeuvre. Then I'll just come right here with one of them that Enhedslisten helped raise last year. Last year, the gambling fee was raised from 20 to 28 per cent. It was 20%, because when we had government power, we took all the parties in and made a broad agreement. Now you have chosen pure red block to raise it to 28%. This brings a permanent additional revenue of 410 million. kr., but after people change their behavior and things like that, it's 140 million. kr., you get in. That is to say, it is a loss of more than 50%. of it. Well, over 50 percent. What you expect to get in goes out, the majority because it goes out to the black market. Is this the kind of taxes that Enhedslisten would like to have increased at this time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908155053	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908155054	No, the kind of taxes that I and Enhedslisten would like to implement are some of those I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech. But it is true that we have voted in favour of what Mrs Schack Elholm mentions. This is because, among other things, we had to find some money to be used to restore welfare after blue governments headed by the Left have starved and deteriorated welfare for many years. At the same time, it is also the case that a higher gaming fee also has an impact on how many people play at all, and thus it is also a way of combating gambling. So there are several things you actually get by voting in favour of the proposal to which the author refers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908155143	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908155144	I must disappoint the rapporteur by the fact that the rapporteur has not yet voted for it, because it has only been consulted so that it will be dealt with shortly (Rune Lund Well, that is what we are talking about. Sorry). In addition, half of it goes to the black market, which is in other countries, and therefore you cannot help gambling. So that argument doesn't work. However, one of the other charges that the rapporteur is certainly talking about is the soda-ash levy. In reply to the rapporteur's question, it can be seen that it is expected that by raising the soda-ash levy at a rate of 1.3, it will generate an immediate revenue of 960 million. kr., after reflow 460 million. kr. kr. a year which goes out, among other things. to cross-border trade. If we look at how border trade has developed, there has been a fall since we lowered it, from 168 million. I to about 110 million. I. So is it because you want to increase the border trade that you want to increase the soda-ash tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908155232	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908155234	First of all, I would like to regret the fact that I misunderstood the first question in relation to the gaming fee. Compared to the soda tax, that's something we're looking at. When we look at the difference between the price of a product in Denmark and Germany, what has made the greatest difference is the difference in German wages and Danish wages, and then there has also been a difference in VAT. The tax part of the price of the product itself is a very small part of the price of a soda. What is really the most crucial thing for us when we look at raising taxes we would like to discuss that because we generally want to have less of what harms the climate or which harms health is what the social balance in it is. For taxes are so arranged that they turn the heavy end down. We are in a position to create charges that are socially disadvantaged and that must also be compensated by other simultaneous measures. That will be our approach in those discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908155337	Then it's mr. Niels Flemming Hansen from Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908155340	Thank you very much, sir. Rune Lund, and I would say to Ole Birk Olesen, that when my colleague Mona Juul started by praising the speech, it is because we come out from a part of the world where you have a CVR number, and there we have gone on a course and learned something about praise, rice, praise; so what you were a little presumptuous about is probably due to that. However, I sat a little grudging and listened to Mrs Mona Juul's reply on stocks, on quoted and unlisted shares, and did not quite understand the rapporteur's answer. I think the rapporteur may have misunderstood this. Does the rapporteur understand the difference between quoted and unlisted shares?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908155417	Yes, I do. One kind is on the Stock Exchange, and the other one isn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908155423	Then I'll ask my question. It is, of course, the case that there has been an announcement from the Minister of Taxation that the old-age pension will no longer be allowed to invest in unlisted shares and that they will have to be forcibly sold this summer. That is why I ask the rapporteur: is a time when Danish industry is having a hard time, the right time to do this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908155447	I simply have to admit that I have not had enough of that in the detail to be able to give a qualified answer to that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908155456	With these words Mr. Rune Lund for further charges in this round. We must move on in the rapporteur's line to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr President. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908155513	Thank you, sir. President. I'm just gonna roll up my sleeves and this one down once. It's conservative, bourgeois voices who work. Now, sir. Morten Messerschmidt here unfortunately no longer was he not so impressed by Gurli Gris or Rasmus's clump, but I must start by disappointed and say that my speech may not reach the same heights, even in relation to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen's speech, which came all the way up to Harry Potter level. I have to say that I am at a slightly more infantile stage, where I always live in such an animal world, and the wilder and more exotic the animals, the better it is. And so it is with my political speeches. It also means that many, not least my constituents, can better keep up with what I am saying. In this sense, I am glad that the chairman of the Social Democratic Party and I have a lot in common. After all, it is no more than a year ago that the Prime Minister stood here on the platform and was, to say the least, world-famous... 70 million people in China saw her little talk about the elephant Ramoline and its good friend, the camel Ali. In fact, I was at Lolland this weekend, where I met Rambiline, who is very, very well, and I had to say thank you from Rambiline for joining last year's Finance Act. I do not know whether there has ever been an elephant on a Finance Act before; perhaps the Minister of Finance knows that. But it's said that elephants have such a good memory that they never forget anything. At any rate, the Rabil had never heard of an elephant on a financial bill, so I think we can say that this is the first time. However, apart from the Rambilee, there were unfortunately no supermany bright spots on the Finance Act last year and unfortunately not on it this year either. As I see it, we see a worrying shift towards a socialism that we have not seen for many years: for 13 billion. kr. new taxes and taxes, either adopted or on the way, that make it more expensive to be a Dane, discrimination and jantelovs tax on healthy Danish family companies, only because you want to pass the helm on to your daughter or son, suspicious of Danish business that keeps the wheels of Danish economy running, and now also maximum lending of the Danes to build up an even bigger and heavier public sector. And these are measures which, by and large, have the support of a left-wing party which, unfortunately, in my view is becoming more and more left-wing. And now I am not thinking of the corona measures that have helped Danish economy and many companies, and which the Danish Parliament generally agrees on; I am thinking of the government's overall direction for Denmark. Like I said, I live in the animal world. So I've been thinking about what to talk about in this year's finance speech, and with that direction towards socialism it occurred to me to talk about Comrade Napoleon. I hope you all remember him. After all, it is the story of animals that take over the power of the local farm to try to establish a new, fair society with a number of laws based on the fact that there are all animals equal. But it won't be long before the pigs are the ones who have started the revolution on the farm are allowed to fall into power, socialism, pamphlet and positive discrimination against no one but themselves. The law system is therefore boiled down to one sentence: All animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others. These are some of the first signs we have seen here in recent years. Family businesses have to take their necks down, they have to be specially taxed, just because they are family businesses. The taxation of generation does not affect public undertakings, it does not affect listed companies, it does not affect funds, it is targeted solely by private family companies because they are apparently slightly more unequal than all others. Then we had the whole miser of the Social Democratic press advisors. They are, of course, part of the official work, and there you have to be treated equally, but funny enough, if you have the party book in order, you are a little more equal than everyone else. We could also talk about the Prime Minister's election promise that all ministries should cut back on advisers, and we who took part in the technical review of the financial bill last week saw that there are many ministers doing so. I think I remember that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is saving about 20 million. kr. to advisers. And that's fine, but there's just one ministry where you don't save, and that's the Prime Minister's Office, because apparently you're a little more equal than everyone else. I find that worrying. What is even more worrying is, in fact, just the developments of recent days on the left. These are some of the mandates that supported the Prime Minister's Finance Act last year. Last year it was from the party alternative. Uffe Elbæk, Sikandar Siddique and their new party, which they call the Free Greens, stood yesterday and declared that they are first and foremost a left-wing party. that they thus support the Red Government and that they will make a frontal attack on Danish companies. Just try to hear how it sounds: a frontal attack on Danish companies. They call the Danish economy a sick cancer economy, and here we are talking about the Danish economy, which for decades has created one of the world's healthiest and most climate-friendly welfare societies, to which I believe all of us who sit in this Chamber today have contributed. But in the new left-wing party, Free Greens, it is considered that Denmark is a disease that, with hatred, fear and ditch digging, must be attacked, destroyed and demolished. Earlier this year we could see Enhedslisten and the party Alternativet thought that one should excel Danish history, Danish statues and Danish historical monuments. Now I ask the Minister for Finance: are these really parties on which the Social Democratic Party wants to build this year's Finance Act and feel Denmark's future? It is parties that preach hatred and contempt for the Denmark that we all love. What is almost as worrying is what we heard from the Radical Left before, namely that it is genuinely acceptable for fire tax generational change of Danish private companies, while at the same time claiming that it is free, green and strong. Then you stand back and wonder if there is anyone on the left who protects Danish business. We conservatives see a completely different way forward. We believe that, in order for Denmark to come into the best possible future, we can strengthen Danish economy by making it attractive to operate in Denmark, attractive to be an entrepreneur and attractive to go to work. Actually, it shouldn't be that hard. We want to reduce taxes, we want to eliminate the jante-loved generational tax and inheritance tax in general, we want to lower housing taxes, and we want to strengthen the climate in cooperation with business and not by suspecting them and attacking them or by saying that we are going to make a frontal attack on them. We believe that a healthy, strong and competitive Danish economy is most cost-effective and climate-friendly. And a strong and climate-friendly Denmark is also what allows the rest of the world to be inspired to follow us. Wouldn't it be great if we could inspire companies to come here to Denmark because we have shown the way forward in relation to business and climate being able to go hand in hand? But if we drown the Danes in taxes, if we drown the companies in taxes, unfortunately I do not think there are very many countries out there that will be inspired by us. On the contrary, we risk forcing Danish companies abroad because they cannot live up to the business climate at home. I could understand that, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, that the Left would also like to join with Conservatives in a new direction in relation to what the Social Democratic Party is proposing here. So, dear Minister, I hope you will listen to us bourgeois parties. We'd like to work with you. If you make a bill again with Enhedslisten and the red parties, you risk another echo from a socialist past, from Anker Jørgensen: You empty the box, you raise the taxes, you raise the sovereign debt. And I do not think that is something that is healthy for Denmark. In fact, a year ago, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, in a tweet I found not so long ago, even called for less Anker Jørgensen. So there is still a little hope for the Radical Left. Now they say that elephants never forget. But I also believe that the Danes will not forget if the Social Democratic Party chooses to create an Anker Jørgensen and drives Denmark's economy if not in the abyss, but then all the way to the abyss. So let's not empty the box. Let us engage in constructive cooperation to use the future to strengthen Danish economy and strengthen Danish business, so that we have a healthy foundation to build on and not just on even larger sovereign debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908160426	I would like to thank the rapporteur for this. We shall begin with the brief remarks. It's Camilla Fabricius first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908160435	First of all, I am a little surprised by the lack of knowledge of the Conservative rapporteur, because I really consider the rapporteur to be both educated and well-read, but I still find that the rapporteur is not aware of what is socialism and what is social democracy and how it is based on believing in controlled market forces, and that, moreover, when you look over a Denmark of entrepreneurs, sole proprietors and small enterprises, medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises, it is a wide range of different people who create businesses and are part of being an entrepreneur, the same applies to the Folketing. I'm actually worried about cutting everyone over a comb. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the Conservatives will ignore the fact that gross domestic product has gone back, that unemployment of 43 000 people has a significant impact on Denmark and that we need to help the many people outside the labour market. What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908160546	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908160549	I think I will excuse myself at first by stressing that I am at an infantile stage where I still live away in the animal world. So if I do not know the difference between socialism and social democracy, I hope I have excused myself in advance. However, I think that the direction we are looking at from the Social Democrat Party in seeking to tax the Danes on fire, even though it was actually said not very long ago that it would not do so, by charging Danish companies with taxes and by introducing measures that pull people out of the labour market instead of creating jobs, is, in my view, very similar to socialism. For me, the most important thing is that we create a strong economy and when it is the case that, for example, social democracy. comes with the so-called Arne reform, which costs 3 billion. kr., which costs 9,000 jobs because of pulling people out of the labour market and which one among others is. will finance by raising the tax on shares, so that it is less attractive for Danes to invest their money and harder for companies to get capital, it is just unhealthy for the Danish economy. So what we Conservatives want to do, and it is also just such an overall proposal for social democracy, is to come up with measures that create jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908160705	Thank you. Camilla Fabricius, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908160710	I would like to welcome the rapporteur to the Social Democratic Group Room, and then we can have a tour of the history of social democracy. However, I would just like to ask: when Danish Occupations has created a new industry organisation that supports that we need a strong welfare sector and that we have to invest in welfare and social functions, has the rapporteur completely ignored how massively that welfare and prosperity mean? We simply have to invest in jobs. Has the rapporteur quite passed it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908160741	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908160744	No, that's exactly what we want. What we are asking for in the draft budget is precisely: where are the measures that create jobs? The only thing I can see is a tax on coffee that is relaxed, but there are no measures that create jobs. So the Arne proposal costs 9 000 jobs. There we say Conservatives: Well, then come up with some moves. If we could just set a framework for them, let's say 9.2 billion. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been drawn up by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908160817	Then it's Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908160820	Thank you. The Conservative People's Party has, of course, been some of the first to support with us an ambitious green objective: 70% CO2 That is why, like other parties, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the Conservative People's Party, when presenting a draft budget which I assume they do, will have put money on the budget law to reduce CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20200908160850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908160852	Thank you to the Radical Left for those words. After all, we are proud to be the only bourgeois party in Denmark's first Climate Act I think it was back in 2014. So we are very pleased with the cooperation on climate, but we believe that climate and business go hand in hand. Well, if the solution to get to the 70%. Is it what some of the red parties, the Enhedslisten, etc., want, namely just to shut down agriculture, to shut down businesses, then it is easy enough; if we all just stop doing business, driving and going to work, then it is not so difficult. However, we would like to go in the direction in which we cooperate with the many Danish companies that would like to cooperate. Well, SAS, Novo Nordisk, A.P. Møller - Mærsk is all out with really, really good initiatives on how we can work together. So, yes, we would like to look at how we can work even closer with business. In relation to specific figures, that is something I think we should look at when we get a little further in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908160950	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908160952	But I took it as a confirmation that this will be given priority and that money will also be given priority, because I think we agree that this will be required if we are to help companies to reduce CO2 emissions. We also agreed on a green tax reform just before the summer; Conservatives were also involved in this. Does the rapporteur think that it is important, speaking of what the rapporteur has just said, that it is not just possible to tax fire taxes that we get to work on this? When are we going to start work on green tax reform if it was up to the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908161027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908161029	In other words, we need to start these climate negotiations as quickly as possible, but I must also say - and I have already mentioned this before - that when it comes to radicals, who claim to want something of the same as us Conservatives in terms of working with business, go in and brand tax private companies, only because they are family businesses, then you make it very, very difficult for the very many companies to have enough profits and economic energy to be able to come up with green measures as well. So I just think that the Radical Left is lagging a very long way behind.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908161102	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908161105	Thank you. Now I wanted to say something about those sculptures that the Conservative rapporteur had gotten quite a bit of nonsense about, but we can take that another day in the Committee on Culture. People who so close their eyes to history and do not want to discuss it, I think I need a little more time to argue with to move forward. I would like to tell a story about 100 billionaires in the world who, this summer, in July, in public, asked: can we be allowed to pay some taxes so that there can be money for this great crisis we are in? We want to pay property taxes and we appeal to governments around the world to levy some taxes from us. I think it is a little old-fashioned now that I do not want to use the word 'infantile', the rapporteur himself cannot use that to look at the fact that we should all play a part in carrying out the task that exists when a country is in crisis. Be it corona, be it climate. It costs to emerge from a crisis that needs to be invested, and everyone must contribute. There is no point in thinking that we can keep our hands on business and then say that they should not contribute, because they must do so very much, because they have the widest shoulders.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908161215	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908161218	I am not quite sure what exactly the question was, but if it is in relation to inheritance tax, I would say that is fine. We see a lot of companies and individuals going out and taking huge social responsibility and contributing in various ways, but if the question was whether we should not just tax people who have earned money, I would say that I do not understand that. If you have earned some money, you have every right to spend it on whatever you want, but to say that you must not pass it on to your children, who, by the way, want to run a business, makes no sense. It is, of course, indirectly called for the money to be spent on all sorts of crazy things instead of being able to drive the company further and thus create more jobs and a stronger economy in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908161257	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908161300	This is about billionaires, and they said that our fortunes are rising so extremely in these years of the crisis, and we are making so much money that we want to offer to help pay for this crisis. Take some wealth tax on our fortunes, said these 100 wealthiest people, they were all billionaires in dollars this summer, and it was because they cried out to the conservatives and shouted to the liberals: can you understand that this is more than holding hands? I would like to say personally that no one is being taxed on fire in Denmark. We have some very, very mild tax forms in Denmark, and we have to listen to such visionary people who understand how to run business and make money, and they also understand that they have a social responsibility. Why the hell aren't you listening to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908161343	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908161346	We live in a small country that is part of an open market economy. When I look at companies like Mærsk, like LEGO, like Danfoss, and what they have created from jobs and value for Denmark, I will be proud. They are told not to start a business here in Denmark, because if it is the case that their son or daughter is one day to take over the generation baton, the state comes and takes a big bite, and then they settle in Sweden or Norway, where they have actually abolished exactly these taxes, and in this way they drive companies out of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908161422	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908161427	Thank you. I was so confused by all the nonsense that came from Enhedslisten there. I would like to express my sincere thanks for a good speech, and I can say that with an honest mind. I would like to talk a little about cars, because we are facing a reformation of car taxation, and I very much fear that some Danes are being set up out there, who are going to have a bill, i.e. more expensive cars, and who do not have the economic opportunity to switch to electric cars, just because there is a political desire for it. I would like to know if Conservatives will stand with New Citizens and stand guard that there should not be an increased bill for the families of children out there who cannot switch to an electric car just because politicians think it is a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908161510	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908161514	I can say that our ambitions in the car sector are, in effect, the same as they were a few days ago. We want to make it cheaper, and we want to make it greener. So we haven't figured all this out yet, but it's still our ambition that the registration fee should come down, just as it is our ambition, that we also want more electric cars. But to get to precise figures may be just early enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908161538	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908161541	I fully acknowledge that. Now I get a little worried when Conservatives say they have ambitions, because we saw that under the VK government too. There, too, there were ambitions to lower the tax. You didn't do that back during the VK period. So I would like to know if you could be a little more specific. I am not talking about any figures, but about the fact that at least you will not help raise the price so that people can have a car out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908161559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908161602	With all due respect for New Citizens: New Citizens have agreed at least to talk to the government about the so-called Arne outshoot, and it is therefore a proposal in which one will agree to raise the share tax. So I'm very excited if it's something that New Citizens are actually going to go through. But it is certainly not our ambition to raise taxes on cars. It is our ambition that they should be put down.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908161623	The last inscribed I've got is sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. There's still time. If you want the floor, you have to press it. Here you go, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908161631	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for a picturesque speech with various animal pictures. Since I had the opportunity to stand in the same place as the rapporteur now stands, I was aware that the international organisations are recommending to their Member States that, in order to get out of the crisis, public consumption should be speeded up. We are talking about the OECD and the UN and the International Monetary Fund, which say very clearly that public investment, better safety net is the way to get out of the crisis. They speak on the basis of the experience gained from the financial crisis, where it could be seen that a number of European countries used the way of saving. It took a long time. It was expensive. Unemployment was getting worse. And then there was the United States, on the other hand, which chose a different strategy with a higher consumption, which came out of the crisis more quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908161720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908161723	We are not, in fact, opposed to higher public spending if it is something that creates added value, and that is a little what I mentioned earlier, that is, if it is the case that the Social Democrats could say that they have a framework for this so-called war fund which is then just borrowed money and that the measures that lie within it are something that must create jobs, something that should make the public sector happier and more efficient. But right now, we have no idea. It's really like Mary Poppin's bag: Anything can come out of it, maybe even an umbrella. It is quite crazy, and one feels a little that when the Social Democrats talk to the Red Support Parties, they talk to them, and when you talk to us bourgeois, it is business action; but we have not gotten as much as a direction for what the money should be spent on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908161804	Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908161806	Either my communication skills were poor, or perhaps the Conservative rapporteur has not fully listened, because I really think that I spent some time in my speech making clear how we are going to use the war fund to kick off the Danish economy, for the green transition and the like, but we can take that on other occasions. However, is it to be understood that the Conservatives are in favour of going to the limit of our budgetary law, setting all boilers on fire to get people back to work if we can agree on what initiatives it would be sensible to launch?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908161839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908161841	If that is the way to spend money that has a positive return, then we are generally in agreement with higher consumption, but that is what we cannot get concrete, and it is a little too bad that we could not put it forward before this debate, because then we would be able to look at the individual measures. But when you see the government's Arne initiative, which will pull 9 000 people out of employment and raise the share tax, I am worried because if that is the direction the Social Democrats are going to take, then spending more money is not a good investment to put it bluntly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908161909	Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908161916	I really think it is a pity that we cannot have a proper, substantial debate on this, Mr President. Christian Rabjerg Madsen is talking about here, which is basically about how to deal with it when you face an economic crisis. In fact, Denmark has basically before corona came and would also have had it if corona were not there a very healthy economy. The labour force is growing, we have extremely good competitiveness, record figures on the balance of payments, which will be adjusted up compared to last year. It is basically a very healthy economy. It is Corona that is making us have a problem right now... not all sorts of imbalances in the economy. What, then, should be done when the crisis strikes? Then you have to invest, you have to keep your hands on employment, and that is what the draft budget is doing. That's what you go down for a long time while you stand up here on the platform and think it's horrible. But that is what means that there are thousands of people next year who will not lose their jobs. The prescription from Mr. Marcus Knuth is so that it would be cooler if we now saved on public spending. If you are in a crisis and you are cutting public spending, it is the recipe for whether more people are going to work or less, i.e. if you do what Mr. Marcus Knuth just suggested?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908162020	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908162024	First of all, I am delighted with the initiatives we have taken together here in the Danish Parliament. I also made that very clear in my speech. That was not a criticism of it, because that is where we go in and spend money to help the business community. But when you look at the Social Democrats' draft Finance Act, I find it difficult to see what it is for some concrete measures • in addition to a saving on the coffee tax • which is a helping hand to the business community. And when you can't see it, you talk a little bit in the mist. These are headlines that the Finance Minister brings up and, as the Financial Rapporteur says, there is no concrete action. And that's exactly what I miss. We do not mind spending more money if it is the case that they are spent wisely. But right now we cannot see it, and that is why we cannot decide whether it is money that is being spent wisely or whether it is money that is being spent badly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908162110	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908162113	I actually think that's weird. In other words, the proposal says very clearly that we will use all the economic muscles we have within the budgetary law we have adopted in Denmark to stimulate the economy, in other words to keep employment going and to ensure that people do not lose their jobs. At the same time, there are priorities of nature, police, tax authorities, the elderly, socially vulnerable, children. Well, these are some priorities, as Mr. Marcus Knuth is opposed to? The specific question now that time is running out is: does one agree that it is wise in the present situation to go right to the framework of the budget law and to stimulate the economy fully?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908162149	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908162152	Let me give you two clear examples where I very much disagree: you want to save on the broadband pool, which helps create a balance in Denmark. So they say to people who live in rural areas: We will no longer prioritise you so that you can communicate as well with the outside world, regardless of whether your tractor or your IT business. It's just not healthy. There are also red parties that want to mess with the free schools. It is also not healthy for the balance in Denmark. So these are some measures that I very much disagree with. I am sorry to repeat this: we would like to spend more money as long as they are spent wisely, but we do not know what the Social Democrats want.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908162223	Then we thank the Conservative rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That's why we can move on to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908162239	Yes, we are here again with a first reading of a financial bill, and it is more like such a bad version of the Luxury trap. You raise the tax, you increase public spending, and you send the bill for your over-consumption right to the nursery and future generations, who then have to pay the bill. It is quite simply a political kinder's egg of bad action. This tale that you have to raise the tax and borrow money to get out of the economic crisis is nonsense. One can actually prioritise, yes, one can even improve the basic core welfare without. And if you do not think you are able to move the funds around within this existing framework, where we have one of the world's largest public sectors, then my clear position is that you should not be held responsible. Let me make it quite clear: before this Parliament comes to an end with all the project-making and unnecessary feel-good measures that the public sector is patched up with, you have no right to force the Danes to deliver more of their money. Before this Parliament takes a fight to send Danish tax dollars down to an Italian government that has a lower tax burden, more black work and a lower retirement age, you have no right to take any more of the Danes' money. And before this Parliament takes a stand against the deeply failed non-western immigration, which costs 33 billion. kr. Every year every eternal single year, you have no right to force the Danes to deliver more of their money. Who do you think you are? It's the reality behind all these fine words: you force the Danes to deliver more because you're not willing to limit yourself, and you even do it in an extremely inappropriate way. Let me try to give a concrete example: the government will raise the tax on risk capital. It is something that is hopeless in itself. Even my students in social studies in the eighth grade know that when you tax something harder, you get less of it. But at the same time as forcing risk capital away from private hands into the state, a financial bill is put forward to allocate funds to growth loans... match finance... with the words: "When private investors become less risky at a time of crisis like the present, the state must shoulder some of that responsibility and provide risk capital. It's crazy. You remove risk capital from the citizens so that the state can manage them and give them back to who you want. This government has planned to raise the tax by close to 13 billion. kr. You punish business while touring the country with the history of keeping your hand under business. I fear that things are going as usual in this House: the Left and Conservative and perhaps also the Danish People's Party criticises the financial bill, but ends up voting for it. In this way, you validate this completely wrong policy for Denmark. If the draft budget is put to the vote as it stands now, then New Citizens will vote against it. And I fear, unfortunately, that it will be even worse and harmful for Denmark when it has been in the claws of the left. Let me address this with the so-called room for manoeuvre. The council room is money that belongs to the citizens. The only decent thing, of course, is to immediately reduce the tax so that citizens are not forced to pay overpriced to run the state. But we have invented this concept of the room for manoeuvre, because in this way ownership of the money has been secured, even though it should in no way fall to the politicians, as it is an overpayment. That is why it is quite grotesque to listen to parties that actually talk about spending money on something other than tax reductions. Yes, today we have even heard that there are parties that are now talking about increasing the room for manoeuvre. It is simply a sick attitude to have to people's money that you per. definition believes they have the right to have them at their disposal. We do not have that, and we should call it what it is: tax increases. And tax increases in a country with the world's second highest tax burden are completely crazy. It harms Denmark, it harms the Danes, and it is a completely wrong way to go, which we cannot support in New Citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908162807	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's from Mrs Camilla Fabricius. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908162815	First of all, I would like to thank New Citizens for, together with a wide range of parliamentary parties, helping to help Denmark get back on its feet, that we have held our hands under Denmark • You have helped to show solidarity and promise in flock. It is a very good move that we have done so together and that New Citizens have been involved in it. When the rapporteur gives some of a fire talk about what is best for the community, I just get a little confused. I should just like to be absolutely sure whether New Citizens tend to pursue an expansive fiscal policy in which we take holiday money and participate in investing, or whether the rapporteur thinks that we should raise taxes and go that way. And perhaps the rapporteur, like the curly tail, can tell us what these are quite specific reforms, as the rapporteur points out, are the features of the new citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908162919	The rapporteur then has one more minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908162922	Thanks, I'd love to. We think it would be sensible for all the holiday money to come back. So far three weeks have come back; it was actually New Citizens' proposal to release the money, and I am glad that it now has Parliament's support. When we think of reforms, we in New Citizens believe that we must reduce taxes and taxes and make the country richer. And that's the exact opposite of what this financial bill is doing. We believe that citizens must take far more decisions and have far more responsibility than they do and have at present. It's totally against what this financial bill is doing. So we are not hiding that we want a different path than what the Social Democrats and the Left want.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908163003	Mrs. Camilla Fabricius, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908163007	Then I'd like to ask you something else. If you look all over the global world, we know that there is a massive challenge with the climate, and some of what this financial bill suggests is an investment in it. On the whole, the government, together with the support parties, has actively chosen to say that we must invest in jobs, in green jobs. How does New Citizens feel about making real green investments in the work of ordinary people, ordinary people who mount a windmill or perform other ordinary jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908163044	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908163047	Well, we'd like to get on the green agenda. We believe, for example, that nuclear power should play a much greater and more central role in this. If you want to do something good, you can reduce taxes, for example. on electric cars; then they are made cheaper. We can also reduce the tax on electricity. We produce some of the cheapest electricity, but when it comes to consumers, it has become expensive. Why? Because it's been in here and had massive charges put on top of it. Danish agriculture is some of those that produce most climate-friendly throughout the world. So if we want to do something good for the climate around the world, we need to reduce the taxes on agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908163119	Then it's Anders Kronborg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908163127	Well, thank you so much. I understand that the rapporteur's speech was mostly about what we did not want in relation to the Finance Act, rather than what we wanted When I look at the challenge we have now, there is at least a picture that is essential to us, and that is that we have combated the unemployment that exists. So I would like to respond to the questioner by asking: what is the plan of the New Citizens' Party in the short run to ensure that we combat unemployment?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908163150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908163154	We can do more concrete things: we can release all the holiday money, we can remove the registration tax on cars, we can remove the top tax, we can lower corporate tax, we can lower the tax on capital • measures that will immediately boost growth in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908163206	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908163210	So new citizens think that we should lower the tax on those who have the most in advance. I also heard that the rapporteur confirmed to Camilla Fabricius that some of the investments that this government has set in motion for green jobs, etc. I do not quite understand how the rapporteur will finance this overall when he wants to make massive tax cuts, while at the same time making public investment. I just want to hear: is this the right picture that the rapporteur gives me here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908163232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908163236	I understand that, according to the socialist thinking, we cannot understand that we can actually re-prioritize in the public sector. We think it is wrong to spend 4 billion. kr. on the Danish Radio. But we think it is wrong to spend 10 million. kr. on State-funded business support. We think it is wrong to spend 15 billion. kr. of development aid. We think it is wrong to spend 5 billion. kr. At the job centers. There are a large number of areas where we can re-prioritize without the need to raise taxes and increase public spending overall. We believe that public consumption can actually be lower and that, at the same time, the funds for basic core welfare can be prioritised and taxes reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908163305	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908163314	I just heard it was wrong to spend 15 billion dollars. kr. We therefore spend almost 17 billion on development aid. kr., then the last 2 billion. kr. Must be someone we're allowed to use, or what? I would just like to say that if a party believes that we should have fewer refugees and less immigration into Denmark, then it is necessary to do away with ourselves, whether we need more military and police at borders and in the Mediterranean, or whether we can provide development aid to ensure that they have a decent life where they are, for example. in the refugee camps or in the very poorest countries that we have reaped for 500 years. We have to choose one of the models, otherwise they will come here. I would like to hear: what is your bid for it when you do not want to help ensure that they can thrive and live a good life, and their children can get some education where they are and that those countries can develop? So what are you going to do to prevent them from looking elsewhere, like the rest of us, when we do not thrive where we are?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908163411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908163415	I cannot imagine people looking elsewhere, but I can blame those politicians who allow them to come here. Because I'm not willing to let Denmark destroy to help somebody else. I would like to help, but we must help where it is necessary and where it can be done. One of the measures that could be taken, for example, was that customs walls could be removed so that they could actually be traded with these countries so that they would not be subject to customs duties when they want to trade with the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908163440	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908163444	In practice, this will not change much because we have just created an international market so that the places where money can be made are quite different from those where people are poor. So we have to decide how we help them to get an education so that they can lead their own country so that they can create production, infrastructure, health and have some schools where their children can go. We have been through this development over the last 100 years in our way. They have just helped pay for it over the 100 years and are waiting to be allowed to develop in their own countries. Not to mention the people in the refugee camps who are helping to remove customs walls. They are:
ParlaMint-DK_20200908163527	Thank you. Now we get an answer. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908163530	I know that in the socialist world it is incredibly difficult to understand, but it is actually the free market forces and trade between independent nations that have moved very many millions of people around the world out of poverty, and it would also happen if it were not destroyed by socialists like people from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908163546	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we can go further in the rapporteur's report. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908163602	After all, the basic prosperity of a country is built on the structures of that country. It is not that kind of money that happens to fall depending on where you live; it is built up by the social structures of a country. Therefore, prosperity in Denmark is three times as high per year. As a result, the prosperity of Greece per head of population as well as the prosperity of Greece per head of population as well as the prosperity of Greece. citizens three times as high as the prosperity of Belarus. That is because there is a difference between the structures that exist in the countries. That is why it is what you care about when you make economic policy in a country and what you should be concerned about what structures you work with here and whether you improve the structures so that it can become a more prosperous country, so that citizens have more money between their hands that they can use as they like, and also so that the public gets more money into tax revenue with an unchanged tax rate that you can spend on what is considered to be good in public. This Finance Act is on top of many financial laws that have been adopted over the years in the Folketing. In recent years, each Finance Act has contributed to Denmark's becoming a more prosperous country through its structures. Employment has been increased, investment has been increased in business with the policies and structures that have been created. Now we have a Social Democratic government supported by a red majority in the Folketing, and we are now looking into the second successive Finance Act, which makes structures worse to create wealth in Denmark and where Denmark becomes a poorer country as a result of lower employment. In other words, we have taken over a Denmark that is in good condition, thanks to the reforms that other governments and other majorities have carried out, and then every year, with their financial laws, we take steps towards making Denmark poorer. This is not a big step, and we will not end up as Belarus tomorrow. It is absolutely right, but you break with the tradition that every finance law should make Denmark a richer place to be. Instead, they say: Oh, yes, but we borrow 9.2 billion. kr., and we pump them into society, and then we increase employment in Denmark by over 40,000 people. That's cheating. It's not structure. It is borrowed money, and at some point it has to be paid back, and when it is paid back, they will not be out in society, and then employment will be correspondingly lower, just as it was higher in the years when the borrowed money was spent. So in the long term, Denmark's prosperity is not created by borrowing billions and billions and pumping them out; it is artificial politics, it is artificial economic policy, and that is the only thing this government has to offer. It is the kind of artificial inflating of the Danish economy that we will be paying the bill for later with lower prosperity and lower employment. That's too bad. Then it is even the case that the Finance Act does not bring with it any more of the proposals that this government is planning to implement, which are moving in an even worse direction, first and foremost, the proposal that we should have a lot of people who are healthy and bodily 9,000 people who are expected to be withdrawn from employment and who then have to go to a public breadwinner, a so-called Arnepension, named after the Social Democratic Photo Model, which is a brewery worker, and who has played a role in the Social Democratic election campaign. It is, of course, a contribution to making Denmark a poorer place on top of the financial bill here, because fewer workers are working. Another proposal that is not included is the Social Democrats' desire to increase car taxes. In other words, we know that, fortunately, there is a broad majority in the Folketing who do not want to introduce a full registration tax on green cars. It would be too burdensome for the green transition. This means, however, that the Treasury is missing some money from the registration tax on green cars. Then it seems to be the position of the Social Democrats that that money should be found by increasing taxes on petrol and diesel cars. On this proposal, we know that it also reduces growth and employment in Denmark, because the taxes on petrol and diesel vehicles are already higher than the negative social footprint that comes from driving around in traffic, working on the roads, polluting, causing accidents, etc. They're way taller than that. It has been established on several occasions by capable economists, the economic wise, that the tax on petrol and diesel cars exceeds the negative economic impact on society. So this means that the only thing they get out of raising them further is that people's incentives to work extra and take new jobs are reduced by the fact that they can get less for the money they earn when they, for example, make money. will buy a car. So, the desire to take on a job in Esbjerg, if you live in Holstebro, diminishes, even if you may get a higher salary, because it is not even possible to buy a car with the higher salary, so you feel better while transporting yourself between Holstebro and Esbjerg. In other words, what matters to people when they have to find out whether they want to work more and take on more responsibility for a higher salary is what they can get for the higher salary, and taxes are passed on, as well as income tax. People do not really care very much whether they pay taxes through income tax or through taxes. They care how many benefits they can get that salary. So it is another proposal that reduces employment and prosperity in Denmark, and the Finance Act does not contain any counter-measures, either in relation to the financial law's own negative effects on employment or the proposal to withdraw people from employment at Arnepension or the government's plan to increase taxes on petrol and diesel cars. Nothing goes in the other direction. This is, of course, a problem, and one can hope that during the course of the budget negotiations there will be opportunities to do something there. But you can't be optimistic about it because the government wants to do its financial law negotiations with the Enhedslisten and the Alternative and the SF, and they don't care very much about how to create wealth in this country. They care about how much money can be spent on welfare and they think very short-sightedly. It is here and now-welfare, and it is not the welfare that can be in the future in a country that is richer. Another thing I have to point out, which is a huge shortcoming in this draft budget and also a huge breach of promise, is that investments in public transport infrastructure are not being initiated. We have just been through an election campaign a year ago, where what we were discussing was the Blue Government's proposal to launch infrastructure investments in Denmark, a number of concrete projects, some of which had already to start in 2021. Social democracy went everywhere in the country to the polls that so did the Social Democratic Party. If you were a voter in East Jutland, you could easily vote for Mr. Nicolai Wammen, who is now Minister of Finance, and yet get his extension of the E45 at the beginning of 2021; if you were elected in South Jutland, then you could easily vote for Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, finance rapporteur for Social Democracy, and get his extension of the motorway crossing at Kolding from 2021. And that's how it was all over the country. The Social Democrats said: we are confident, we are as ambitious as the blue parties in investing in road infrastructure. Now, with this budget bill from the government, we can see that the voters who have put their noses up after getting the road expansions and traffic investment from 2021 are just getting a long nose. Not a single penny has been set aside for this, not a penny has been set aside for traffic investment in 2021. Even if you promised it out loud and sacred in the election campaign, you have not set aside a penny for it. This also fails to invest in the basic infrastructure of this country, which can ensure prosperity and prosperity in the future. We will not be able to transport ourselves better around Denmark to new jobs as a result of this Finance Act, because that is not the priority of the Finance Act. So all the talk that Social Democrats often make about investing in Denmark has resulted in a huge zero in investment in road infrastructure, even if they went to elections on it in 2019. It is a rather unambitious and rather bad proposal for a financial law that the government has made here. One can hope that it will be better during the budget negotiations, but I am not optimistic.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908164607	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Anders Kronborg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908164611	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ole Birk Olesen, for an exciting metaphor. At the beginning of the speech, I got such associations back to the financial crisis, where the then bourgeois government also tried to get out of the crisis by lowering the tax for those who had the most in advance, and it took a very long time to get employment going, but at the end of the speech I thought more I heard Mr. Ole Birk Olesen so speak into an expansive fiscal policy. So is it really a new economic direction that we see from the Liberal Alliance here from the platform, in terms of how to get out of the crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908164649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908164652	We have no objection to expansive fiscal policies being pursued this year when there is a bad economic situation. This has already been done, it can be said, because this year there have been no great obstacles to sharing out hundreds of billions of dollars in order to mitigate the effects of the corona epidemic and the public decommissioning of Denmark. So the question is: are they 9.2 billion? kr., which one now wants to borrow extra, what makes the big difference when one has already been spending hundreds of billions of dollars? It is perhaps more a parade proposal that will make it look like something, and not something that in its essence will mean so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908164736	Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908164740	Thank you to the rapporteur for that explanation. I'm not gonna get any smarter 'cause I guess, sir. Ole Birk Olesen presents what he himself would really like to prioritize. After all, we could hear from New Citizens before they were tax cuts, tax reductions and so on. But now we hear a rapporteur for another liberal party who really speaks for public investment, so where is the emphasis for the Liberal Alliance in relation to this financial law?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908164802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908164806	We would certainly like to start public investment in a new traffic infrastructure as early as 2021. That is what we had made a plan for with the bourgeois majority in the last parliamentary term, and that would have happened if today we still had a bourgeois majority. Then we would now be planning to expand the East Jutland motorway, the motorway intersection at Kolding and a number of other projects already in 2021. Unfortunately, however, there was a new red government and a new red majority who went to the polls that they would, but who apparently decided that they would not anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908164840	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908164842	Thank you. And thank you for an excellent speech by the rapporteur. I did not really intend to ask a question either, but I will do so after listening to what the rapporteur says, because the rapporteur was the Minister for Transport under the previous government. This applies, among other things, to: in relation to infrastructure investments, where we can see that many of the roads there were precisely aimed at linking Denmark better together, so that rural areas also had easier access to the growth areas, i.e. the larger cities. And another thing you can see is that the broadband pool is also not included, so it also becomes harder to live in rural areas when you have poor internet. So how do you actually see it from the Liberal Alliance? Can we not say that this financial law is either the expression of a war against rural areas or that they are at least left behind?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908164933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908164935	I certainly think that rural areas are left behind. There were several of the infrastructure projects that we were planning to launch in 2021, which were precisely in what is called rural areas. For example: there was the state road between Nykøbing Falster and the South Motorway, which should have begun an extension in 2021. And there was also the road between Ålbæk and Skagen, for which I was punked, I do not know how many times in this Chamber, when I was Minister, by Mr. Bjarne Laustsen from the Social Democratic Party, that is to say, that I did not set it off. And then I started it because I had the same priority he had, starting in 2021. But then his government comes to power, and then it doesn't come along anymore; then you drop the road between Ålbæk and Skagen in 2021, despite having had a very active member of parliament who has deceived the Northern Jutlanders that so would the Social Democracy. So I fully agree: the social democracy cheats the voters in every single election, and this time it is in the infrastructure that they have cheated.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908165039	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908165041	Thank you for that and thank you for a very good answer. My second question concerns the fact that several rapporteurs have said today that we must also make Denmark richer and that several rapporteurs across the party have also said that we must get through the crisis strengthened. Can the rapporteur not also confirm that a great deal of these infrastructure projects actually had a good return, that is to say that it was indeed some infrastructure projects that made us richer; which gave companies better conditions; which meant that they should not be so long on the road, but could actually produce something more in companies? So infrastructure is not just asphalt; infrastructure is also making Denmark richer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908165116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908165118	I can fully confirm that. The three projects which I mentioned here in reply to Mr. René Christensen, all have what is called an internal rate of interest of well over 5%, and that means in that kind of language that they should be implemented, because it is said that if there is a return for society, a benefit for society, of 4%. I would like to say a few words about the Commission's proposal for a directive. And these three projects are something that should be implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908165145	Then it's Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908165152	Thank you. It was a proper broad-side that came from LA's rapporteur that the SF had a very short-term horizon in terms of welfare. What I think is short-sighted is to make it the most overwhelming approach one has in politics at all, to reduce registration fees. It was LA's raison d'être for 3 years and if you had to understand the party itself at least the most important thing. The party's raison d'être, i.e. raison d'être, was that registration fees had been reduced three years in a row. I think that is short-sighted. I also think it is short-sighted to mock the rest of us a little for us to think that the green transition is also important for economic reasons. Well, it's not me, but COWI says it's gonna cost us 1,000 billion. kr. in the coming century just in Denmark, just in relation to the storm tide • a quarter of the City of Copenhagen's budget. So, does LA not see the sense of investing massively in green conversion, including in the long run?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908165309	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908165312	Yes, we can, and that is our policy too. Where we separate ourselves from the SF is where we, for example. Says: If we are to have a green transition to passenger car transport, there should not be high registration fees for green cars. On the contrary. There should be no charges, and then people will be encouraged to buy green cars. We did not have the raison d'être or the raison d'être alone to lower the registration fee, but that was one of the things we could get through. We have a broad political programme in which there are many things we would like to do. And then we were just trying to get as much of it through, and that was one of the things we got through. We also got through that, for example. should be cheaper to go to free schools. We also had a reduction in taxes at the bottom of the income scale. Everything was really good. We have even more points, but, of course, we also said loudly that we were pleased that we had reduced the registration tax on cars, because it also helped to ensure that families could afford to transport and, incidentally, to buy a car that was more environmentally friendly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908165416	Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908165419	You also bought 21 cups for yourselves, I remember. My point is that instead of hitting each other on top of your head, you should focus on what really works. One of the things that, according to LA's rapporteur, does not work well enough is to remove the tax on electric cars alone, that is to say, more needs to be done. It costs money. What should finance the green conversion to reach the 70%. or 30%, but 70%.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908165459	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908165502	There you have to have an ambitious, reform-oriented approach to the Danish economy. It is pointless to sit back with crossed arms and say: there is not really anything in the public sector that we must mess with, that is, the typical SF position, where everything has to be, as it has always been in the public sector. It is better to spend more and more money on all the things you already spend a lot of money on. If you have that approach to the public economy and to the Danish economy, you will never be able to afford the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908165529	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908165536	Yes, and on the blue side everything must always be as it has always been in the private sector, so we can discuss that for a long time. I'd like to comment on that structure thing. If it was only a question of structure, then we did not need to have any parties. Denmark's prosperity and the Social Democrats themselves must respond to this has happened in an interaction between changing governments for now a hundred and a half years or so. And it is true that it has created some prosperity, and in the good times it has also created some welfare, but the rapporteur forgets that welfare is a prerequisite for prosperity. Those who have really created values in our society are the skilled, energetic and industrious working class, who have constantly become more skilled at their crafts and become more skilled at adapting when necessary, have become more skilled at inspiring the people who have the capital to say: if we go this way, we can earn more money and benefit society even more. And we're gonna need that now when we're about to solve these climate problems. There we will need the workers, the employees and the workers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908165643	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908165646	Everyone who goes to work in Denmark contributes to Denmark's prosperity, and everyone who invests successfully in production in Denmark contributes to Denmark's prosperity. If we are to make up for what has meant the most that Denmark has become richer, it is the investments made by employers in the production apparatus that have led to the greatest productivity development. It is neither public expenditure on training nor on cash benefits nor on early retirement that has made us richer. It is employers' investment in production equipment that has made us richer. That is what has been done. hours worked can produce more and thus work up a higher hourly wage and thus also a greater production in Denmark at all. It is clear that if we had implemented the Enhedslisten model and nationalised all companies etc., we would have been at the same level as Cuba, North Korea or Zimbabwe. Fortunately, this was not done in Denmark, so it can be welcomed that Enhedslisten and the parties that make up Enhedslisten have never had any real political influence.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908165752	Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908165756	I am sorry to say this, but the rapporteur is living in the last century. In other words, the economy today has realised that if we do not have basic training, if we do not have vocational training, if we do not have academic training, then we cannot match the international competition that exists; then we cannot match the requirements of development, for example. in the area of climate change. We would never have been there if we had not had a very, very well-educated population. It's alpha and omega for us to make it. Then there is a side activity, namely that it must be financed, and Denmark is characterised by the fact that we have had democratic structures, that we have had cooperatives and cooperatives that have helped us up to the level we have, and it is the democratic structures that are essential, not just the structures.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908165838	Thank you. Then it's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908165841	But it is absolutely true that the ability to train through education contributes to Denmark becoming a richer society. However, it is not true that this is what has primarily driven our prosperity development. The primary contribution to our prosperity development comes from increasing productivity, and the primary contribution to increasing productivity comes from employers' investment in the capital stock, which makes it possible. And now, sir... Christian Juhl and laughs down there, but you can just go to the National Bank and they've figured it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908165916	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908165919	Thank you. There is such a concept that has actually sneaked in from the Socialists and spread a little in the Folketing. That's the thing about the demographic trait, that is to say, as there are more older people and children pump more money into the municipalities. I think this is quite problematic, because we can see that the municipalities do not always spend this money just on basic core welfare. When they get more money, a great deal simply goes to central government and management rather than to basic core welfare. So I would like to ask a little bit about the Liberal Alliance's attitude to this demographic move, i.e. whether you think you should give the money out there or whether it would be better to set up a system where the money followed the citizens directly to the individual places, thereby validating the demographic move in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908170005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908170006	Well, whether the money goes to institutions or to citizens, the demographic move will mean that more money will have to go out there, because if there are more citizens who need to use the benefits, they will also get the money. Our approach is that when there are more elderly people and more children who need public services, there must also be more money; but alongside that, there must be more efficiency in public service production. Let me give you an example. The other day it came out in figures from the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior that the municipalities spend 7.9 billion. kr. Too much to manage compared to if they were all as good at managing as the ten best municipalities. I mean, it's not something about American conditions, it's not core welfare either. It is administration where the municipalities would be able to save 7.9 billion. kr., if they were just as good as the ten best municipalities. So this shows that there is also great potential to save money in the public sector, for example. just on administration with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908170111	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908170112	That is absolutely correct. Aarhus Municipality could, for example: save 206 million. kr. per year if they had the same level of central administration and management per year; residents such as: Aalborg Municipality. So there's plenty of money to get. The problem is that under the last government, the VLAK government, where the demographic move was used to throw 2.3 billion. kr. out to the municipalities, they actually spent 435 million on central administration and management, that is to say to increase it. So my point is that when you give money to the municipalities via the demographic trait, they are not really used for basic core welfare, but for a lot of possible djøferi and projectmaking, as well as for central administration and management. So if you just follow the demographic move and give the money to the municipalities, they will not be spent on basic core welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908170150	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908170151	Well, I think it is okay to give money to various institutions, etc., which follows how many citizens use those institutions, but I think that next to that there should be a requirement that you per. citizens provide the service more efficiently because we know that the potential is there. This was also known when the Social Democrats had a prime minister named Helle Thorning-Schmidt. At that time, a Productivity Commission was set up which told the then Social Democratic Government that under one could be saved 10%. in public consumption in the municipalities, if only the less skilled municipalities learned from the more skilled municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908170228	Sir. Malte Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908170230	Thank you. After all, the Liberal Alliance has decided to look after Danish business and working Denmark. Nevertheless, the Liberal Alliance has chosen to be outside the agreements on phasing out aid packages, stimuli initiatives, export agreements and summer packages, which will mean 20,000 to 25,000 more people employed next year than would otherwise have been the case. It's also going to mean a bigger bnp than we'd otherwise have had. And then the question is: does the rapporteur think that Danish companies and employees can count on the Liberal Alliance when the crisis scratches and the parties responsible meet for compromises to protect Danish business and to hold their hands under Danish jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908170320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908170321	I just think that sir... Malte Larsen also has to accept that there may be different ways to take Denmark forward and how to help the business community make Denmark richer. Our bid for this is not to distribute wage compensation schemes and create a state investment fund that buys shares in private companies, nor is it to give 1,000 DKK. to people on transfer income, or that you have to distribute free ferry tickets to people travelling around the summerland. So, that summer Christmas gift, which the Social Democratic Party and a majority in the Folketing would like to give out for the summer holidays, we were just not in it, because it is not our analysis that it is the kind of thing that makes Denmark richer. We know that it is just a matter of making one's hoss green with certain groups of voters.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908170417	Sir. Malte Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908170418	It is my impression that in the whole country and out in the outlying and rural areas and on the islands, we were quite happy with the extra turnover that arose in the farthest regions and the most coastal places we have in this country. And then just for follow-up: After all, and when it really burns on, is there a need for concrete solutions to prevent companies going bankrupt and employees losing the job, is it more important for the Liberal Alliance to make ideological markings rather than concrete solutions for working Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908170451	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908170452	I've never met anyone who wasn't happy with getting some free money. So the fact that they were happy to get some money out there is nothing more than that they were happy about it. Who doesn't want free money? So I'm just not buying that, and then I'm not buying that the socialist solutions generally work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908170528	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. This will enable us to go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Delors. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908170553	Thank you. Well, as most people know, I am the financial rapporteur for the alternative, and besides, I have 50 other rapporteurs. So that means there's a little something to do when you want to make it all. I do have help, however, because we have appointed a financial rapporteur who is not a member of the Danish Parliament, namely Kim Jerrild, who is one of the alternative members of the citizens' representation at Copenhagen City Hall. This gives us a very good professional base under the Financial Rapporteurship, and we have it anchored outside Christiansborg's thick walls. So it's actually on behalf of Kim that I'm giving this speech, and he's the one who briefed me before I try to answer questions intelligently if anyone comes. All in all, in the Alternative, we are super disappointed with the Finance Act, or at least with the Financial Act. In other words, it is clear that we are right in front of the big negotiations on the huge knots in the Climate Act, where we are going to start with transport and agriculture. In fact, we do not see that at all reflected in the draft budget. In other words, there should really be investment opportunities here in order to implement the world's most ambitious climate plan. We are also quite disappointed that the biodiversity plan that we had been promised has been postponed and, if we are to start there, a plan for more biodiversity and biodiversity should have been rolled out years ago, that is, and certainly not blown out by next year. Denmark, together with Bangladesh, is the country in the world that relatively has the most agriculture. Approx. 60% of Denmark is covered by agriculture, so we are the country in the world most in need of nature and biodiversity. It is clear that we are also disappointed that nature is so low-priority in the draft budget, and we are counting on some of the money from the so-called war box or green box or what to call it can benefit nature and biodiversity. We think we should get started now. I mean, the thing about postponing it, we just don't have the patience to do it. We have in Denmark approx. 60,000 ha of state forest • approx. 5,000 hectares are laid out for wild forest. Why don't we start with them? Why are we not saying that there should be no commercial forestry in our common forest? It simply has to be wild forest. We can adopt this here in the Folketing. We can say that the 55,000 hectares of state forest that have not yet been laid out for wild forest have to be laid out for untouched forest or grazing forest and abandon the commercial forest management. We have drawn up a forest plan in the Alternative Forest Catalogue which shows that a full restructuring of state forests will be possible by 2030 and will be able to re-establish the lush biodiversity recommended by the UN's 17 World Goals. So why not get started? And the 50 million. kr., which after all is devoted to nature in the draft budget, will be able to help a little bit here. They will actually be able to help you get started. So let us get on with what we can instead of just saying that it's all been postponed. However, the draft budget does not only fail biodiversity. I said before that approx. 60% of our country is covered by agriculture. In addition, we use 80%. of what we grow for animal feed so that we can produce meat. Here the fight for biodiversity and diversity in nature goes to work to reduce CO2 consumption, because meat production is one of the very large CO2 We have adopted a 70-percent reduction target for CO2 So, we are still proud in the alternative that we were the first to propose the 70-percent reduction, and if it turns out that our little party does not survive various barriers, then we have something to tell our grandchildren that we set some important goals and helped to do something important in our time. But, first of all, we intend to live many more years, and secondly, we intend to give the sustainable transition as much as we possibly can. After all, it is not we who should be standing here and making good ideas for financing. After all, they are the ones who are presenting the draft budget. However, as I have also asked several rapporteurs about here from my desk, while they were on the platform, it is interesting to discuss whether now, when you could so quickly borrow a whole lot of money for Corona, then billions that we can borrow, because we have a super credit rating, then not also if a green tax reform is not enough or the room for manoeuvre is too unstable, could borrow 50 billion. kr. or 100 billion. kr. or some of what we actually have to do in order to start financing the real green transition that our descendants are crying for. On last year's Finance Act, the Alternative set aside some money to investigate green bonds. In the Netherlands, 45 billion were written out. kr. green bonds in one day. Green bonds are bonds that are tied up on green investments. We have been in contact with the National Bank today, which are the ones that the government has set to examine the green bonds, and where they are at the moment, they are trying to define what is green, that is, what green bonds are to be used for. They cannot say exactly when the work is done, but we are following it and are glad that they are well underway. Finally, I would like to say something about a completely different area, because the alternative is not just a green party; we also have a social bottom line. One of our great dreams would be to top the Finance Act by 2-3 billion. kr., as we have calculated through what was called the Carsten Koch committee, is what we earn by dropping control and coercion and administration in the cash assistance system if we introduce cash benefits without counterclaims. In other words, if we have the courage to set the municipalities free, set the case workers free and set the unemployed free. If we did that, we could close the job centres and then we could build something new; something that actually has the service that the unemployed have earned. For my sake, it could be civil society-owned, yes, it could be civil society that built the jobs centres. Why does it have to be the municipality? The municipality could just have a small office. Why are it not the companies that have to hire the people who help build the job centres? Why can't you meet a psychologist or a health care professional or a therapist? Why can we not meet voluntary organizations? Why is the job centre not a place where you go in, whether you are sick or healthy or just need a quick job, and get the service that would be best in relation to the individual needs you have. I know it's expensive, but especially when we could make 2-3 billion. kr. to drop the fact that the case workers should sit and spend their time managing and controlling and forcing the unemployed around the mess. Then maybe the job centres could make some offers that were so good that people accepted them without being forced to do so. Of course, it takes us the courage to do away with the fact that people only work because we force them to do so. Well, it takes us the courage to understand that the Danes want to work. And the incredibly few who might not work if they could be free from it are so few that we would never need them on the labour market. Unemployment is not the fault of the unemployed. Unemployment is part of the market economy. There will always be unemployment • rising or falling • but at the moment we say it is the fault of the unemployed, we accuse them of something that is actually part of the economic system we use, and you cannot. Setting the unemployed free and giving them back their dignity and authority we think we are a super good economic investment, and we actually believe in the long term that it will benefit from various dynamic effects. And we also believe that restoring dignity in the world's most expensive employment system will be a huge human value. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908171444	There is a brief comment on Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908171445	I would like to hear from the alternative rapporteur whether the alternative is the first and only party in the red block which does not think that a lot of taxes should be introduced on green cars over time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908171502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908171503	I mean, the first ones who think they shouldn't? No.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908171511	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908171512	So, I have put this question to both Enhedslisten's rapporteur and SF's rapporteur and so on, and they both confirmed that they think that over time you should have a general registration fee on green cars too, not at the beginning, but over time you should have a registration fee on green cars. It sounded like Mr. Knox. Torsten Gejl didn't think his blockmates meant that kind of thing, but they do. So I ask again: does the alternative also mean that it is absolutely necessary to get registration tax on green cars over time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908171547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908171548	That's a good question. In other words, what we would like, at least, is to keep some very, very low registration fees, to say no registration fees, immediately. Take 20, 25, 30 years ahead: In this time perspective I will not rule out that it can be an idea if we have a totally large electric car fleet in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908171612	Victoria Velasquez, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908171614	Thank you very much for the rapporteur's speech and also thank you for the cooperation that we have in so many areas. Now a lot of the speech was green, but, as the rapporteur also concluded, at least in terms of social justice, we have been side by side many times, and that is something I really appreciate very much. It is a voice that needs to be lifted for many people who sometimes find it difficult to raise it themselves, and that is why I know that everything in here means the more people who travel it. So a heartfelt thank you for that. Now there is a lot of discussion about the economy, but there are also some of the assumptions of economic calculation models that we have both challenged several times, and I would like to ask two questions about that. The first concerns mutual dependants. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur agrees that there are a great many good things to be gained from the abolition of mutual dependents and the removal of some of the set-off rules that exist today and whether the rapporteur can give some examples of what we know could contribute positively to our society if we did so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908171715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908171716	The fact that people must be allowed to take care of each other, the fact that people can move together out of love, but also help each other when you're together, would, for example. be a dynamic gain because it will save money for nursing, it will save money for home care, i.e. when people who care about each other help each other in everyday life. It's just to give a simple example.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908171746	Thank you for that answer. I very much agree with that. There is another point where we also see that, unfortunately, there is not always complete logic in the way the calculator calculates, for example. in that we have equal access to health, that we give priority to primary school, kindergarten and many other things. One of the things about which I also share a vision is the creation of green jobs, including in welfare. But some of what we also want to season it with is green entrepreneurship, and here I would like to hear from the rapporteur how the rapporteur thinks we can strengthen green entrepreneurship, but also the thinking of employee democracy and other forms of employee-owned and consumer-owned companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908171830	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908171831	We want to make it easier to do the right thing and a little harder to do the wrong thing. We would like to support green entrepreneurship by having green taxes that are distributed in a way, so that if you take care of the environment, climate etc., it is cheaper for you. If you start in a way that doesn't take that into account, it's more expensive, and then you can also use some of the revenue you get by charging taxes on black businesses and black entrepreneurship to support, for example. The green ones. In addition, I believe that it must lie to the right to make it a little less difficult to be an entrepreneur in Denmark, especially a green entrepreneur. It's not that hard to get an SE number, it's not that hard to get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908171917	There are no more brief comments, and that is why we thank the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908171930	A year ago, we were standing here. Inuit Ataqatigiit had a very special priority: help for children in Greenland who have experienced a sexual assault. The figures are extreme, because they are up to one third of all children in Greenland. In Tasiilaq it is 61 per cent, and as much as 40 per cent. Unfortunately, children who have experienced sexual abuse experience it again. These are numbers that hurt, and that is why it is also a matter that we want to pursue. A year later, the government has taken on the task. 40 million kr. is provided for in the social negotiations, and new initiatives and funds are set aside in the police conciliation and in the forthcoming Finance Act. Similarly, we also tighten criminal law and generally take the problem more seriously at home in Greenland, where more new legislative changes are on the way. Generally speaking, we can see that virtually all the wishes that IA had a year ago have been initiated. We're not in the finish line, but we're on it, and it gives motivation to keep fighting. From the IA's side, we would like to thank the government for listening, first to the opposition in Greenland and later to a historically broad majority in Greenland who wanted cooperation. It is nothing less than a break in recent Greenlandic history that Denmark and Greenland cooperate in an area that has actually been taken home. Denmark has not taken over the social or children's area. The 80 million. kr. to combat abuse against children in Greenland must never become a sleeping pillow for Greenland. The responsibility is ours in Greenland. It is we who can bring about a lasting and positive change that is needed. The responsibility lies with parents, and it lies with us, the responsible politicians, and with the responsible leaders in the social services around here. It must never be misunderstood. It is a responsibility that we must take on home in Greenland. The Prime Minister calls himself the Prime Minister of the children, and now the Prime Minister is also the Prime Minister of the Greenlandic children, because together with the Naalaksuisut, the government has taken responsibility. Naalakkersuisut has acknowledged that we have not done well enough, that we have failed, and I would also like to commend Naala Suisut, because recognition is important to move forward. I would also like to thank the government once again for saying yes so clearly in its time to contribute, even though it is an area which may well be a little difficult and a little sensitive. Now we must jointly ensure that it is a success, because there is no guarantee, and for many years there are very many of us in Greenland who have heard good tones in Greenlandic politics that now there is help, and now it is the children's years, and yet nothing really happens. Many of the good recommendations have been made before, and therefore it is also important to understand that there are many of us who can be skeptical and who would like to see action and results before we can just as well put the task away. Often I get inquiries from parents and adult children who have experienced a sexual assault at close range. The anxiety, the lack of help and the details make it turn in the stomach. It is no joke, it is deeply serious, and I am really glad that we have started work, because the children's fates are shattered early in their lives, and for many it can also be difficult afterwards. One of the consequences that we are also talking about in Greenland, but perhaps not enough, is suicide when you are not met in relation to the needs you really have. The government, together with Naalaksuisut, has come up with 16 recommendations, well-known, relevant and important recommendations, and in my quiet mind I pray that they will be realized. But I also fear that it will not happen. We have seen before that gold and green forests have been promised in the social field only to be badly disappointed afterwards. It is not the government that I doubt very much, or Naala Suisut for that matter, but it is because of the many obstacles that we have in our society. Because when the unacceptable becomes normal and when we lack hands, there are really big challenges, so this is a huge task we have taken on. In Greenland we have a great many skilled social workers and professionals, for example. psychologists, but when the case workers are barely able to look beyond the piles on the table of the clients and the citizens, because they have so many cases on the table, we are on the same page, and then it is a huge, huge problem that we also have to solve. The bunkers need to get smaller, and that is perhaps the most important point I have here today. We need to talk much more about how to prevent new attacks instead of just making fire-fighting. How do we move from fire-fighting to prevention? And what is it that the 16 recommendations don't come around? Gives it, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Why is it that there are a great many Greenlandic social workers who are actually trained but choose to take another job? That is because working conditions are too hard. And then we put Danish social workers in instead? Is it sustainable? We do not necessarily think so. Can we solve the social challenges in Greenland without also solving the huge housing problem we have in Greenland? And how do we lift children's psychiatry, which we know is also having a hard time today? These are key and important issues to which we also need to provide solutions. Inuit Ataqatigiit would like to make ours that way, and it is a priority for us in the negotiations to secure funds for family houses in order to ensure that the child's legal position is strengthened in the future. Because, dear friends, this is the time for us to get started, and there is a huge amount of work ahead of us. And if we succeed in doing so, it will not only affect the individual child or children; it will affect the whole of Greenlandic society. Another track that we will follow in the forthcoming negotiations is the optimisation of the facilities in Greenland. Today it is the case that there are long waiting lists, so attackers who walk around the streets because they're on a waiting list for these hospitals meet the children they've been assaulting. We think it is important that we reduce this waiting list. In addition, over the summer we have seen in the Greenlandic news about lawlessness and challenges with hashish in the asylums, and from Inuit Ataqatigiits we think it is important that we find funding for the hash combat in the seven asylums in Greenland, and we will point out some concrete solutions in the negotiations that are coming. The entire Greenlandic legal community is built around rehabilitation and at times such a national romantic idea that we can convert people in the asylums. The reality is that 40%. in the establishments have also been placed as children. In fact, it is an inadequate social effort. Too many people return to the institutions and commit crime time and time again. The defendants make a good effort to employ the inmates, but we also know that we can do much more. When it comes to treatment, the government has set aside money for one year, but one year is not enough. And both treatment and employment are at the heart of rehabilitation. Today we have virtually nothing, at least not everywhere. Would like to see infringement proceedings for a period of four years and not just one year, and ideally it should actually be a firm offer to the offenders at home in Greenland, so that we ensure that there is no further abuse. Finally, I would like to say that the last track we will follow is the Arctic strategy of the Kingdom, which we know must be renewed this year. We are pleased that the work has begun, but we also miss the fact that the strategy is followed by some concrete initiatives. So we will point to a focus on human rights, on promoting human rights in Greenland and in the Arctic. We know that the ICC and IWGIA are doing a good job, and we believe that this work should be strengthened with greater involvement of stakeholders and citizens in Greenland, so that the role we actually have internationally as a frontrunner for indigenous peoples is strengthened. Today Greenland and Denmark are jointly seen as an ally when it comes to promoting basic rights in Greenland and in the Arctic, but it is also a role that we need to focus more on. The Greenland Human Rights Council points out, among other things, that: Increased focus on children in vulnerable families and people with disabilities and an increased focus on the right to housing for homeless people and families with children. In this way, we can ensure that the Kingdom's Arctic strategy goes from a fine glittered report to a strategy that actually makes a difference. With these words, I would like to thank you for your attention and I look forward to the negotiations with the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908172924	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908172929	Thank you for a very good speech from the rapporteur, where there was a good focus, I think, on children and, in particular, on the prevention of crime and abuse. One of the things that is of great relevance in this regard is the ongoing police negotiations, where some of the important starting points are also how to make some improvements for the Greenland Police. There has been a lot of talk about setting up a 13th police band, bringing together some specialised units, but the 13th police band already exists. It's Greenland Police. The new unit is the 15th police band, for there are two police districts in Greenland and the Faroe Islands respectively. One of the things that has been proposed is that we focus on the fact that the police have some worn-out buildings in Greenland and that we create a special unit for sexual abuse against children. But what is relevant, as the rapporteur rightly says, is: how do we ensure that prevention also comes in? One thing is that you have a unit that you can go to, but does the rapporteur have some good proposals on how to ensure that prevention is also well included in the police negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908173037	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908173038	Thank you very much. One of the things we think is important to focus on is the near police, in other words, more police to solve the tasks. We saw in the past in Greenland that there were a number of preventive measures, for example. "Conversation instead of violence, where you went to the 9th class in Greenland and met with the various young people and then ended by saying: I hope I don't meet you again. So I believe in the fact that we are also making some moves in which the police are taking initiatives to prevent crime; at least that is something that we support. But in the first place, I believe in more police. It simply takes a few more hands to solve the many tasks. We see, of course, that the number of notifications has increased quite dramatically because we are starting to talk much more openly about these challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908173134	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908173134-2	Another initiative that was planned was the modernisation of the police force, including: in relation to the buildings that are that appear very worn out. It can be difficult and undignified for citizens to go to a worn-out building when it is a very serious matter which can, as it were, be considered. Are there other things that are important and that the rapporteur thinks should be taken into account when it comes to modernising Greenland's police?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908173200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908173200-2	Thank you very much for the question. Fortunately, 16 out of the 20 million have been secured. kr. is needed to modernise the building stock in Greenland, so fortunately it is going the right way • we are just missing the last 4 million. kr. But what I would like to point out is that we have police stations where there is only one police officer, which means that you are a police officer 24 hours a day. It is no-go in the Danish police that you send a cop out alone, but you do that in Greenland, five places. So it's also an area you have to focus on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908173234	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908173236	Thank you very much for that and also thank you for a very good rapporteur's speech. I really think it has been very exciting to hear, because there is no doubt that the rapporteur has a passionate relationship with the social challenges that are in Greenland. And there is no doubt that, on the other hand, I also hear that there is a clear call that it is not just a question of the government going to the field, but that it is the whole of the Folketing that is going to have to go to work in order to solve these problems. I hope that the rapporteur would also like to put a few more words on what is expected of the Folketing, and not necessarily just by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908173332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908173333	Thank you very much. I do not quite know whether the rapporteur was there at the beginning, but I actually praised the government repeatedly and thanked it for its cooperation, good cooperation. I think the government has really taken on the task. I found out an old negotiating paper and could almost check all things off and say that we are at least in the process. It may be that we have not fully achieved our goal, but we are in the process. I think that is actually quite positive, and I would very much like to acknowledge that, in other words, we are well under way. Then you can say that we have to talk about what we do after 2023. Now we've started a four-year job. How can we ensure that it is not necessarily so dependent on who sits in the Prime Minister's Chair and that, if it should come to that afterwards, a blue government is willing to continue the good cooperation? Because there is no doubt that this must not be so dependent on a party. This has to be dependent on a broad majority in the Folketing, so it is an area that will be given priority, regardless of who sits in the Prime Minister's Chair.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908173437	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908173439	Thank you. It is always nice to get some recognition, and there is no doubt that the government is also a dog for praise, and that is also why I am asking about it again, i.e. if we could not get anything more! No, my point is, of course, that there is no doubt that the challenges we face must be united. And I noticed that the rapporteur also pointed out that it would then be the Folketing that would be involved in this work here. And I hope that the rapporteur will be able to expand our thoughts a little on how we could involve Parliament as well as possible in resolving some of Greenland's problems, so that it is not just a question of the government doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908173516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908173517	Thank you very much. We have quite specifically mentioned the Family Court House. In the past we have pointed to children's houses, which we believe should also be the focus of attention in Greenland. In the area of justice, there are many other points that could also be pointed out. But we have to keep our noses in the tracks. Maybe it's really the most important challenge... and then keep up with the good work that's started. And I'm really glad that the government like to take on the task and that the Folketing backs up, because that's what I'm experiencing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908173546	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908173549	Thank you. Thank you for a very specific speech, and thank you, by the way, for your good, productive and objective cooperation. What is good about the rapporteur at the moment, IA, is that the rapporteur is extremely result-oriented and is in the flesh of every minister in order to find solutions. I believe that this is the reason for a large part of the results that have been achieved. I also agree that the 16 points in the area of children are an extremely important start to a long process which, I hope, will continue in the areas that are not included, namely what is seriously intended to prevent further abuse. I look forward to that and I look forward to seeing whether there will be new areas where we can back things up. Then I think it is a sensible innovation, and that it is concrete bids that are given, that when you take home a task, it is not enough just to say that then you move the payer, that is, who has to pay and who has to take care of it, and then it is out of sight and out of mind for the Folketing and Denmark. I think we should look at the repatriation of tasks as a process where they simply say: well, we are now formally taking a decision on that date, but the process must be carried out jointly. We are a community in the Kingdom community, and we must help each other wherever we can, also to deliver the tasks in a better way than we have done so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908173716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908173720	This is an extraordinary situation, as I see it, and it must therefore be said that it was something in which Naala Suisut has acknowledged that there was nothing to do about it, or at least not enough has been done about it. The municipalities haven't done enough. There's a huge piece of work that we can't lift alone. I have also discussed this here, as I had a meeting with the Prime Minister, because it is also important to me that we should have a political discussion about whether the door we have opened is a door we must close in, or whether it is a door we should leave open, understood in that way, whether it is a cooperation that we should also continue after 2023. I think it is quite clear, and I also thought it was the Prime Minister's position on the issue. We have 34 times as much personal crime. violence, rape and sexual abuse compared with Denmark. If you just stop and think about it for two seconds, it's pretty violent that there are some things in our society that are so complex. Now we have started to tackle sexual abuse, but in that way it is something that Greenland should actually solve itself. So, yes, it's a process, and right now it's those kids and kids we're focused on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908173838	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908173839	I fully agree with that, and I would at least like to give an undertaking that we will continue to work together in areas where Greenland believes that it is an advantage for us to cooperate. Whether it is a lot or a small amount of money that needs to be spent, it is important that we help each other. Something else is that there are some great powers who have spotted Greenland, and I do not know why they are so interested in coming to Greenland; yes, I know very well about the issue of your underground, and that there are a whole lot of security policy issues, but I would like to know how the rapporteur sees the possibility that Greenland can maintain a self-government where you decide for your country when such great powers start to take an interest in both economics, underground and security policy. I find it quite overwhelming that this interest is so great, especially on the part of China and the United States.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908173927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908173928	I share the view expressed earlier by many, namely that there will be a vacuum. If Greenland becomes independent, i.e. We are talking a number of years in the future, and there will be a vacuum. I think that we have been cemented, that Greenland and Denmark are united and that Greenland wants to be part of the kingdom community. We had that cemented when Trump was out saying he wanted to buy Greenland. Then you might ask if there is an alternative to the Americans. I do not think it is a good alternative if I am to be quite honest, and therefore I believe that we must also look constructively at what we can then do to ensure that the situation with the triangle that is is resolved in a good way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908174016	Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908174017	Thank you. I would just like to thank the rapporteur for her enormous commitment. Now it is rare for me to agree very much with Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl, but I agree that the fact that an area has been repatriated is not the same as the fact that there can be no more cooperation. Although the issue of children at risk is a very, very sad one, it reflects the fact that we can have really, very positive cooperation, despite the fact that the area has been taken home. So I would just like to thank the rapporteur for the great commitment the rapporteur has in the area of justice, including in relation to prisons and inmates. This is something on which we Conservatives are very concerned and on which we would like to continue working with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908174101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908174101-2	Thank you very much to the rapporteur and also thank you for your good cooperation. I think it shows how important a broad cooperation in the Folketing is, and also how important a broad commitment from the Greenland rapporteurs and from the other parties is in fact. This is extremely important to us. I think it is important to say that we also need to maintain hope. Many times, when I talk about these numbers in relation to exposed children, people sit and look a little sad and something like that, but I just think it's very important to believe that it makes a difference that we talk about it and maybe also a little airing the dirty laundry. I think that is important in order to solve the problems that exist. That's why I think the recognition is so important. The fact that we take it forward and look at it and solve it is really the whole prerequisite for Greenlandic society. Many people think that social policy may be something we should do when there is no more fun with foreign policy, business policy and trade policy, but in Greenland it means too much education, it means too much for business development, and it really means everything to the development of Greenland as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908174210	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908174211	Thank you, and also thank you for your speech. Thank you for the good cooperation that we have. I would like to ask a few questions about something that matters both to the SF and which I also know is important to IA and to the rapporteur, namely the conditions for children. The rapporteur himself referred to this in his speech in relation to the children in Greenland and how difficult it can be to maintain trained staff because of the circumstances. Could the rapporteur not try to put a little more words on what could be done extra to make more people stay and also to attract new staff?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908174302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908174303	Thank you very much and thank you for the question. If you have to take these two very specific categories of staff, you could take first of all, for example. The educators. We need a lot of trained educators. Many of those who are educated choose to do something else because wages are simply too low. In the same way, it can be said with the social workers. If they have 300 cases per person. As I know that many of my former colleagues and employees do, it is difficult to understand it at all, and then it may be easier to cross the street and get a job where the pressure of work is not so great.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908174359	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908174400	Thank you. Yeah, and that's the problem, you might say. What can we do in Denmark and in the Folketing, and what can we do in Greenland to solve this problem? The rapporteur is talking about a political agreement, which is not otherwise done in respect of the Greenlandic model, but what else could be done? I do not think that a minimum model could be transferred directly to one from Denmark to Greenland or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908174443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908174444	Thank you very much. It is another education that you can go home in Greenland, and also another agreement. One focus is that we continue to focus on all the things that the 16 recommendations do not point to, i.e. children's psychiatry, the housing problems that you have to solve at home in Greenland, the salaries of the educators, that is something that Greenland can solve itself. But when we keep talking about it, it also gets a political focus, and that is why I take it up here today, but it is a responsibility that lies at home in Greenland. As far as social workers are concerned, this is indeed an indicative figure. In other words, you only have 25 to 30 cases per person. Caseworker. And, of course, it would also be appropriate to look at pay and working conditions, but again it is a responsibility at home in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908174527	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam from Siumut.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908174538	This year we are talking about a very unusual financial law. It is a bill of finance that is deeply influenced by the fact that the world is exposed to an all-over-shadowing pandemic, which over the late winter and early spring has just spread like a wildfire all over the world. In Denmark, the government and its support parties and not to forget the opposition together with Greenlandic, Faroese and Danish colleagues have stood cargo and burst into a situation that has required unusual decisions. I must not fail to say that I feel proud to be part of a Parliament which could stand together across political divisions across geographical boundaries and which backed our current government in the very difficult but necessary decisions that had to be taken. Now it is becoming ordinary everyday again at the Castle. We are beginning to feel the political divisions. We have begun to mark our positions, and we now also want part of the state's financial law to be drawn up on the basis of our political ideologies. But politics is not just ideology or fighting for wealth. Politics is also how we handle each other. So I stand before you here today because I would like to remind you that there are Danish citizens who often forget the book, namely Danish citizens with Greenlandic background. So in the past, when I've been talking about all that with our dark side of our common history, it hasn't been to blame anyone. It has been just as much to give a greater insight into why we are standing here, where we stand today. For decades, government employees with Greenlandic background who work under the same or sometimes harder conditions than their Danish colleagues have had to stand back on the sidelines because their salaries were less than those of their Danish colleagues. So I am proud that by the last financial law we could sit down together and talk this through, and that afterwards we have managed to find out how we can make things much more equal. Police and asylum officers are the ones who strengthen legal certainty at home in Greenland, and it is a Danish responsibility that we must remember when we stand in here and we still have a long way to go. That was also talked about not long ago by my Greenlandic colleague. That is something we agree on. We also need to talk about legal certainty in all the other areas. Now it has been strengthened, but we still have to do more. Additional money has also been given to the area of justice. This is something that Siumut in the Folketing and Naalaksuisut have fought for. We appreciate that. However, let us not forget that there are still waiting lists for the institutions, that there is still a lot of crime, including against children, and we need to remember that these are areas of responsibility and legislation that we need to bring with us when we start debating the Finance Act. It was the case that during my time as a child counsellor in NAKUUSA, UNICEF, I traveled to various towns and villages and also talked to the children. It was for the same reason that I entered politics. It should not therefore go unnoticed that last year's Finance Act saw the first major step towards trust and community. Here, a Minister for Social Affairs, Mrs Astrid Krag, from Denmark and a member of Naalaksuisut, Martha Abelsen, could sit together and be together on what we actually agree on about something that brings us together, namely our children. I would therefore also like to thank the Minister for Social Affairs and Martha Abelsen very much for allowing us to move forward. Again, we have only just begun, but we are pleased that during the first year we have taken the first steps towards many things. There are many things that have been fought for by Greenlandic MPs for decades. This year, as I also started by saying, we have a Corona Finance Act, and the pandemic has thus been strict for many of us. It is also the case that many of my fellow citizens in Greenland have also felt this pressure. The difference is that some of us have to travel infinitely far from home in order to get treatment in the Kingdom Hospital in some cases, and in many of these cases you have to do without your nearest ones for long periods, and you get away from everything that you find safely away from the family, away from familiar surroundings. That is why last year we also fought for the Greenlandic patients' homes in Denmark also to have allocated additional funds. The need for security and recognizability in these times is even greater. In Siumut we also want to take care of those who have the most difficulty in this six months' time in the forthcoming financial negotiations, namely Greenlandic patients and their accompanying relatives in Denmark. We need to create a basis for ensuring better social conditions, and this is an important starting point, although there are also jobs that we need to secure, namely in relation to employment for everyone. This applies to the safety of everyone, including children, whom we also need to think about. For, like the rest of the world, we in Greenland are still very vulnerable to cyclical changes, and Greenlandic fishing exports are only beginning to feel the first swells of the consequences of the pandemic, and a continued epidemic will, overall, have a negative impact on exports. According to the Economic Council, fishing companies expect a fall of as much as 50 per cent. in some cases, and right now it is an average of 20 per cent. It is, of course, dependent on fisheries products and species, but it is important for the inhabitants, as the price of intervention in Greenland goes in the negative direction. This could mean failing tax revenue, failing revenue for fishermen landing their fish to the factories, and thus a potentially violent impact on daily life in Greenland. Now we all know who sits here that we in the Folketing have no direct influence on the conditions I mention, and in respect of Naalaksuisut I am sure that the existing self-government will take both timely and appropriate measures, but yet as elected representatives in Greenland and elected to the Folketing I will not refrain from commenting that when Danish institutions, foundations, ministries invest in Greenland through the Growth Fund, or when it comes to our critical infrastructure, I also have a look to ensure more equality across Greenland. Thus, I believe that capital should also be given priority to business projects outside the capital Nuuk, and that investment and loans should help to create the breeding ground for a better economy in those parts of the kingdom which do not share in the same wealth that many of the larger cities have. Now our world is upside down and we have had to figure out how to get through this pandemic and the upcoming economic crisis, but it really requires humanity to those citizens who need it most, but it will also require a great deal of adaptability, creativity, innovation, and that is what usually gets humanity through these difficult crises. So I look forward to entering into the negotiations on the forthcoming Finance Act, and I sincerely and truly hope that we all, with our common sense and the ability to look beyond our contradictions together, can bring the ends to meet and contribute to all Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908175432	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908175437	Thank you and thank you for the speech by Siumut's rapporteur. Of course it is great to see the two ministers sign, but I would now like to say that we must always remember how things develop in a society, and if there had been no one here in the Danish Parliament who had tried to break the taboo on the children for years, and had no one in Greenland tried to break the taboo so that they could communicate a development so that the ministers could sign it at some point, it would never have happened. I think that if that were not the dynamics of the communities and here in the Folketing and no one took it seriously, it would never have happened. The ministers do not do it on their own; they must always be helped a little and raised a little sometimes. That's one thing. Another question I really want to ask is: if you are going to make good social policy and be an independent country, you have to have a good economy. And a good social policy also presupposes that there is not much inequality. What has shocked me most about visiting Greenland is the great inequality that is in society. What proposals does the rapporteur have to resolve, in particular, the issue of inequality?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908175545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908175546	First of all, thank you for your question. I see that there is a brief remark and a little question. To start a little with it around children in general: Well, it's a battle you've been taking for decades; that's right. It is also something that I have examined myself with UNICEF's NAKUUSA, which was also a collaboration with Denmark. It has also helped to push some boundaries. But what we need to think about is that it is about people in themselves, and that is why I think it is important that it has also been taken up today. About inequality: It has a lot of aspects. It is a difficult area, also because the inequality is unfortunately many times highest in relation to ethnicity between Greenlanders and Danes. It is a problem, and that is what helps to create the idea that inequality is also due to a particular nationality. If we're going to break with that, we also have to be able to talk about why there's exactly this inequality between the two peoples.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908175658	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908175659	Now I also see inequality between the Greenland elite and the Greenlandic prisoners, a very great inequality, and Greenland itself provides figures on it. That is why it is also important to discuss the inequality in Greenlandic society among Greenlanders if we are to solve the social problems; but now I am not going to solve them. It may well happen that it is a taboo to discuss it I do not know, and I hope it is not but it is quite important. After all, we have been discussing this for a hundred years in Denmark and keeping inequality at a lower level than the Greenlanders have, and I think that has been an advantage for Danish society. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908175735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908175737	And I think it's good that you ask. I do not see this as a taboo; I see it as a subject we are also discussing in Greenland. When I take this up, it's just because I think it's important that you also point out that the reason why the discussion in Greenland is quickly going to be about Danes and Greenlanders and how the inequality is there is because there are real systematic and structural obstacles to who is doing best in the country. Now I ran out of time, I'd like to answer more.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908175810	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908175812	Thank you for your speech to the rapporteur. As the legal rapporteur, I am of course pleased with the great focus on justice, and I am also pleased that the rapporteur, among other things, is here. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is what we have been discussing in the prisons, which we have been looking at in the last year, when there have been challenges in recruiting the staff needed in prisons. Although a certain level has been set, the staff required were not able to be recruited. And, of course, there is a reason for having a given standard, and it is in order to maintain security and to provide the necessary rehabilitation work, etc., that is needed in prisons. It is a very good thing that we have had some extra funds set aside for this. And that is also what I was talking about with the former rapporteur, namely that the new police conciliation is intended for us to have a unit specifically aimed at sexual abuse of children. But how do we make sure it doesn't get there? How do we make sure you don't go to the police and you don't go to jail? What could be a good element of prevention?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908175921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908175922	What I also think has been interesting when we looked at why the figure could be so high was how it was arranged. Because in Greenland we are not punishing; we are taking action. This is one of the things we need to discuss. If we look at the ancient Greenlandic culture and the principles of the early 1900s, you actually punished your people. But then you came and said that you should actually have less stringent measures, because it is about noble wild people One thing that I also think we could talk about is the principle of the perpetrator, which we follow in Greenland, where we look a lot at the perpetrator instead of looking at the deed itself. And in this way, for example, gets. sex offenders against children also only one year in an institution, an open institution where they can go out into the city, rather than being punished more severely.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908180029	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908180030	Thank you for a very good, qualified answer, I think, with the focus on rehabilitation, which is of course important for not committing crime again, because once you have committed something bad, you must of course have a severe punishment for it. But what is important is that we do not get the next victim; that we do not commit crime next time. But what we are also looking at is police action, which may be necessary at times. And I would like to know whether the rapporteur has any specific views on what is needed to ensure that we have a more modern police force, because that is one of the things we are going to focus on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908180107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908180108	First of all, there are many aspects that we need to look at. Now you mentioned the police yourself, but we also need to look at the police, so there are several aspects. There are many establishments around the coast if you do not mention the new hospital in Nuuk which is in decay; it is a huge problem. We also have poor pay conditions, poor working conditions, which we need to improve if we want better measures. We need to look at whether what we give to the economy, to the area of justice in Greenland is actually enough in relation to the geographical, demographic and cultural differences that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908180144	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908180149	Well, thank you very much to the rapporteur for a very good speech. It was a speech which testifies to the fact that the rapporteur, of course, is passionate about Greenland and in order to do the best for the large, large island. But I also hear that there are a great many requests, and it is, of course, very, very good, when it comes to starting negotiations up to a financial law agreement, that you also have some wishes and some clear objectives for them. I also hear that the rapporteur would like to admonish that we should negotiate with reason. And if I know the Minister of Finance right, you will certainly have reason to overdo your negotiations. One of the things I feel a little bit bit about, however, is that the rapporteur also talks about the fact that the Danish state should be able to work a little more for a straight Greenland, i.e. a straight Greenland compared to the areas outside the larger cities, I understand. Can the rapporteur clarify how the rapporteur sees that the Danish state should be able to work for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908180248	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908180249	Yeah, I'd love to. I would like to mention that although it is a Greenlandic responsibility and it is important to point out that it has still been fought for, including by the previous government, in relation to the Growth Fund, where some funds have been provided. And even if it's good, I had a little trouble with it too, when I saw it, because it seemed they just said: Here's a lot of money, take for you! I think that if we are to combat inequality and if, through the Growth Fund or anything else, we are to start speeding up the professions in Greenland, we will also have to specifically earmark the effort so that we combat the huge inequality across geography, but also for the benefit of everyone in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908180339	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Now it is the case that there is still a rapporteur left before the Finance Minister, so I think that we are taking the last rapporteur and then we will take an evening break before the Finance Minister goes on. But first, sir. Sjúrður Skaale from Javnaðarflokkurin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908180400	The document we are discussing today is about 500 pages of Finance Act and 2,500 pages of Annexes or comments on the Finance Act. The Faroe Islands are mentioned 194 times on the 3,000 pages. If you add up everything, it takes up a few pages and the numbers are small. If we take the debate we have had today, then the small amounts sent to the Faroe Islands will be nothing. No one has dealt with them. It's not mentioned at all. So my curriculum is not as large as that of the others, and that is exactly how it should be. Economic dependence on Denmark is something that the Faroe Islands have been aiming for many years to get out of. The block subsidy was reduced by one third in 2002 and has almost always been frozen nominally since then so that it will actually be smaller year by year. Today it is 641.8 million. kr. corresponding to just under 4%. of the Faroe Islands bnp and c. 13-14 per cent of the total expenditure of the Treasury. I'm a little proud to say that all parties have been involved in this nominal freeze of the subsidy. If the Faroe Islands had not followed the course that they have been taking since 2002, the amount today would be on the basis of it is a little difficult to calculate but at least more than 1.4 billion. kr., more than twice what it is. So that is well over 700 million. kr. annual from the Faroe Islands to Denmark. Enjoy! Now use the money with care, as you usually say. There are, of course, other, smaller items than the block grant, which are Danish responsibilities, but also they are quietly taken over one by one. It is therefore not a revolution, but it is a development in which the Faroe Islands are just as quietly drifting out of the Danish Finance Act. The result is a more independent Faroese society and a much healthier kingdom community. There are, of course, heavy posts left, as can be seen in the Finance Act, for example. police and judiciary, but if we look at the big picture, I do not think it can be said that one earns the other, as we just stand. The Faroe Islands have e.g. the world's most prominent import-export economy, and almost everything goes through Denmark. It's not a bad business. There are also common areas where the Faroe Islands pay directly to Denmark. For example, I have. a study that shows that the VAT on the digital goods and services on which we spend an increasing proportion of our income ends up in the Treasury when a Faroese user buys it. This is a mistake which I hope we can correct, but it is just an example of the fact that the Danish and Faroese economies are connected vessels, and there is nothing wrong with that overall. Just as bad as one-sided dependence is, just as good is cooperation. That is why I am very pleased that in the last year I have been able to make agreements where the government, together with other parties in the Faroe Islands, sometimes also in Denmark, both private and public, has been willing to participate in joint funding of various projects in the fields of research, culture and education. I hope that, despite the awkward Corona Finance Act, we will be able to continue with it this year. I am certainly looking forward to meeting with the Minister for Finance for a discussion on what we can find out. I also hope that the government will respond to the requests made by my colleague Edmund Joensen and I to the Minister for Justice last week about the improvements that it is urgent to have made in the Faroe Islands police. It is a Danish responsibility and there are things that are not right. Finally, it is likely that major investments will be made in inspection ships, in radar systems and in other hardware in the coming years. Unfortunately, this requires developments in the Arctic. Unfortunately, this requires the ever-greater Russian armament and aggression. Firstly, it is very important that no decision is taken on these matters outside the Faroese authorities. Secondly, if you decide to invest together, Faroese companies should be given the opportunity to participate from the very beginning, not only as workers, but also as advisors, as well as possible ships and possible installations on land. The government should bear in mind that maximum Faroese involvement is a prerequisite both politically and professionally for understanding and supporting the policy that will probably need to be pursued in the North Atlantic in the coming years. So, less one-sided economic and political dependence and more cooperation between the two sides is the most promising way forward, so let us work together on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908181005	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908181007	Well, I would first like to say a lot of thanks for the great financial support from the Faroe Islands, please keep doing that, because we will be using them here in Denmark. It may even be that we will also get the last 600 million. kr. It's a good sign that in these years the Faroe Islands really have a good economy, and I think it can please anyone, whether you're blue or red or green. What I would like to ask is about the last subject, that of military armament in the Arctic. Is it the belief of the Faroese that the Faroese people want more installations and more military in the Faroe Islands, or should we aim to stick to the low-voltage principle of the Ilulissat Declaration and thus say that it does not work out and that we have to say to the great powers: do not do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908181102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908181103	It is everyone's wish that no military installations should be set up at all. It's everyone's wish. But, as the questioner knows, it was sent, for example. on the Swedish side two years ago a lot of soldiers and tanks to Gotland because the Russian forces had come really close to Gotland and you were afraid of what happened there. When it can happen in Crimea, can't it happen on Gotland? This is, of course, the reality with which we are unfortunately living, and I think that there would be an understanding for the fact that, for example, there is a dialogue between the two sides of industry. a radar will be set up on the Faroe Islands if necessary to have a better overview and an insight into what is happening around the Faroe Islands. I think that will be necessary, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908181151	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908181153	But everyone knows that a spiral grows upwards if both parties or all three parties add to it all the time. Then you can always say that you were the last one to add something to and equip, but no, it was you, because we're going a little further down, but no, it was you. And then you can keep getting a spiral that goes all the way up like during the Cold War. Then it starts to cost money, because then all of us will have to pay for it, and it is not certain that there will then be so much profits in the Faroe Islands, nor is it certain that more military security will increase, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908181225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908181226	It is quite true that it is a tragic spiral that you end up in when you talk about armaments. We saw that during the Cold War. Fortunately, the spiral turned backwards, and we got a long period where there were no installations in the Faroe Islands at all. But I just think that when you see what happens in, for example... The Baltic Sea, then you have to deal with it. And I guess putting up a rudder isn't an aggression in itself. It's just to see what happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908181301	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908181305	Thank you to the rapporteur for a good speech. Like my colleague from the Enhedslisten, I am also incredibly happy that this way there seems to be more and more money flowing from the Faroe Islands to Denmark. Now we are from the same party, so I am sure that the rapporteur could tell us something about solidarity, and we are of course very pleased that the Faroe Islands also want to show solidarity with Denmark. However, I would also like to ask a few questions about the fact that we are talking about the fact that the Faroe Islands are stronger, especially financially, to strengthen the Kingdom community. Could the rapporteur put a few more words on how the rapporteur sees that the Kingdom community can be strengthened by the Faroe Islands getting stronger?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908181350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908181350-2	Thank you for the question. It is well as in any relationship that if there is an addiction, if the woman or man is financially dependent on the other party in the relationship, then it becomes less equal, and then it will fill a lot. It will determine what else the relationship is when there is an economic dependency relationship. One can get the idea that there is less voluntaryness, less self-chosen things, because one is dependent on the other; one has to choose it. If one comes to the conclusion that there is no one-sided dependence where one is dependent on the other, then I think that one can build a completely different relationship where one can talk to one another as equals, and that will be a much more healthy human relationship.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908181443	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908181446	Thank you. There is no doubt about that. In the same respect, it is also important that the Faroe Islands, as the rapporteur also mentioned briefly, enter into cooperation on an Arctic strategy. I would just like to ask the rapporteur briefly: how does the rapporteur see the Faroe Islands taking a positive role in the development of an Arctic strategy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908181508	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908181509	It is difficult to say within half a minute, but as I have said many times, when it comes to the Arctic, you can have a really great impact. Greenland is, after all, the most important country, the most important area; it is a huge geographical area. The Faroe Islands are on the threshold between Europe and the Arctic, and even though Denmark is a small country, it is 100 times as large in population and economy as the others. Denmark has a much larger economic and diplomatic muscle, and together the three parties can create a synergy effect which I believe can give impact.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908181546	Thank you. Thanks to Sjúrður Skaale. There are no more brief comments. Then we take an evening break and the meeting will resume at 1 p.m. 7:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908190000	Then it's exactly 7:00 p.m. and we'll resume the meeting. We are engaged in the debate on the financial bill. I shall give the floor to the Minister for Finance, who now has a maximum of 1⁄2 hour to explain the government's draft budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908190022	Thank you. Thank you for the floor, and thank you for today's debate, which, on the one hand, has been extremely peaceful and, on the other hand, has provided a unique insight into the understanding of literature and wildlife by the Members of Parliament. After all, it is an enrichment one could only have dreamed of in advance. I will put it this way: after hearing the rapporteurs of all the parties that they have a better idea of what the Finance Act should be like than the government has. And it has the great advantage that then things can only get better when we have to negotiate in the future. I look forward to it. There is no doubt that we are in a very serious situation with the Danish economy. The whole world has been hit by corona. It is something that affects health; it has cost lives, including in Denmark, and it has also cost quality of life. And of course it has also hit our economy; a lot of people have lost their jobs, businesses have been pushed to their knees. We have been tested as a country and as a community in a way that we have not seen since World War II. That is why I would also like to start by thanking the Danish Parliament for what I think has been an incredibly distinguished effort in showing the co-operative popular rule during the crisis we have been through. We have together made a number of help packages. We have taken a number of initiatives and taken responsibility for getting Denmark well through the crisis in a way that includes: This meant that one day in the spring, as Finance Minister, I could present the first aid package with representatives from all the parties of the Danish Parliament and also with the social partners, where a tripartite agreement was made in 24 hours. With an easy rewrite of a text from a band that I appreciate very much and which comes from my hometown, TV 2: It is Denmark at its best. And what makes it even better is that it is not only politicians and decision-makers, but it is our entire society that has taken responsibility. It is every Dane who has had this in life that is also helping to get us through the crisis. A lot has gone well. Even though we have been hit hard, we have come through better than many others. But we are by no means out in the light yet. There is still a dangerous road ahead of us, and we still have to make wise decisions, much more so in a broad community. This also applies to our economy. Before the corona hit, we were faced with a situation where the Danish economy was strong and where we could see that employment was rising. It was said that companies could find it difficult to get the manpower they needed. We could see that Danish economy was in crumble waters. Then came the corona, and with enormous force it hit not only Denmark, but the world around us. And if we look at the best estimate of what the result for our economy will be this year, it will be that we have lost many jobs and that we will have a reduction in GDP of 4.5%. It is a huge stroke of kidney that we have had there in the Danish economy. The good news is that, after all, we can see that there is improvement in the waters and that next year we expect an increase in GDP of over 4%. However, there are also major uncertainties that we need to take into account when making a financial law with each other this year. It is, among other things, that 800 000 jobs in this country are deeply dependent on what is happening in the world around us. Because even if we together in this fantastic Denmark make all the right decisions, we are a small and open economy that is so dependent on what is happening around us. And when we look to the United States, when we look to Germany, when we look to Britain and hear the whole discussion about brexit right now, when we look at our closest trading partners at all, then there is cause for concern. That is also one of the very great reasons why we have to say to each other: this year's Finance Act will be a Corona Finance Act. I have heard a lot of good wishes throughout the day for everything each party wants to spend money on. For a large part, I must also say that I think it is sympathetic, and it is certainly things that could help to make Denmark better. Some of which I disagree with, then, I shall come back to. But basically, the task we have now, I have as Finance Minister, and the government and we together as Parliament have, is to get Denmark as best we can through the crisis also on the next stretch. It also means that when we have to prioritize it, there will be some things that will then not be able to afford at the same time something that will have to wait until we have this situation dealt with. What you think is most important depends, of course, on the eyes that see. But I actually think that a lot of Danes will understand that you have to take the most important first. That is also the reason why, in the Finance Act, we have, among other things, been doing so. It's up to us to have the war box of the 9.2 billion. kr. It has been asked why it is not just called a reserve or a crisis box or something else, and one could have done so. When I have chosen to call it a war chest, it is because it is a good expression from an old defence minister who also very well describes what we are: we are at war in terms of combating the virus we face, with the effects it has on our society economically and in terms of health. What are the 9.2 billion? kr. So used for? has been asked about in this room, and it is quite reasonable and sensible to ask that question. The large amount of money must be used to be a reserve, we have ready for what might come ahead. Because if there is something we have learned from the corona in recent months, it is that we cannot know in advance how it develops, what challenges we face and how it affects us as people and as a society. That is why it is right, very wise, that we have set aside some money to boost our economy, or we can pay for vaccines or to strengthen the test capacity if we need it. So it's to stimulate our economy, much like with initiatives that can also support green development... it's the government completely agree that we should take care of our health care. This is the most important task we have here, and that is, no matter what party we come from. And if we can't solve it, we haven't done it well enough. From the government's point of view, when we look at the economy, unemployment is the real challenge. We can see that thousands of people have lost their jobs. We can also see that the aid packages we started have had an effect. When it was at its peak, there were almost 250 000 people whose jobs we jointly held hands under, so that they were not at risk of getting a note. The initiatives we take from the government to stimulate the economy where we go all the way to the edge of the budget law, but the fact is that it is still within a completely responsible framework that we are also trying to get the wheels moving. The effect of this will be approx. 46,000 persons employed. So if we had not set these initiatives in motion, we could not be sure that they could keep their work. Does this mean that with a fingertips we can solve everything, that it's all over next year? No, it doesn't. I wish I could say something else from this platform, but we all know very well in our stomachs that this crisis has hit us so hard that we do not get over it in record time. However, we can set a direction and we can continue along the path that we have taken together with the aid packages, thereby also helping to get us through the crisis in the best possible way. I have been pleased with the many speeches that have been made here today, and I would like to comment on a number of them. As I said, there has also been an opportunity to get around the animal kingdom. Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen described the greatest happiness one can experience as a human being, whether one is a politician or not, namely to become a father. Then you can discuss whether it is part of the same level of happiness to hear Gurli Gris, but that is at least one of the things that most families of children can nod to. Others were at Harry Potter, and even George Orwell was inside, who was Comrade Napoleon and an old acquaintance: Our good friend, the elephant, came by too. So we've really enjoyed it. Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, however, in addition to Gurli Gris also described Rasmus Klump, and this is really something that I recognize. Back from childhood, I was very, very fond of Rasmus Klump, and I had such a savings box with Rasmus Klump. As a finance minister, that was the way to train people to have money for the times that had to come. So I can really relate to it, and I must also say that the description which Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen has, in relation to the fact that they travel around and experience a lot and then come back to the mother in the kitchen, who is making pancakes, and that they are all incredibly busy eating those pancakes and maybe not thinking so much about making them too, is a picture I actually recognize. I'll tell you what. Well, it's actually a lot like being a finance minister that people travel around and have a lot of good ideas they come back with, and then there's one in the kitchen and has to try to balance everything. But what I heard from Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen, was also a recognition of the cooperation we had in the spring, and I would also like to sign for that for the other way; but there was also a concern that the government is now busy enough with getting the Danish economy continued on course. I can reassure you that we are. What I did not hear so much about was what the Left itself will offer, and I understand that you will come forward with your draft budget at a later date, and that is the way it is. However, when you were asked directly whether you agreed that we should use the budgetary framework to boost the Danish economy, i.e. a deficit of 0.5%. I did not get a clear answer from the Left on my block next year, and it is quite fundamental whether one is prepared to go down that road together in order to be able to hold hands under jobs, under companies, under Denmark or not. So I hope, if not today, that very soon we can get an answer from the Left on it. Otherwise, what is most lacking is a criticism of the government that, on the one hand, we are told, we are not doing enough to boost the economy and, on the other hand, we are spending too much money. I think you have to choose what it is you think the criticism should be, because otherwise, to stay in children's literature, I got to think of something when I heard Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen, Peter Pooh. There is a fantastic scene in Peter Pooh, where Peter Pooh and Piglet are out walking in the Hundred Meter Forest, and then they lose direction along the way. Piglet gets a little nervous and asks Peter Pooh if he thinks they're lost, to which Peter Pooh says: I don't quite know where we are or where we're going, but we're shooting a good speed. That picture came out when I heard the Left's criticism. You shoot a little in all directions and hope there's a good hurry. But there's not really a head and tail on things. I hope there will be, and I hope that we can continue to work well together to get Denmark through the crisis in the best possible way. In any case, we are prepared to do so by the government, but that requires, as Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen so correctly said it, two to a tango. Yes, it may actually require even more. Hopefully, this will require a broad effort in the Danish Parliament. The Danish People's Party cannot say that it rained praises down on the government, but there were also bright points seen with the eyes of a finance minister. I understood it that way, sir. René Christensen that the government should do more on the green agenda, and I am quite happy to hear that. It has to be said that the Danish People's Party has made a journey of the greater on this issue, from the fact that a little over a year ago it was thought that the debate had been too much marked by climate freaks, to the idea that the government should now focus more on the green. We would very much like to focus on the green, and that is one of the discussions we have had in this Chamber today. Do we think that this is one of the most important tasks we have to deal with? To that is the answer: Yes, we do. Because even if we have a corona crisis that is so much on the agenda and in our resolutions, we also have a climate crisis which, once the corona crisis is behind us, will unfortunately still remain with us; a climate crisis which requires action. And that's why it's so crucial that this Parliament has decided broadly and jointly on the 70-percent target in 2030 that we have made the Climate Act with each other, that before we went on summer holidays, we have made important agreements on climate change in relation to waste, in relation to industry, in relation to energy, and that we will also enter into new negotiations in the near future, and that we will also have to look at a green tax reform. In addition, in this financial law, in the field of research, we are putting a lot, very strongly in relation to green research, because we need to become smarter, get new knowledge, get new technologies, so that we can meet the challenge we face with climate change. Moreover, we are also in favour of development aid and target it more towards climate challenges, and in relation to biodiversity, we have also included things in the Finance Act. Does this mean that we have solved the whole green challenge? No, it doesn't. But when you compare it with the fact that we clearly say that the government reserve, the war fund, which we have set up with the 9.2 billion. kr., we would also very much like to see in a green context and that there is a negotiating reserve of 1.5 billion. kr., which can also be used if the parties so wish, on among other things. Green initiatives, I think we are actually moving in a good direction. Sir. René Christensen also touched on the issue of the elderly, a very, very important issue, and I agree with him. René Christensen's words that when it comes to our efforts for the elderly, and I think that I am quoting fairly precisely, it is not only a question of money, but it is also a question of money, and that is true. Because when we see what has been unhappy and heartbreakingly revealed in television broadcasts and in other ways, it is not only about money, it is also about human vision, it is about how to lead, it is about a culture. But it is clear that, fortunately, when there are more older and more children in the years to come, it also matters how much money has been set aside to provide proper care and care for our children and the elderly. And that is why, in addition to what we have proposed in this Finance Act, it is so that it is so and I am also pleased that Mr. René Christensen signed for it. I wish mr. René Christensen has been a target for the Danish People's Party under the previous You couldn't do that back then. I hope that sometime in the future it will be possible to do so. As far as the Radical Left is concerned, it is clear that, when it is the Radical Left in the best sense of the word, it is not only Harry Potter; it is not only the Danish discussion that we are in the longer term and where it really sums up very well the message from the Radicals, i.e. what was quoted Dumbledore for, namely that the easiest thing is not always the right thing. And if there is something we have experienced in this time, it is, of course, that we have had to make tough decisions, really difficult decisions, priorities, and we will also have to do so in the years to come. Therefore, the task will be, even if it is not easy, to ensure that we get through the climate crisis, that we get through Corona well and that we also take good care of our welfare, and that we do it in a way that will ensure the future of this country. We may disagree on some of the tools to get there, but I think we are very much in agreement on the direction. And that is why, of course, I would also like to acknowledge the cooperation we have had in this government's lifetime, but indeed also in relation to the tasks I hope we can jointly resolve in the future. This applies not least to the green challenge of how we can invest in green technology, in green jobs, in green development for the benefit of Denmark, but also to the benefit of setting an example that we hope will reach beyond the country's borders. I know that both of us are concerned, and I think we have already made important decisions. Another party with which we have also worked very well is SF. And, as has been said, we must also get out of the crisis more fairly. For what Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen also mentioned was that the last time we were in a crisis similar to the one we are in now, namely the financial crisis, we did not get out of what led to the fact that the bill was very much sent to those who had the least. And I just want to say that this is not the way we intend to resolve the crisis as a social democratic government, and I hear that is not the way the SF will do it either. I would also like to thank you for pointing out from the SF that it is nice when even very liberal think tanks begin to recognise that there is actually a majority in the Danish Parliament who will drop the money when more children and older people arrive. It is for me to see one of the most important achievements that we have made as a new government in cooperation with the parties that have pointed to us that we actually provide an opportunity to secure the economy. Back to the starting point: it does not solve all the problems in itself, but it is a very important prerequisite for dealing with it. Sir. Rune Lund also mentioned that it is important that we keep a fair direction for Danish society, among other things. that we have a tax administration that works so that we can help to ensure that money comes into the box and that people can have a certainty that the tax to be paid, including the one that those with the very, very expensive lawyers and accountants have to pay, will also be in the box. And it is also for me to see an important message, that whether it is high or low, we must each contribute what we need to do. And there must be no blunders and criminals out there who have easy access to getting the trunk right into the treasury. This is an enormously large task. We have a huge, huge challenge to make the tax administration work as we would like, but it is a shared responsibility that we also put money out of this finance bill for that task, because it is so important and because it is part of what we are in Denmark that we have a well-functioning tax administration that can contribute to a well-functioning welfare society where what is going on is fair and proper. And that is the whole starting point for the community called Denmark. Thank you, too, to the Conservative People's Party, not only for a greeting from the Rambilee, but even more so for taking responsibility, both for the climate agenda and also for aid packages. And I heard Mr. Marcus Knuth if we put aside the rather highly-voted rhetoric for a moment... go into a path that says that you also want to take an active part in the budget negotiations; you want to know, of course, what the money is to be used for, but you are prepared to take responsibility. I would like to sign for this and look forward to the discussions on how we can ensure a strong Danish business community and a green transition. In relation to New Citizens, it is always a pleasure to hear Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, not because we agree on so much that we are not usually but because one is confirmed in that there are differences in Danish politics and that there is a clear approach to things. I would also just like to say to New Citizens that, in several contexts of the year that have passed, we have had very fine negotiations; we have done things together. And there have also been times when new citizens have said: we are too far apart. That's fair enough. But it is, in a sense, liberating to have a party here where the answer to the challenges, when there are good times, is tax relief, and when there are bad times, it is also tax relief. And that way, there's a constant one you're never wrong about. So whether you want to adjust your compass to it or not, there is certainly not a great risk that you are wrong about each other. Then Mr. Ole Birk Olesen would like to speak reform today. First of all, I would like to say that I share the view that a number of reforms have been made before this government and before this Parliament, which has helped to lay the foundations for the economy we are facing and which, by its very nature, has also given us the muscles we have had at our disposal when the corona hit. However, I believe that there is a very different approach to what reforms we need to do in the future. I would very much like to be involved in second-generation reforms where, among other things, we are involved. We are getting more immigrants into the labour market, where we are educating the 50,000 young people who are neither in work nor in education and where we are looking at sick leave to just take three examples of something where we can make the next generations of reforms. So for me, it is not a question of whether you want to reform, but what kind of reforms you want to reform whether it should be classic labour supply reforms that you have done in the past or whether there might be some new and wiser grip you can use. But I'm sure we'll have a good discussion about that. Then there is the alternative to Mr. Torsten Gejl, who had liked to see that there had been more to the green. I hope that at the negotiating table we can all get down to the fact that there is actually a lot of green in this Finance Act and respect for, as Mr. Torsten Gejl himself also said that when you have more than 50 rapporteurs, there may not be time to look at every detail. But that does not change the fact that I hear the alternative come up with a desire to have a greener direction than the government has set, and we must talk about that with each other. Finally, I would also like to thank Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen for her excellent cooperation on the very, very important challenges facing Greenland's society, not least in relation to children and the judiciary. This is an example of the fact that we have jointly been able to carry out the task, not that Denmark should enter where there should be no room, namely in relation to the things that have been taken home, but that we do so where it is possible for us to work together. However, I would also like to say that the government is looking forward to negotiations with Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen in connection with this financial law on further initiatives in relation to Greenland. And I would like to say the same to Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam also thank you for a very good cooperation, where we have also seen from here a burning will to do something good for Greenlandic society in close cooperation with the Danish Government and the Danish Parliament. In conclusion, of course, I should also like to thank Mr Seligman. Sjúrður Skaale, who even went so far as to say that he brought money to the finance minister, and that is almost the most unique thing to experience in my job. I wonder if we will also have an opportunity to discuss how we can make some further good things for the Faroe Islands, both with Mr. Sjúrður Skaale and Mr. Mr Sjúrður Skaale's colleague from the Faroe Islands. Sir. Minister, I'm about to knock on the window! ) That's good. I'll say thank you so far so there won't be any trouble at the window!
ParlaMint-DK_20200908193120	We have the Minister for Finance another hour to answer questions. And that hour seems to be quite a nice one, there is at least a nice long line of speeches, and of course we will start with the general rapporteurs and in the order of parties, and that is why I shall give the floor to Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908193141	Thank you for that and thank you for the comments made by the Minister for Finance and also for the many lines that have been given. I think you should start by signing with a Peter Pooh quote, just like setting the agenda. Peter Pooh says, Promise me that you will always remember this: You are bolder than you think, stronger than you look, and wiser than you know. That is probably the closest thing I come to commending the Minister for Finance, so we will stop doing so here, but it is also in recognition of the fact that we have made a large number of agreements. Having said that, today there has also been an exciting debate, namely on the question of the so-called labour supply and the understanding paper that the government has produced with the support parties that it has. There are like two interpretations of how to understand the supply of work. There is, I think, a very clear definition, which the Radical Left describes very well by the rapporteur, Mr Sofie Carsten Nielsen, and then there is, it might be said, a little more unorthodox definition by the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten. Rune Lund. Therefore, it would perhaps now be interesting to hear how the Minister of Finance perceives the paper of understanding and the question of what, if you get a smaller job offer by means of some political initiatives you take, you should do it afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908193310	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908193311	First of all, I would like to thank you for your kind words. Although they were borrowed from Peter Pooh, I perceived them as being sincerely well-meaning. I'll take that to my heart with pleasure. As far as the understanding paper is concerned, I should like to say what it says. There are a lot of sensible things to say, but in relation to what I think Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen's particular interest, states under point d of the section that initiatives which may reduce employment are matched by other but not necessarily simultaneous measures which at least increase employment accordingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908193356	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908193357	Thanks for that reading. But how is that supposed to be understood? So is it over time that you have to deliver on it? If you make a political agreement, for example. If we are to reduce the supply of labour by, let us say, 10,000, when should we then, if we may say so, restore what has happened? Is it in the short run, is it over the next 2-3 months, is it in the financial year that we have now, or is it in the next 3-4 years? I'm afraid that doesn't say much about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908193432	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908193433	No, that is, what I said a moment ago is that the initiatives which had to reduce employment are matched by other measures, but not necessarily simultaneous ones, which at least increase employment accordingly. In other words, at an appropriate time, after decisions have been taken which reduce employment, some other decisions have to be taken which at least provide as much employment with other instruments. That's how it's supposed to be understood.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908193508	Then it's mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908193513	Thank you. I'm not so well versed in children's books anymore, as I have big children, but I do remember some of the children's books. Among other things, there were: Heffalump, and what happened? Peter Pooh went out into the woods and was so afraid of everything that happened, so he was completely irrational in relation to the decisions he made. And when I heard the Minister's speech, I remembered it because the Minister said that we are in a corona crisis, that we are in a climate crisis, that is, that it is all a crisis. This was also the last time we had a social democratic government. At that time it was just Bjarne Corydon who was Minister of Finance, but there it was also in the sign of the crisis and that we therefore had to take these decisions. And that will be the case again, because there is so much we would like to do, but we cannot do so because there is a crisis, and the crisis will probably not stop immediately; there will be a lot of pressure on that. That is why I would like to ask a question, which is purely political. When you look at it and, for example, when you look at it. In the case of rural areas, you can see that everything called infrastructure has been removed which could make Denmark more coherent. The broadband pool has been removed and that is 100 million. kr., we're talking about. Everything that could strengthen rural areas has been removed. Is it because of the crisis, or is it the expression of a political attitude?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908193623	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908193624	First of all, I would like to say that I think it is a little special that Mr. René Christensen believes that the crisis is affecting because there is a social democratic government. I think that whatever government had been in place, the corona crisis would have been a huge task. And I hope that this government has demonstrated in cooperation with all the good forces and the whole Danish community that we can handle that. We are deeply concerned that development is taking place in all parts of Denmark. In fact, this is also one of the reasons why we have made major agreements with both municipalities and regions that allow the economy to develop, not only in the large cities but also elsewhere in the country, and that we have made a compensation agreement with parties that went in and took responsibility for making a distribution from city to country. Unfortunately, the Danish People's Party did not take responsibility for that agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908193724	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908193725	But the Minister does not answer, because what is it that the municipalities want? They actually want to fund themselves. But can they do so if the citizens cannot get back and forth? Can they do so if citizens cannot access the Internet because they are shutting down the broadband pool? So we are talking about over 100,000 homes that today do not have access to broadband, and yet the government is saying: that pool we are looping. It doesn't add up. This leads to stagnation, which means that we have to send even more money to the province, because that way the province cannot become more skilled and cannot make any more money. That is the wrong way to go, which is why I ask once again: is it the fault of the crisis that they say to the province that they do not get infrastructure or the Internet? Or is it the expression of a political opinion that you would rather send money to the province than that they should be allowed to finance themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908193816	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908193817	First of all, I have not heard anyone say anywhere in Denmark that we have no plans to take initiatives in relation to infrastructure. The government has announced that we will, of course, make our proposals for an infrastructure plan. When we do so, there will be a good opportunity to discuss it with the parties of the Folketing, and there we will be deeply concerned about what is happening outside the big cities; we will also be concerned about what is happening in the big cities. When we propose a police reform right now, when we move the police out locally, it is precisely because we want to support a development that is not only in the big cities but also in the rest of Denmark. When we are deeply concerned about getting educational institutions around the country that they can both stay there, but that there can also be more people, it is because it is one of the most important things you can do in relation to a local community. So this is an agenda that we are so concerned with, and so I have to say that I do not recognize that picture, Mr President. René Christensen is trying to draw.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908193918	Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908193918-2	Thank you. And thank you for all the good words.Now the Minister of Finance himself took the Rasmus Klump analogy on, so we have to stay in it, because the fact that it's hard to be a finance minister and have to stand with the pancakes all the time, and that somebody keeps coming and eating them, maybe I think it's just thick enough in this financial act. If you're going to stay in the analogy, the Minister of Finance ate all the pancakes himself before some guests have been invited to the table. Minister of Finance I wish it were so). After all, the Socialists have used the room for manoeuvre on their own proposals before they have even been invited. That is why I am concerned about what I also asked the Socialist rapporteur about that makes me a little worried about how this is related to the green ambitions for which there are words. Is there going to be an economic plan? Is the economic plan a balance projection, as the Socialist rapporteur said?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908194035	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908194036	I think that with this financial law we are showing the way for how to deal with Denmark in a time of crisis, namely coronatide. This is the most important plan we can put forward right now, namely how we get Denmark best through the crisis. It follows on from the initiatives we have taken before the summer holidays, among other things. with the Radical Left as a strong and constructive partner. This also applies to the green agenda. I don't recognize the image that we in the government ate all the pancakes ourselves, even though some of us here in the coronatide may have added a few more kilos. A great deal remains to be negotiated, but I recognise that this year there is less money for what could be called negotiations on all kinds of other initiatives than last year. I do not think that is so strange when we have one crucial challenge, namely to get us through the corona crisis, while at the same time tackling the green challenge and taking good care of our welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908194144	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908194144-2	But that did not answer the question. So now I'm just asking specifically: is there anything other than this balance projection that gives a picture of the government's ambitions for what you want with the Danish economy up to 2025?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908194206	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908194207	After all, we have an understanding with each other in the understanding paper, and it is perhaps very good in this context too to read out what we were handing each other over: the assumption for a strong welfare society is that a responsible and fair economic policy is being pursued. The overall balance of economic policy must therefore be fair and contribute to combating inequality and poverty. • But we must also ensure that there is a balance in the Danish economy in 2025 and 2030. And what is, after all, a very, very important part of the financial bill that we have put forward is that, although we are going out and lending in this situation, because it is quite extraordinary what we are facing, it is not a persistent new level of expenditure that we have set. We will come back in balance in Danish economy in 2025, just as we have agreed with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908194258	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908194259	Thanks for the speech and the nice words. I don't have any stories from Peter Pooh land, so I'm gonna stay away from them. But seriously: one of the things that the SF has said about this draft budget is that we need to see more than signals: a green leadership on the part of the government. In the paper of understanding, which has been made with us, the government has created the world's most ambitious climate objective, and it really takes something to live up to it. I also think that's why it was a very mixed one, to say the little diplomatic response to the Eldrupkommission's car recommendations. And the bar is set extremely high. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister for Finance whether he does not understand that we are some who need to see clearer signals than the fact that there are parallel negotiations going on. Before the corona crisis, we could see that there was a danger of overheating. That is not the problem now, for example. should trigger the green investment earlier than otherwise planned...
ParlaMint-DK_20200908194424	Then it's the finance minister, so we can get as many on as possible in the hour there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908194428	I am pleased that the SF is deeply concerned about delivering on the 70-percent target. So is the government. We have made an agreement with each other on this with the understanding paper. By the way, we have also created a climate law with other parties that have this as its clear starting point and objective, and we must deliver on this together. What we on the part of the government are saying is that there are initiatives in the draft budget that we have put forward that will help with it, but we are also saying that although the Finance Act and I can say that as Minister of Finance is a very, very important part of government policy, it is not the only part of government policy. You also have to see it in relation to the processes that come about about the climate. We made a very important agreement on the Climate Act just up to the turn of the year last year, and we made an agreement just before the summer on waste, on energy and in relation to industry. And we need to start a green tax reform. There is plenty of green on the agenda, and I look forward to doing that with SF and other parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908194540	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908194542	What we are worried about is giving the government a blank cheque of 9.2 billion. kr., isn't that you can spend money on a lot of good things, also to mitigate the consequences of corona. It is not because we will not be paying for a vaccine if we are lucky enough to get it as soon as possible. But it is to say that we have to color everything that can be colored at all, green. And when the government itself says that one of the most important things at all is to hold hands under Danish jobs, then we say: let us use that money now targeted and earmark them to fix two problems, namely unemployment and the green transition, in one fell swoop.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908194623	Then it's the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908194623-2	This government is deeply concerned about combating unemployment and also about combating climate change, and to the extent that we can use the 9.2 billion. kr. in a way that stimulates the Danish economy and ensures the green transition, we are very much in favour of it. I have also said this so many times that I hope that it will now start to take root in those parties which hopefully will take responsibility. I am also just saying that there may be parts of Danish business that we also need to support, which are not necessarily in green technology, but which also have important jobs for the benefit of Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908194708	Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908194711	When you look at the financial bill, there is also, in addition to the so-called war fund, what you might call two government reserves, and when you count all that together, it gives in the vicinity of 10.5 billion. kr. In the face of this, there is what the government believes should be the negotiating reserve of 1.5 billion. kr. Now Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen said that the government had eaten all the pancakes itself. That's right, but it's kind of worse. I understand that the Minister for Finance believes that the Minister for Finance can understand how Rasmus Klump's mother feels. But besides having eaten the pancakes, she has also hidden virtually all the pancakes in the closet so there will be nothing for those who come home from the trip. Perhaps the Minister of Finance can consecrate us to what Rasmus Klump's mother has thought it would be fair in that every time you give one pancake to all those who came home from the trip, you save approx. Ten pancakes in the closet, of course, after eating most of the pancakes themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908194826	The finance minister's gonna give you a pancake.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908194828	I would say that now the Rasmus Klump image is beginning to approach a place where you have to be careful whether it keeps all the way home. But if you imagined that Rasmus Klump's mother knew that in addition to Rasmus Klump and his vicious friends came to visit and they could eat a lot of pancakes, there actually came some others who had been out for a long time and who were also hungry. Then it might be a good idea that Rasmus Klump's mother had made sure that there were just some pancakes in the fridge you could warm when they came. If we are to be serious for a moment now: when we want to have reserves or a war box out of the ordinary this year, and that is what it is, it is because we are in a very unusual situation. This is not a question of whether it is me as Finance Minister or who is going to have some special box now. It is a question of this country being prepared to tackle the worst crisis we have faced since the Second World War, both in terms of what can happen economically and what can happen in terms of health, and I think that as a finance minister is sensible, and I really hope Rasmus Klump's mother would think so if she were to interfere in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908194944	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908194944-2	However, what is so important to us is that the billions come out to work and that we invest our way out of the crisis, both in the recovery of welfare, jobs in the bourgeois welfare, but also, of course, in green jobs. And if we stay in the Rasmus Klump terminology, it may happen that while the pancakes are in the closet, they get boring and cold, and then they don't get the same effect as if they had been served immediately, where they would have done more good. Is that a picture that the Minister of Finance can understand?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908195021	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908195022	Yes, and that is why I also hope that Rasmus Klump's mother is so good a housewife that she has invested not only in a refrigerator, but maybe also as one where I come from in Jutland, at least very much cares about a freezer, because if she puts the pancakes in the freezer, they can be thawed at a later time and still be fresh and good if there is more need for them later in the season. Instead of Rasmus' lump and his friends eating it all and filling their stomachs at once, they say it might be that they were hungry next week and the week after or next year too. So the idea of this is to have a war chest, so we can take action when the problem arises when the need is greatest when the effect is most effective.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908195115	I just couldn't remember if Mr. Knox... Rune Lund had had two comments, but he did. I'm wondering if we could get the best airtime in Ramashang if it goes on like this. There could be an opportunity for that. I shall now give the floor to Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908195132	Thank you. As things stand, I should perhaps give the Minister of Finance a message of greeting from the Rambilee, but the reality is that I am not very good at animal sounds, and if I try to come up with a truce, we risk being confused with a voice of consent, and we cannot have that in this Chamber. So I will go straight to the question: I do not feel I have received much answers as to what the direction is for this so-called war fund. Can we at least get a guarantee that money will be spent on something that creates economic growth, something that creates jobs, something that does not just go to new transfer incomes, and something that does not just make an already very, very large public sector even bigger?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908195217	Then it's the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908195218	I would actually like to give some of my time to Mr. Marcus Knuth could exercise his audio register, but I will instead go directly to answer the question. What we want with the war box of the 9.2 billion. kr., is two things. Firstly, that we can keep unemployment down and, on the other hand, keep Danish companies up. This means that if, for example, we see a crisis for Danish exports, we have some gunpowder in the chamber so that we can help Danish companies. I think the Conservative People's Party would also think that was a good idea. This is also one of the reasons why we are in a close dialogue with business around restart teams and other things, so that we can find out with them where we can best take action. That's one part. The second part is that if, for example, we do not have the right to vote in local elections, we do not have the right to vote in local elections. If it comes, it is also very sensible that the money should be in the account. I hope the Conservative People's Party will agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908195325	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908195327	Thank you. I would say that is one of the most uplifting answers I have heard of that question. For what makes us Conservatives nervous is when there is a move such as the Arne initiative that pulls 9 000 people out of work and costs billions and when you raise the tax. After all, it is all parts that are not healthy for the Danish economy, and that is why we are worried. But if this is actually something that creates jobs and not just goes down the road that says that now the public sector needs to be even bigger, then I would actually like to acknowledge that this is the best answer I have received so far from the Minister for Finance, and I hope that is the direction in which we can continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908195407	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908195409	Thank you. I welcome the receipt from the Conservative People's Party, because that is exactly what this proposal is all about. It is about showing something as old-fashioned as due diligence and saying: We can see in the crystal ball that there may be some major difficulties, for example for Danish export companies; let us drop some money so that we are ready to help them if needed. It helps to create jobs, to keep unemployment down, to hold hands under companies. And then we will probably not agree that it is a good idea to ensure that people who have been on the labour market for a very long time and who have been working and dragged can retire a little earlier. We have different views on this. In the government we are very pleased with the proposal we have put forward, and of course we hope to get a majority for this in the Folketing; we are working on that with determination.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908195459	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908195501	I thank you for the words about the clarity of new citizens in Danish politics. I appreciate those. I would also like to thank you for the words that we are doing constructively. It is very important to us that we do so. Then we can also come up with a helping hand, because instead of going out and raising taxes and debts, let's find the money within this 1,200 billion. kr. that we have to do well with. Because we're spending $33 billion. kr. I would like to say to the Minister of Finance that he is going to invite us to negotiations for a few months, and then we will be able to find together the billions that we need and that we want to do well with. Then we are free to tell the Danes that you have to pay for what you have to do. We can find money on the cost of non-western immigration instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908195607	Then it's the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908195608	What we have seen here during the corona crisis is that the entire Danish society takes responsibility for getting us through a very difficult time in the best possible way. This is true of what we invest on behalf of the Danish Parliament and the government on behalf of the state, it is true of municipalities and regions, it is true of our business community, it is true of employees, it is true of all parts. It is a spirit that the government intends to continue. At the same time, we also say that one of the things we are further deeply concerned about is getting more people into work, and not least that there are many people with a refugee or immigrant background who are outside the Danish labour market. If we can get them into the Danish labour market, it is incredibly important, both in relation to having people in work instead of in idleness, but also in relation to our economy, in relation to our integration. So, of course, we would like to listen to all the good ideas on that. We have our own, and then we have to see what the various parties are bidding with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908195717	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908195719	It sounds like the story that changing governments have had for the last 30 years, that is to say that we must now get them into the labour market. This has not yet happened to a satisfactory extent. That is why I say that if we can now make investments, just as we do when we invest money in employment, then we will include sums, we will save on it when they get into employment. In the same way, for the first time in the history of Denmark, we could demand that these costs of non-Western immigration should be reduced; they should therefore decrease. And what the cost is going to fall, we can use for these measures. We would commit ourselves to actually solving this task so that it doesn't just become another christiansborgsnik talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908195801	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908195802	This government has no ambition to make christiansborgsnik talk. This government has an ambition to solve problems. And one of the major challenges we face in Danish society is that there are too few people with refugee and immigrant backgrounds in work. This is a major problem in terms of integration. It is also something that, of course, affects our economy. When people go out of employment, we can make sure that someone else gets into employment. It's absolutely central to this government. And, yes, if you look back 30 years, you've made a lot of mistakes. We are going to do things in a new and better way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908195849	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908195851	Thank you. The Minister of Finance does not want to make reforms that increase employment and prosperity in Denmark if it is reforms that the Minister of Finance considers to be the first generation. Now I do not know whether what I am proposing here is the first, second or third generation. I do not know that terminology and it does not exist in the textbooks; it is so social democratic language. But what I want to hear from the Minister for Finance is that figures have just come from the Minister for Finance's colleague, the Minister for Taxation, who says that if you lower corporate tax from 22 per cent. to 19 per cent, not only will the companies benefit from it, also all Danes will benefit from it and will be 0.6 per cent. richer. Whether you belong to the 10%. The poorest in this country or the 10%. The richest, you'll be 0.6%. richer if corporate tax is reduced by 3 percentage points. Is this an increase in income, as the Minister of Finance under the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908195950	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908195951	I know that the Liberal Alliance and the rapporteur think that the answer to any challenge is to give tax relief. I also believe that it was even set up 23 cups in the Liberal Alliance's group room to mark the tax cuts that had been found under the previous government, where there was co-responsibility. This is not about whether or not Danes have a tax relief; this is about how we spend the money wisely and best. Right now, Denmark is facing a huge crisis, economic and health-related, that is, the corona crisis, which we are spending every effort to pull out of wisely. Then, of course, the Liberal Alliance can say that the only answer to that challenge is to give great tax concessions to the right and left. That is not what will be our starting point. What we have done in this crisis, on the other hand, is to do so that a number of companies have now been given the opportunity to postpone payment of taxes during a period where they are most under pressure. And we have done so because, in the specific situation, it was a good tool to use.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908200110	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908200110-2	No, there's something the Minister of Finance has misunderstood. It is not because the Danes here get a tax relief that they get richer. In other words, companies get a reduction in corporation tax, which leads to more investment in production in Denmark. The additional investment in production in Denmark leads to higher hourly wages, and higher hourly wages also lead to people on transfer income getting higher transfer income. And the result is that everyone gets 0.6%. richer, because Denmark simply becomes a richer society with higher incomes... not because people get a tax relief. I would just like to ask: is this a generational reform that the Minister of Finance can accept, or does the Minister of Finance not want the Danes to become, for example, a generational reform? 0,6% more prosperous?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908200156	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908200157	I have now fully understood what the proposal was about, but I also understood from the rapporteur that the tax relief that would then be granted there would benefit others by other means, and that is what I was talking about. When I talk about second-generation reforms, it is, among other things, the case. to get more of the 50,000 young people today who are not getting an education or work to work, to get more people with refugee and immigrant background to work, to have their sick leave brought down to take some examples. It is also a wise way of creating wealth and growth for the benefit of Danish society, and it also has a very good effect in terms of integrating refugees and immigrants and in relation to our young people, namely that they come out and get a job or an education. It is also something that has a huge impact on their lives personally.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908200249	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908200249-2	Thank you. There is something in the logic of the Minister of Finance that I cannot really understand. I am sure that the Minister for Finance is concerned about the environment, concerned about climate and nature, and not only about the fact that we have difficulty meeting our reduction targets, but probably also that we are the country in the world that is most covered by agriculture and has so incredibly little diversity in nature. And now you have borrowed money for a war fund, so that challenge is covered. Why, then, is it that we do not give priority to those things that are extremely important and that we were doing and that lie ahead of us in the climate negotiations that we are going to have, and not also give money to them? Have you borrowed too little, or what's wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908200332	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908200333	No, I don't think we've borrowed too little. I think we are proposing to borrow what is sensible and responsible for getting Denmark through the crisis best. At the same time, we have taken a number of green decisions, even before the summer holidays, both in relation to climate legislation and initiatives to reduce CO2 We also have a broad circle of parties, including Mr. Torsten Gejl's own party, made arrangements for us to make a green tax reform. Towards New Year there will be further initiatives to place the green agenda at the heart of Danish politics and the decisions we take here in the Danish Parliament. So I'm just gonna be happy that Mr. Torsten Gejl and the Alternative, with all their energy, throw themselves into the green agenda. We share the objective, but we also see it in the context of what is otherwise a challenge right now, among other things. that we must make the best possible use of the Corona crisis and that, moreover, we must also take good care of our welfare society. In fact, we believe that, if we do this wisely, we can handle all three things. Then, on the other hand, there are some other things that we have to say have to wait some time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908200458	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908200459	Yes, we engage in trying to resolve the climate crisis. What we cannot understand is the connection with the fact that we can borrow almost 10 billion. kr. to a war box. The Corona crisis is, of course, a huge crisis, but we are turning, at the same time as it is gone, to a new crisis which is, albeit even greater. We have a great credit rating in the world, we could borrow 100 billion. kr. Why can't we borrow 10 billion? kr. to do what seems necessary in order to achieve the reduction target, which is likely to be 80%. instead of 70%.?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908200540	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908200541	What we have agreed with each other is the 70% reduction target. We are fully committed to this, and we are working with the Danish Parliament to deliver on this by 2030, and of course we will also jointly find the economy for this. I also have to say that we have a very strong Danish economy. We had that before the corona hit, and we still have that, but there are also limits to how much we can continue to borrow and borrow without at some point also putting ourselves in what interest we have to pay for the loans we are taking. That's one part. The second part is that we have the budget law, which limits the amount of deficit we can have in a given year. We are using that framework to the full, so there is no more money we can borrow in that system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908200630	Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908200632	Thank you for your cooperation during the year. I would also like to say that in relation to the things we have been through, with the area of justice for Greenland, with the Danish responsibilities for Greenland, I very much welcome it. These are not the changes we have seen over many years. This is the kind of change we have been fighting for for 50 years, plus that as a parliamentarian we have always had 50 rapporteurs. So I would also like to thank you very much for your good cooperation on this matter. My question is a little more in the direction of this corona crisis, which I can imagine, especially in the future, could be a worldwide crisis. What is Greenland's position through the Danish Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908200728	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908200729	I would also like to sign Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam for a really good cooperation and for a great work for Greenland in the Danish Parliament. We, the rapporteur and I, like the negotiations I had with the other Greenlandic member of the Folketing and the two Faroese members, negotiated concrete initiatives for the benefit of Greenland and the Faroe Islands in last year's Finance Act. Similarly, negotiations will be convened in this year's financial law process, because although we have other great things to deal with, we as a government are, of course, also fully aware of the responsibility we have in relation to Greenland and the Faroe Islands. Because it is quite true, as we are told, that this is something that affects not only the Danish part of the kingdom community, but also the Greenlandic part of the kingdom community and the Faroese part of the kingdom community. It is important that we show our community, our solidarity and our unity.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908200838	Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam does not wish to speak for her second brief remark. Instead, I give the floor to Mrs Sophie Løhde from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908200846	Thank you. It is a little interesting to hear, when you follow the debate between the Minister for Finance and the parliamentary basis, that it is all about spending even more money or borrowing even more money. There is nothing about how we create some growth and employment in this society, which means that more of the people who have lost their jobs also have a job to stand up to and that we can ensure that we not only keep cutting the cake into even smaller pieces, but are actually working to make it bigger so we can afford to invest in our welfare and in our green conversion. I think, however, that the Minister for Finance said a good thing in his speech, namely that precisely combating unemployment is the real challenge from the point of view of the government. That is why I really just want to hear the Minister for Finance say how many jobs and jobs will come out of the tax increases that the government has in the pipeline. How many jobs are going to get out of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908200947	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908200947-2	I do not think I will stand here and promise how many jobs come out of tax increases. I can say that the economic policy put forward by the government, also in connection with this financial law, will have an effect on employment of 46 000 next year. That's a lot of people. Because we are in a very, very difficult situation with corona, and I welcome the fact that, like the government, the Left is concerned about combating unemployment. This is not done in words alone; it is done in concrete actions. This is also done by investing in research and development. The starting point is that the research appropriations are falling when the budget is falling, because they follow bnp, but there we have chosen from this government to say that we are making sure that there are still strong research appropriations, and we place a special focus on green research, because it is precisely one of the places where Denmark is right, really good at creating jobs and growth, and we hope that the Left will support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908201055	Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908201056	The economic policy put forward by the government can of course be read in the Economic Statement, and it shows in black and white that it is a Denmark that is becoming poorer and that it is a Denmark where more will lose their jobs, and it is even before the government's so-called early retirement is recognised, which means that another 10,000 will be withdrawn from the labour market. Next year you will spend 2 billion. kr. from the room for manoeuvre, which cannot therefore be used for cancer treatment in Denmark or invested in the green transition. This has nothing to do with the government's financial bill, and that is why I ask: how many jobs will come out of the tax increases, tax increases that the government has in the pipeline? How many come out of them? Because I think there are many companies who think it is a strange thing that, in a historic crisis, the government's response to them is that now they have to see that there are more burdens on business with fewer jobs. It is in stark contrast to saying that we want to combat unemployment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908201210	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908201211	I think we just have to deal with reality. This government is pursuing a policy that has an effect on 46,000 people in employment. In addition, we have among other things: in relation to research and development proposed things that can help hold hands under Danish jobs. Together with other parties, we have set in motion a number of initiatives, and that is a good thing, but we must move forward, and that is why we have the reserve of 9.2 billion. kr., which also contributes to the figure of 46,000. So it's not like it's just something backwards. What we are doing is also forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908201251	Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908201252	Thank you. This has been an interesting debate today. It is true, as several of my colleagues have said, that the Minister for Finance ate all the pancakes himself, and there are only the bread crumbs left after Hans and Grethe. That is why I would like to hear the Finance Minister about the area of the elderly, because it is true that not only is the elderly area being dealt with in the Danish People's Party, we want an old people's law, where we have the right to care, where we have the rock card scheme, which currently operates through the block subsidy, and that we have the right to set minimum standards for older people. Now, of course, we know that the government is bringing the child's law, and that is why I want to hear from the government whether they are also willing to make an old law, so that things can simply be written into an old law, giving older people the right to self-determination, so that they have the right to choose for themselves what they want and the right to care. It should be a matter of course, but unfortunately we have seen that this is not the case. So where is the Minister of Finance there and will the Minister of Finance be involved in making an old-age law?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908201405	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908201406	I and the government are so preoccupied with creating a good framework, a dignified framework with caring and neighborly love for our elders. In fact, I think all the parties in the Folketing are. I would also like to sign that the Danish People's Party is also fighting that battle in many contexts. We then believe that the very best way we can help to create this is to ensure that in the municipalities that have to provide care and care and in the health services, which are also an important part of it, we actually get funding that comes with when, fortunately, there are more elderly people. You can pass all the laws you want in the world, but if you haven't given the possibility in the real world that our nurses or our staff out in our elderly care have a chance to deliver what we're talking about we want them to, then it's no use. So in relation to the law on the elderly and other matters, I think it is good if there is a dialogue with the Minister for the Elderly about what action to take, but from the point of view of a finance minister it is absolutely important that we also have the money at our disposal, and that is why we have made some significant improvements to the municipalities and regions over the last two years in the agreements we have made with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908201528	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908201528-2	When the Minister of Finance keeps saying that these significant advances have been made, I would like to ask how many of the 98 municipalities have raised the level of service after the government's significant boost. I do not think the Minister for Finance can answer that question. It would be interesting to get an answer because it is also where you in the municipality, you can say, set the level of what you provide of service in the municipality. But should I just understand the Minister of Finance that you do not want to be involved in making an old law, giving older people more rights to have a dignified care and the right to self-determination through the clipboard system, but that you want to make a child's law? I just need to understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908201608	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908201609	You have to understand that I urge you to take the ideas that the Danish People's Party has here with you to the Minister for the Elderly. But I am also saying here that a prerequisite for good ideas and good ideas to become reality is that more money comes with when more older ones arrive. And this government, unlike the previous government, has done so in the municipal and regional agreements made last year and this year. This, of course, has an impact on the municipalities when it comes to budgeting, and there are also a great many mayors who have been very clear in the spit that it has been helpful to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908201652	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908201653	Since the summer holidays, the government has proposed a sea of new tax increases. If, at the same time, the government stands here and praises itself for creating such good conditions for Danish jobs, can the Minister for Finance reveal the importance of tax increases for employment in Denmark? What are the employment effects of such tax increases?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908201718	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908201719	I think it is very different from tax to tax. For example, when we raised the price of cigarettes, it had a positive effect on the supply of labour. So this is a concrete example of a place where the imposition of a tax means that the supply of labour increases. Then you will probably find examples of the opposite too. In short, we have to see economic policy in the context, and the economic policy pursued by this government is one which is to take good care of welfare, to keep unemployment down, to keep businesses up, to make sure that we invest in education and research. It is true, then, that we are not as prone as the government which Mrs Schack Elholm's party was behind to give tax cuts in time and early. The money can only be used once.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908201829	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908201830	That's very clever. When I ask about the taxes that have been proposed by the government since the summer holidays, is there an answer to something that we broadly agreed on before If we now focus on those that the government has proposed ever since the summer holidays there is too much money in the tax increases, would the Minister please explain whether they have a positive or a negative impact on employment?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908201852	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908201853	It depends very much on what it is that we spend the money we get in the box for. And this government is determined to use them to fight unemployment and to hold hands with companies and, by the way, to invest in research, including green research. I think that all three parts are positive, including for our business community. Then there may be moves in the other direction in relation to labour supply, but the basic thing is that we believe that this is an exceptionally responsible economic policy that benefits Denmark, Danish companies and Danish economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908201930	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908201931	The war fund the Minister of Finance is talking about is a 1-year war fund. I asked the Radical Left's financial rapporteur what action was taken in the government's financial bill that had such a lasting effect on making Denmark richer. To get back to the Rasmus Klump analogy: What is it in this bill of finance that makes next year more pancakes available if Pelle now brings an extra friend home? Well, where's more flour, where's a bigger forehead? It may well be that the radical rapporteur and I have not read enough in the draft budget. I'm betting that the Minister of Finance is the true pen operator. So where is it in the draft Finance Act that the government contributes to Denmark's lasting becoming a more prosperous country with more jobs and more income for the benefit of the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908202031	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908202031-2	I think this is a very good example of how economies can be assessed differently. I believe that it is a vitally important task to get Denmark well through the Corona crisis, because if we lose it on the floor, it will have endless consequences for Danish jobs and for the Danish economy. And then we can have a lot of meetings in this Parliament Hall, where you can rightly blame the government for not taking the steps that would ensure that Denmark got through the crisis well. That's task number one, two and three. By the way, we must do this in a way that brings the green transition to the forefront and takes good care of our well-being. And then we have to give it our priority. And that's what we, among other things. do on the research funds. If we had only followed the usual way of allocating research funds in this government, it would have been hundreds of millions of dollars lower than what we have played out with. But we do believe that research is one of the places that can help to create more flour or pancakes or how to express it. That is why it is a very wise place to take action, and I hope that the Left will support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908202147	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908202148	The list of concrete measures was then not firm in it. There is nothing that helps to increase the supply of labour, to boost investment on the contrary. On the contrary, the government is proposing to increase the income tax on shares; on a tax rate where we are much higher than our neighbouring countries, the government wants to increase taxation. See, I think that the Socialist Financial Rapporteur referred to OECD recommendations in his rapporteur's speech or in an answer to a question. What does the OECD recommend when it comes to equity income taxation? They recommend that Denmark lower it from 42 to 37 per cent. And what does the government do? They want to increase it from 42 to 45%. I just need to hear: How does this contribute to making Denmark a more prosperous society? How does this help to increase investment and create more jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908202246	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908202248	So, if you look at the international landscape, I think there are many who look to Denmark and think that here we have created a very good entrepreneurial climate. I can understand that. But it is clear that it is challenged in this time like everywhere else because of corona, and therefore it is also important that we put forward the idea of continuing schemes in the Growth Fund, creating good conditions for a strong recovery of the Danish economy by securing risk capital for Danish growth companies and entrepreneurs. That's what the government is proposing. It would be a good thing if the Left were to mention this in their list of government policy as well. We suggest that you do so next time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908202332	Sir. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908202332-2	I've looked into all these papers that have been written about the Finance Act, and there's a lot of numbers. For five years, however, since Mogens Lykketoft was in the chair of the United Nations, we have been talking about how we could contribute to solving the 17 challenges of the world goals. We have also said in this House time and again that we must mainstream those demands, and that means that economics and actions must be brought into line with these demands. What is the reason why there isn't a word about the world goals in the fine little pamphlet here? There you talk about covid-19 and all the other important things. But it is, after all, an overall task that we have given each other. Then it must also be mainstreamed when we talk about the most important document, namely the Finance Act for the coming year. I can also see that even the Minister of Finance is running around with the fine symbol of the 17 world goals.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908202435	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908202436	I do not know whether I am running around with it, but at least I am happy to carry it because it is an expression of an extremely important agenda. Tomorrow there will be a conference here in the Folketing where recommendations will be passed on to the government, and on behalf of the government I will also make our bid on how we can think the objectives of the world into the way we make politics. I am very much looking forward to this, and I also hope that the questioner will have the opportunity to be present, because it will give me better opportunity to unfold the Government's ideas in relation to the importance of the World Goals than an answer to approx. 20 seconds. I would also like to say that the objectives of the world are, of course, very much about the green transition, but not only about the green transition. That is why it is also important for us all here in the Danish Parliament to think more broadly, that is to say that this is something we think about in all ministries and in all committees, and that will also be some of what I am talking about tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908202542	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908202542-2	But I can see that the minister wears it in his jacket; I do not know whether he runs or runs, as they say in Danish, but at least he walks around with it. I just think that we have promised each other in a way that we should mainstream it and ensure that it was part of our whole thinking. I've been to the first meeting on this particular document. If I get there tomorrow, I dare not say, but I have read it and find what it says much more concrete than what we have been talking about today in fact, and it is indeed a quality from those from outside who have helped write that document, and that is why I think it could be really awesome. I would say that the Minister for Finance cannot now reach it this time, but hopefully there will be a Finance Act next year where he can put his fingerprints, and I would ask him to give a commitment that we will also mark that this Finance Act should contain the World Goals.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908202630	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908202634	I hope that when we come to make Finance Act next year, we will jointly have taken decisions between the government and the Danish Parliament that will make the world goals stronger, also in relation to Danish politics, not only in words but also in action. That's the government's intention for this. Then I hope I will have the opportunity to discuss it further tomorrow. It is a very fine conference that is taking place, among other things. with the participation of Her Royal Highness The Crown Princess.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908202710	Then there are two left on the list of speakers, and I will close it here, because that fits roughly with the hour of questions to the Minister for Finance that we have at our disposal if we add the Minister for Finance's extended speaking time to. And then I'll tell you that there's a chance to run another round, but then you can tell me up here if that's what you want. Then I shall give the floor to Mr Seligman. Tommy Ahlers, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908202742	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. The challenge is sometimes that you cannot see the pancakes that are missing, you can also say: the pancakes that have not been baked. It is also the case with entrepreneurs; you cannot see the entrepreneurial companies that have not been set up. Therefore, it may well be that the Minister is experiencing this mistake and I myself may also have made that sometimes when you ask entrepreneurs if it is a good country to do business in, then they answer yes. But it is because we forget to ask those who have not started their business or who have not come to Denmark to start their business. And the government will do this even worse by raising income tax on trading in shares, because even if income tax on trading in shares sounds like something we just put on some very rich people, and it may be such a grip where it is said that it was then a sensible government, then it may be that we are damaging the opportunities for the entrepreneurs that we have to live on in the future, both the entrepreneurs who create all sorts of other businesses and jobs, but also the entrepreneurs who are going to help us get the last 10%. from 60%. 70%. reduction in 2030. Why on earth, Minister, does the government think it is a good idea to create worse conditions for Danish entrepreneurs when this is where we have a challenge?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908202900	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908202901	First of all, I welcome the fact that Mr. Tommy Ahlers acknowledges that you actually see that Denmark is a country that is in a very, very many ways good for entrepreneurs, because we also need that. Unlike some of the countries around us, Denmark is a country where our business community is built around not many large companies, but very many small and medium-sized enterprises. And that goes without saying, not least on top of a Corona crisis that we are going through to some extent, but which we are far from achieving, which I made a great deal of today, that we also need to think about how we hold hands under our entrepreneurs, including when it comes to capital. And that is precisely why we are putting forward concrete proposals for the continuation of the three schemes of the Growth Fund: the growth loan scheme, small growth guarantees and the matching financing scheme, which will be very much something that entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises can benefit from, and I am sure that Mr. Tommy Ahlers, with the background and experience and, by the way, the great contribution that he has made to this country also professionally, will agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908203028	Sir. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908203029	I do not think that the Minister answered my question in isolation. Does the Minister agree that by increasing marginal share income tax from 42 per cent? at 45%. create worse conditions for Danish entrepreneurs because you raise the price of capital? That is the very simple question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908203048	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908203050	I do not agree that this government creates worse conditions for Danish business, including entrepreneurs, even when we look at the initiatives that we have on the tax part. On the other hand, I am deeply concerned that we are creating good conditions for entrepreneurs and for business, and that is precisely why we are continuing those arrangements which are of enormous importance and which can help to raise capital at a time when it is very much needed. And this government is going to continue to do so, because it is one of the ways in which we can help business and, above all, entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908203123	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908203125	Thank you to the Minister for Finance for a good speech, in which I must admit that a great deal was drawn on the smile tape. We in the Enhedslist very much agree that we need to create meaningful employment, that we need to get green jobs and welfare jobs going, and we have many proposals for that. I also believe that there are many ambitions that we share. At least how much we have to invest and prioritise will be an exciting debate. Now the Minister specifically mentions that we also need to get cash benefits recipients into work. We very much agree that people should not be on cash benefits; it should be a temporary benefit. But how will the government do that? Now the government specifically mentions immigrants on cash aid, and that just leaves a question, because will you do the things you actually know to work? Will a clarification guarantee be provided so that the effort starts quickly? Will rehabilitation be ensured so that one of the greatest barriers we see, which is a lack of education or language, is actually resolved? How do you want to do that? I would very much like to hear the Minister's reply to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908203223	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908203225	After all, we have set up a Services Commission to look at how best we can make sure that in this way we can ensure that people can both get incentives to get to work, but also have an opportunity to have a reasonable life situation if they are not in work. It's a job that's going on, and I'm not gonna stand here and get involved in it. I would say that, even before the change of government, the Social Democratic Party has presented ideas on how to get foreigners into work, including the 37-hour proposal; that is just one example of how to do so. I mean, I don't think you should ignore how important it is for people, whether you are at work or not at work. And when it comes to people with a foreign background, it also has a huge impact on integration • beyond what it means for Danish society financially. So this is really sensible to get started on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908203334	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908203335	Now I am the daughter of a mother who is an immigrant, so I know how much these things mean and how many legholds there actually are before you can get the opportunity to contribute. Fortunately, she has had and has been happy to pay taxes and contribute her work. The problem is that when we look at the employment effort, we see that there are a great many of the people who have an immigrant background who do not even get activation offers and who do not get the effort that is needed. That is why I get a little worried, because there is some premise in the way you say it, that is, as if they do not want to contribute or want to contribute. That's not true. It's just that we need to set the right measures in motion. That is why I can be a little concerned when we see that no money has been set aside in the Finance Act. It is thought that it should be cost-neutral. It is intended to do the things that work, and it may well be that it is a short-term expense, but I hope that the Minister of Finance agrees that in the long run, that is what pays off, so that people have the opportunity to enter the labour market and contribute.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908203434	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908203436	Fortunately, there are very, very many with a foreign background who would like to be part of the community and would like to contribute and who do so. No discussion about it. There may also be some, if we are now to be completely honest with each other, for whom it is very convenient to be able to sit at home and get an account filled up once a month. It could be a very good idea for them to come out and contribute to the community. So the world is nuanced. But whether you have one or the other approach, from an integration perspective it is also really, really important that we get people out to work. It is also a way to get to know Danish society. It's a way to get to know the language. And it is also a way of contributing to the community, that is to say to our overall economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908203536	Then we thank the Minister for Finance. No other round has been asked for, nor has anyone else asked for the floor. By its very nature, the debate has ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20200908203559	I should like to ask whether anyone wishes to speak, since the debate is, of course, open. That is not the case. I therefore propose that the legislative proposals be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200908203710	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Thursday, 10 September, at 10 a.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
