ParlaMint-DK_20201117130003	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117130010	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117130019	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative for yesterday's agreement on the legal basis for killing mink and tempo bonus. And welcome back to our colleague Søren Pape Poulsen. It's nice to see you after an attack by the covid-19 and having you back here. On September 10, 9 mink farms were infected with covid-19, at the beginning of November it was 191, and yesterday it was 279. Healthcare counselling is clear: People and mink infect each other; there is a strong geographical and temporal link between the number of infected mink farms and the infection among the local population. At the same time, the infection mutates among mink, and for approx. Two weeks ago, the Serum Institute informed that one of the mutations in preliminary studies showed reduced susceptibility to antibodies and that it could potentially have an impact on the efficacy of a future vaccine. There has subsequently been much debate both at home in Denmark, but also internationally. It is, of course, a debate that I welcome, because it is important. However, the Danish health authorities were very clear in their conclusion, and I quote: a continued mink breeding during an ongoing covid-19 epidemic poses a significant risk to public health, including for the possibilities of preventing covid-19 with vaccines. Quote out. As Prime Minister, I am not neglecting such a clear risk assessment by the health authorities. Where else are we? In our view, that would be reckless. Moreover, there are still parties here in the Danish Parliament who owe a clear answer as to whether the risk assessment carried out by the health authorities will be followed. For the time being, the authorities have not found any further examples of the so-called cluster-5 in humans, and it is very pleasing, but imagine if the opposite had happened, namely that it was spread to the rest of the country, also abroad, or that further mutations, cluster-6, 7 or 8. We cannot take that risk in Denmark. It is about public health, but it is also about Denmark's exports, the economy and our reputation in the world. The decision was and is necessary, and the health risk assessment speaks its clear language. Is that an excuse for making mistakes? No, it's not. I have already regretted the lack of a legal basis, and I would like to regret that again today, and there will be a statement to the Danish Parliament. But I would particularly like to express my regret to the Danish mink growers. Jeres life is turned upside down, yet you have handled the situation incredibly responsibly, and I am truly sorry for what you have had to model for the last two weeks. It has been the process here, of course, also gives cause for reflection, also on the proposal for an epidemic law which is now under discussion. We are listening to the criticism, a different balance needs to be struck, and that is why the Minister for Health is now embarking on the actual negotiations on a new epidemic law with a different content than that which is well known. Finally, I would like to say that Denmark and Europe are not through covid-19. Just one example: Austria, which managed well through the pandemic's first wave, now shuts down society hard for 3 weeks. As my good friend and colleague Chancellor Kurz said: Do not meet anyone, any social contact is too much. Denmark is for the time being a better place thanks to the efforts of the people, but also thanks to the many tests, tracings and isolation and the early restrictions. At the same time, we now have an early warning system with an external reference group where economists and health professionals meet with the authorities. In Denmark, we are now monitoring the epidemic so thoroughly that we are in much better time and can prepare where possible further action needs to be taken. Of course, it also allows for a good parliamentary process; it is the responsibility of the government and we will invite it to do so. This applies in relation to the restrictions that expire on Sunday, and also in relation to the authorities' assessment that further action may be needed at a later stage in the metropolitan area and in the western region if this proves necessary. The government will, of course, maintain the premise that we do not do less than what the health authorities recommend. Yesterday, the Minister for Health started discussions with the parties, and the more support there is in the Danish Parliament for the recommendations of the health authorities, the better it is, of course. Having said that, I cannot deny that during Corona there will again be situations in which we would have to take decisions together at very short notice, and it was the power of action that saved us back then in March. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117130541	Thank you. We now move on to questions from the party leaders. The questioner and the Prime Minister both have up to two minutes' speaking time and then follow two follow-up questions where the questioner and the Prime Minister each have one minute's speaking time. The first is sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117130558	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Prime Minister. It's been a week since we last stood in here with a similar sound sculpture. At that time, I thought that what the government had done was a scandal. That was an illegal order, and you have killed an entire profession. I should like to say that this scandal has not diminished in the course of the last week, when we have all become wiser. The Prime Minister is again trying to make this contrast between public health and government and says it is necessary to act. Yes, but it is also necessary to observe the Constitution. I think we can agree on that too. The impression left behind is that you really do not regret giving an illegal order, nor do you regret just driving it through. Even when it became known that it was illegal, nothing was done to correct it. It has become apparent that the issue of compensation for mink farmers who are affected had not been considered at all. Over the last week, I was repeatedly begging the government to contact the European Commission. Until Sunday night, there was no way to do that. Curiously, it could happen all of a sudden on Monday morning, when you didn't have a majority. That is something that the Left still cares about, and that is something that we are going to pursue, regardless of the fact that the parliamentary basis of the government has now blue-stamped the illegal act of the government in relation to the constitution. A profession has been laid in the grave; families have been crushed; life's work has been destroyed; generations' work has gone out of the window; North Jutland is affected by restrictions that have now recently been cast into doubt; there is a moony population; and there is so much queue at the sink: What does the Prime Minister really intend to do to restore confidence in the house here and to the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117130751	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117130754	Thank you for the question and thank you for the cooperation we have on this matter. A great deal has been said in the public debate, but over the last few days we have been negotiating very, very close and confidentially and properly to find a solution in terms of compensation. And I really feel that we are broadly in agreement that, in the light of the health assessment, which I understand the Left supports, namely that the minks must be killed, the minks must be put to rest in the unhappy situation, as is the case, there must also be compensation, which means that mink farmers come well from the profession which they have been working for many years, and which, for many, is a real work of life. We are still debating the compensation part further, and I am also pleased with the dialogue we have had on the EU issue. It is clear that we cannot, and I believe that the Left also agrees with the government, break EU law or the state aid rules that exist, but we can do everything we can to find a solution in the very exceptional situation that exists. I can say there that I myself spoke to the President of the Commission yesterday, just as over the weekend there has been a very close dialogue with the Commission as a whole about whether we cannot find a solution that will enable us, in this very exceptional situation, to provide the mink farmers with the compensation that is needed. On the question of confidence: there are, after all, the same conditions for all of us elected representatives, namely that this is something we should earn. There, of course, I hope for continued good cooperation in and with the Danish Parliament on all the decisions to be taken about the covid-19. And what is at any rate absolutely crucial when it comes to trust is that the Danish Parliament stands behind the recommendations of the health authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117130945	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117130948	Thank you for that, I think at least thank you for that part of listening to the recommendation to take hold of the Commission. I think it took an incredibly long time, and it annoys me. During the past week, the Prime Minister has tried various times, and most recently in the presentation here a few moments ago to explain away his violation of law that there has been a mistake, that there has been a legal challenge, that it is the food minister's fault or responsibility, that it is the officials' fault and that there is a statement, etc. etc. Well, the fact is that an illegal order was given at the Prime Minister's press conference; the fact is that the words came out of the Prime Minister's mouth; the fact is that the decision was made in the Government Coordination Committee, where the Prime Minister, if not physically, sits at the end of the table. So, to repeat the question I asked last week, does the Prime Minister think that the Prime Minister is responsible for this illegal decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117131045	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117131047	I do not quite understand the polemical approach to the question of the statement, because I actually understand the fact that the Folketing wants a proper account of this process. That statement is being worked on and it will be presented tomorrow. I intend to respect it, and I would also like to call for a judgment not to be handed down until that statement has been seen in relation to this process. It is a mistake that there was no legal basis, and we have regretted that. Clearly, it goes without saying that there must always be a legal basis when decisions are made. But I just have to understand: do you disagree with the resolution? Because that's the essence of this discussion. No. Yes, it is because when we get a risk assessment that deals with public health, potentially both in Denmark, in Europe and globally, then we have to act, and we chose to make that quickly known to me with the support of the Left. I assume that that support is still there. And then the statement has to uncover what has happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117131154	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117131155	So there's no such thing as sorry, sir. Officer, I ran a red light, but I was in a hurry. No matter how busy you are, you have to wait until it's green. And no matter how urgent it is, you have to wait until the law is in place. That was the agreement behind it yesterday, with the help of the government's parliamentary basis. The legal home as such is not in place until it is treated here in the house. So it does not change the fact that law is law and that law must be kept. Now I understand that the Prime Minister is leaning on one of the food minister's numerous explanations: that you knew it well, but that you acted because it was important to act quickly. That's the way I have to hear the Prime Minister say it. And there is the fact that I just ask in all silence: do we agree that the responsibility for being run red for the full sound was the Prime Minister's?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117131248	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117131250	But what is being said is not correct. That is not correct, and I have to arrest it strongly because, as I said last week, if we had been aware that there was no legal basis for making this decision, we would have said so at the press conference; we would have said so. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen It was not so urgent after all?).
ParlaMint-DK_20201117131312	I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117131314	Yes, the speed cannot be called into question in my view, because if there is a safety risk that concerns the public health of the Danes, then we responsible politicians will have to react. That is why I still believe that the resolution was necessary. If we had been informed when we took the decision that there was no legal basis, we would have held exactly the same press conference, but, of course, had said in the press conference: there is no legal basis, and we will now ask Parliament to support that. It hadn't changed the decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117131344	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117131352	Thank you, President, and thank the Prime Minister for his introductory remarks. My questions today are also about the mink case, and they are also about what the government really did when it was found that it was an illegal practice that was being implemented. I would actually like to start by saying that I think that land should be built by law....... it's out here over the entrance to the hall... and I think that's such a general understanding we have. But just to be absolutely sure how we are going to proceed with this matter, I would really like to ask the Prime Minister if she agrees with the following two statements, and one is: no matter what you think about all sorts of issues, the law must be kept. It is useless to base a society on lawlessness, either in one context or another. That was the first statement. The second statement is that a country cannot have a government that does not want to comply with either the national law or the international obligations that exist, because then it will be a lawless society, and in my view no party or politician can defend that. That's the second statement. Does the Prime Minister agree with these two statements?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117131456	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117131458	Yes, it is the Prime Minister and I would almost think that these are quotes from the Prime Minister's mouth, it could at least sound like wordings that I may have used here in the Assembly Hall. There is nothing, either in the statements or in the dialogue we have today, to change the fact that it is of course problematic that there is no legal basis for the decision taken by the government. It's a mistake. It is a mistake that we have regretted and everyone is now awaiting a statement which will show what has happened ahead of this issue, and I think that is the right way to deal with it. At the same time, I must, in great respect, respect this discussion, because it is quite real, it is perfectly legitimate to have a discussion about this, to insist that the task we have to undertake and the task we have to solve is about the public health of the Danes. We are in a situation where the large reservoir of mink in Denmark is a challenge for the health of the Danes, for public health, and potentially it is also global, and therefore there is a task that still needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117131603	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117131604	I am glad that the Prime Minister agrees with these quotations, because it is the Prime Minister's own quotes from earlier this year that dealt with why a commission should be set up in the so-called child bride case. Then the Prime Minister also said that if this argument is to be brought to an end, namely that at will, almost no matter how good a heart we do it, we can choose as politicians to override either constitutional, ordinary law or European and international regulation, where do we end up? Should it then be the case that, because you think you are right, you should simply be able to override the law? What, then, of another majority who thinks that legislation should be disregarded on the other side? Then it is a lawless society, and I guess we can't really defend that the Prime Minister continued with the other two quotes I made, but that's exactly what the Prime Minister is doing in this case. Because in this case the Prime Minister says, from the point of view of finding out that this is illegal, illegal practice, that you still continue to do so, and that means that we will then be in a lawless society, where the Prime Minister defines what you are allowed to do and what you are not allowed to do, and that is not the legal framework that sets those limits. Can the Prime Minister not see that this is at least as serious as the arguments used by the Prime Minister to set up a commission of instructions?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117131712	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117131714	We are now discussing my words on both sides, and I fully agree with them. I am, of course, because I agree with Mrs Inger Støjberg about the problem of living at a Danish asylum centre with a minor. I completely agree with that, I was then, and I am still gone. That does not change the fact that we have to make up our minds, and it is true that in every situation we have to examine and uncover different situations. It is, of course, a decision that is made here in the Folketing, and I have very, very much respect for that. I also have to say that when the decision is taken in relation to the killing of the minks, I and we are not aware that there is no legal basis. I do not think that is to override legislation. I think that is two different discussions. But in respect of the statement that I now understand you are almost indifferent to that I do not actually understand you are, so I have actually understood that there is a great desire for a statement so I think you should make a verdict when you see that statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117131821	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117131824	If the Prime Minister is not to risk being accused of hypocrisy here, quite frankly, then I think the Prime Minister must quickly come up with the view that the arguments used by the Prime Minister himself in the past about the setting up of a commission of instructions mean that a commission of inquiry should be set up on the course we have had here. I therefore believe that the Prime Minister must do this quite quickly, otherwise I think most people can see that when you sit as an opposition politician you think it is quite good to have the others examined and that when you sit in government offices you should not apply similar lines. Here we are dealing with a case where we know the law is broken. We know that the Prime Minister has become aware that the law is being broken at some point, and that the Prime Minister has not asked to get things straightened out. We have been asked to have some legislation made later that legalises it, but illegal practices have not been stopped. So we know that there has been a period in which legislation has been broken and with the quotes used by the Prime Minister to set up a commission of instructions, I have to say that whatever you think about all sorts of issues, the law must be kept. It is useless to base a society on lawlessness, either in one context or another. Then the Prime Minister must be able to see that a commission of inquiry is the only right thing to do here. We will look at the statement that will come tomorrow, of course, but it is the government's own What we need in the Folketing is an impartial examination of this, and there is only one committee of inquiry that can get to the bottom.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117131932	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117131934	But the Danish People's Party is free to have that attitude. As far as hypocrisy and the commission of instructions are concerned, I believe that there are some parties that have far greater problems than this government will have in this matter. Now the chairman of the Danish People's Party claims that you know a lot about what has happened. It's possible you do it. I think, in respect of the Folketing, that the right thing to do is to wait for the statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117131958	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117132005	Thank you. We are not really talking about anything else in these days, and it is also important: about violations of law, about compensation, about virus mutations in mink, but we must also not forget the people that it is about, both the many North Jutlanders, who are extremely limited in their freedom to move where they want, and of course the mink farmers, who, in very few minutes on 4 November, got the basis of life ripped out of their hands and now have to put their animals to death under great pressure of time, and who also, because we are not finished, do not yet know what the future will bring, but also the many Danes and indeed citizens of the whole world, who are afraid that Denmark is developing a new form of corona, which may not yet be able to be dealt with by the vaccines that are being developed, and finally, and I think that is important, all those who do not understand that one can break the law, and then ask whether it should not have consequences. At least that is what I am getting a lot of inquiries about, and we owe all these groups answers. Even though it may be difficult, I think, from the outside, to find a head and a tail in what it is all about, I really believe that the way forward is so reasonably clear. Every mink in Denmark must be defeated. Health risks are too high. Then Nordjylland must be reopened as soon as possible. They must receive full compensation; they must receive a broad majority in the Folketing, and they should also receive an apology for the treatment they have received. That's almost what I heard from the PM before, so thank you for it! Finally, infringements must be thoroughly investigated, starting with the statement by the Minister for Food tomorrow, so that the relevant consequences can be drawn. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister first of all: does the Prime Minister agree that that is what needs to happen now?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117132207	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117132209	Yes, I very much agree with what is being said, and there is also, I think, a very, very important point in that there should of course be a discussion when it turns out that there is no legal basis. It is clear, and it is a mistake, and we have said this from the outset, and I could not dream of anything else. In addition, and I very much agree with that, there are a number of priority tasks because we have a risk to public health, and we cannot ignore that. I do not see how any responsible politician can ignore such a risk assessment. So, although it is painful, and yes, there is a lot to apologise for the mink farmers in this matter, unfortunately we must have the animals killed so that we can solve that part of the problem. When the health authorities are ready, we need to lift the restrictions on North Jutland. The work in North Jutland is going well. The Northern Jutlanders are good at testing, and it is going well in relation to the work around the minks. And then we have to get that compensation in place, because I think it is important that some dots are also put in this process, that you know what you have to do well with, and there I would like to sign up for a good cooperation to find a solution to it. And it is always the case, of course, that when mistakes are made in or around a government, it has to be unveiled.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117132332	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117132334	There is talk of the risk of infection, almost on the one hand, and of breaches of law on the other. As far as I and the Radical Left are concerned, both are very relevant and, as we know, one does not exclude the other. But I also find that the Danes lack the spirit of cooperation which rested on Christiansborg in the first coronatid and for which the government has a responsibility, because the government has long and, in my opinion, also for too long insisted on running things itself. On the other hand, Christiansborg and a little power struggle and theatre can go on too serious matters, and I think both are untenable. This upsets confidence in decisions, and it is absolutely essential for us. It is our strongest corona weapon that the Danes have so much common sense. We must not put this at risk, which is why I would like to ask: how will the Prime Minister give the Danes and the companies and parties here in the Folketing security in order to bring the parties of the Folketing together behind the difficult decisions as an assurance against a repetition?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117132448	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117132450	Thank you also for that question, and I fully agree with it by a broad majority behind the agreements that are being made, both in terms of the large and difficult decisions. That is almost everything when it comes to corona, because when we sit and make aid packages and financial compensation, there are also extremely large amounts of money and, of course, decisions that can have enormous significance for the individual owner or employee or individual self-employed. The vast majority of agreements that have been made since we started dealing with covid-19 have been made broadly, and the Radical Left is, moreover, one of the parties that is sovereignly involved in most agreements, and we must of course continue this work and do even better. I believe that the next example is, after all, the question of extending restrictions. Some of the restrictions that apply at national level expire on Sunday. The health authorities have some recommendations on what this should look like after Sunday, and I hope that the parties of the Danish Parliament can put themselves behind those recommendations and that we can then have a decision on it. In any case, this is a concrete next good example of where we can work together.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117132552	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117132553	Finally, I am pleased that the Prime Minister and the Government have realised that the proposal for a new epidemic law, frankly, was on the moon and must be scrapped. Only all the other parties in the Folketing and all the organisations around us opposed that draft. It may well be called a hint with a rod to change the basic course. So does the Prime Minister recognise that there is a need to change decisively the draft of a new epidemic law which the government had presented and which I understand is now being withdrawn and that there is a real new draft that is in line with our rule of law tradition?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117132635	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117132637	Yes, of course it must be in line with our rule of law mechanisms and principles, and we must have an epidemic law that works. I also think it is important to say that the history of this is, of course, that there has been a wish, I must understand, from the Minister for Health to the fact that this work was started at a slightly later stage, because there is a great deal to do in dealing with the specific epidemic. It is also important to say that some of the provisions that have been discussed in relation to the epidemic law are not about dealing with covid-19, but other epidemics, even potentially more dangerous. Not because we do not have enough to do with the one we are dealing with now, but there may also be epidemics in the future. So our starting point will be, also on the basis of the criticism that has been raised, both internally at meetings and externally • I think there are also some who are proclaiming it out on the Palace Square right now • that the parties sit down, and then we start, you might say, from the start, to the drafting of an epidemic law in which the parties of the Folketing can see themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117132734	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117132742	I am glad that the Prime Minister takes the situation as seriously as the Prime Minister does. These are serious times of great dilemmas and important decisions. It is therefore also necessary to take a small step back, and I would like to do so. As a society, we must address the very serious situation in Denmark with viral mutations in mink mutations that challenge both public health and Danish export opportunities. And we have seen this by the fact that Britain suddenly imposed tough restrictions on Denmark. The threat to public health is real; it strikes one of the leading experts in the field, Professor Jan Christensen of the Institute of Immunology and Microbiologist. He says that, unfortunately, mink are hatchery boxes for resistant viruses and that the problem cannot be isolated to the so-called cluster-5, as some parties have otherwise made it sound, but precisely that these minks are constantly developing new mutations, and that is what makes the situation so quite serious. This means that if we don't knock down the minks, we could quickly face a new problem, a new mutation. This is deeply serious and I am therefore pleased that the government is taking the threat seriously. And I am a little shocked when I hear that the President of the Left will not reply to the speaker here, whether he takes it seriously too. Having said that, it should also be stressed that law is law and that the law must be observed. I am therefore also sure that the Prime Minister agrees with me that the process of killing the Danish mink has not been pretty, as the Prime Minister also replied to my radical colleague. We need to clean up, we need to turn every stone around. I therefore expect and assume that the Prime Minister agrees that this process must be unveiled 100% so that the government can show the Danes that it takes lawbreak as seriously as the SF does.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117132948	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117132951	A statement is being made, and in it it is going to be described what it is that has preceded this decision. I have a great deal of respect for the fact that the Danish Parliament, or at least a number of parties, has wanted a statement and, of course, when mistakes are made, they also have to be dealt with. I am also pleased with the opening words. We are in the midst of a global pandemic; Europe has chosen in many places real closures of societies and curfews have been imposed; the situation is really, really bad in Sweden right now; the Benelux countries, the southern European countries, England and also a number of Eastern European countries that did well during the spring are in a really difficult situation. It is often the case in the Danish debate that you get the feeling that we are through covid-19. We are not in the midst of a global pandemic, and it is also too, I think, too often in the political debate that it is forgotten that we have 600,000 Danes in the risk group who must not get covid-19, whom we must do everything we can to take care of, screens and protect. After all, we need to be capable enough, both in government and in Parliament, to be able both to deal with the situation regarding mink, but also to keep the epidemic under control. For if we lose that control, we will also lose in my view the good opportunity we have now to get the economy and jobs well through this. While we have been in this Chamber, it has been reported that 200 cases of infection have been found among employees of six mink lines. It shows something about how aggressive this infection is, and so, unfortunately, mink in Denmark could be an independent reason why the epidemic will continue to develop negatively.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117133143	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117133146	I fully agree with the Prime Minister on this, including in the seriousness of it. And we have agreed with the government when it has been about shutting down in reality and also imposing restrictions, and we will also be willing to extend that when it comes to the current restrictions. I would like to give an undertaking on this point. But this process has also shown that we have a very special responsibility to look after our democracy in times like these. That lesson seems to me to be lacking in the government's draft of a new epidemic law, as I also said last Wednesday. Perhaps it is not so strange, because the law was sent to a hearing before it was actually finished. After all, all the bourgeois parties, plus the Radical Left, wanted the law to be consulted early, and now the very same parties are criticising the law for being unfinished. The SF is in agreement, and I think we need to make certain things clear: that too much emphasis is placed on coercion, that it is too bad a fence, and I think we will get much further by telling the Danes that we are taking this seriously. I would therefore like to hear what the Prime Minister thinks we can do in terms of including the democratic element in the epidemic law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117133259	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117133301	Well, the epidemic law itself is an interesting size. I have soon been a member of the Folketing for 20 years and do not really recall having had any discussions on the epidemic law. Now we are in a situation of a global pandemic, and that is why, of course, we have this discussion, and we need an epidemic law that works in the right democratic way into the future. That is why I also said in my introduction that I think we should start the negotiations, in my view, with all the parties of the Danish Parliament, and have an epidemic law drawn up which has the democratic foundation, it must of course have, the democratic content it must of course have, but which, at the same time, can also work in a situation where a new global pandemic has to be created, which we must be able to deal with in Denmark. I'm actually confident that this can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117133353	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117133356	Yes, because one of the elements that we can also hear outside the pot and forehead demonstrations is very busy is both the question of whether the decisions should be taken by the Minister for Health alone and there I would like to make it clear from the SF that we do not want that, we do not want it to be democratically anchored and the other part is about the issue of forced vaccinations, which are of great concern to many people. After all, we have been inoculating people in Denmark for many, many years without having had to use force, but in return good information. These are two of the elements which the SF will require to be amended in the draft of the epidemic law, and I would just like to hear from the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister agrees that precisely these two elements must be looked at.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117133435	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117133437	Well, I really think, on the basis of the discussion that has taken place here in the Danish Parliament, but also outside, that we should go to these negotiations with an open mind all together and so have legislation that gives us the opportunity we need to have in Denmark to deal with a difficult illness, while at the same time the Folketing's parties can see themselves in the legislation that we end up with. I also agree with the chairman of the SF that we still need to get an answer, including today, to whether the parties of the Folketing support the health authorities and the recommendations, whether the necessary decision has been taken in relation to mink has been taken and whether all parties in the Folketing choose to support the recommendations of the health authorities in relation to restrictions after Sunday.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117133519	Thank you. We move on to the next question, and this is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117133527	As most people, I hope, have discovered, it has been very important for the Enhedslisten throughout the corona epidemic that we take the health risk very seriously and that we are protecting those people who are in a particularly vulnerable position because of this virus. That is also why we can support the fact that we are actually getting a legal basis in place so that we can follow the recommendations of the health authorities and have the minks slaughtered that are needed so that we can try to take care of those people who could otherwise be affected by a very large spread, potential mutated viruses, etc. However, that does not mean, of course, that we will then let go of the matter of lack of legal basis. These two things can actually be done at once, and I think that is important to emphasise in this discussion. We have not stamped anything illegal at all, but we support the fact that we are actually getting the legal basis in place. I am saying this because I actually think it is important that we, as Parliament, take our task of parliamentary control seriously. In fact, I think it is just as important that we in here both make proper legislation and take that part of the job seriously, but also use the parliamentary systems to be a supervisory body in a proper way. So when a minister makes a decision without a legal basis and that has happened, you have to check whether it was something that the minister was warned about, and we will continue to investigate until we have got to the bottom of this matter. The second element in this case, which the Enhedslisten is going to get to the bottom of, is the prior warnings, and I think there are remarkably few in here talking about this, and perhaps also remarkably few there are going to go to the Prime Minister about the fact that there is evidence that the Minister for Food was already aware in September that there was a risk that mutated viruses could arise and could endanger vaccine research. Yet he is not acting, and yet it takes much more than 14 days for the Folketing to be informed of exactly that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117133738	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117133742	I fully agree that the Enhedslisten has also been concerned over a long period of time with what, as it were, preceded the dramatic and difficult decision taken 14 days ago, as well as the SF, I know. This is, of course, a completely reasonable discussion, and I think that should also be discussed in the future. At the same time, I have to say that to let all the mink in Denmark be put to death is such a violent decision, I do not think it is possible to do so without being absolutely sure that this is the necessary decision, because it is so violent a decision, it is so great a decision, it has such great consequences for the citizens involved that I will at least take as Prime Minister the basis for a risk assessment to make it the necessary decision. But, of course, the government is also happy to enter into the discussion on the previous period.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117133850	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117133853	Well, I fully agree with that, that is, it is a very, very violent decision. What I'm talking about is, in fact, the period when not even infected mink was slaughtered. In other words, there was a period over the summer and right up to October 1st, where, to put it bluntly, attempts were made to contain the infection among mink with some protective equipment and some hand alcohol. The infection developed and developed and developed, and in September the health authorities then told the FDA that there is a risk that viruses can even motivate and that the serious situation can arise which ultimately leads to all mink being slaughtered. Nevertheless, there is a period in which the Minister of Food does not act, and it takes more than 14 days for the Danish Parliament to know that this risk is there. Does the Prime Minister think that action has been taken in time?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117133945	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117133946	There are two things I would like to say to you. In general terms, I would like to refer to the statements that are being made in relation to what has been done in this matter, including with regard to the Ministry of Food and Food, also in respect of the desire for explanations to be made. In addition, I would like to say that we have all known, both in the government, in the Folketing and in public, that there has been a risk associated with mink. It is over a long period that the risk of mink compared to covid-19 has been well known. The precise risk assessment, which is then the basis for the decision on killing, comes only now, but that there is a risk associated with mink, we have known about over a long period of time. A number of different strategies have been adopted. Whether this has been correct or not, I have no opportunity to assess it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117134042	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117134043	I am also looking forward to seeing the statement, which I hope will come tomorrow, also as far as that part is concerned, because it will be even more worrying. Indeed, I agree with what the Prime Minister says that a decision as serious as slaughtering all minks and thus potentially shutting down a whole profession forever must be taken with caution and on the basis of the recommendations of the health authorities. However, we are worried when we understand yesterday that there has apparently been some confusion as to the premises on which the recommendations of the health authorities should be based. In other words, if it is true, as the Director of the Serum Institute says, that they have been told or at least got a clear impression that the premise was that recommendations were not to be made which could threaten the survival of the industry and that they have thus perhaps not made the recommendations they would otherwise make on the basis of a medical assessment, then surely we also have a problem, at least in the Ministry and in the Board. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117134140	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117134141	Well, I would like to recommend, in respect of the statements, that we have the explanations and then we have to assess their contents.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117134153	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen of the Conservative People's Party. And welcome back.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117134158	Thank you. I would like to address some of what I heard the Prime Minister reply just now. For the Prime Minister said that before taking such a far-reaching decision as to leave a profession, one must be absolutely sure. Then it is incomprehensible to me that the rest of us have an hour and a half in a meeting with some ministers and some officials, some governments, on 4 November, when I ask myself whether we cannot have a second opinion, whether we are absolutely sure of this and whether there is a consensus on this, but that there is no time for it even if you have not seen cluster-5 since September in North Jutland. And now there are other scientists who are out to question it. Fauci has said, does this affect a vaccine? I don't know if the government has asked the vaccine companies if this is going to affect a vaccine. Danish researchers have also been critical of it. If the Prime Minister really thinks that one does not lay down an entire profession without being absolutely sure, why could not just a day or two be given to a second opinion? But it was very important to get out the same day and say: All minkavl in Denmark is destroyed; it is over, it is finished. Has the Prime Minister at no time had the grace of doubt in that it might be that the 8-9 other parties in the Folketing might have something to contribute and could ask something that resembled relevant questions so that you could have this discussion? What was the rush? That seems to me to be completely lost in the fog, and right now we have a profession that is over, dead and gone, at least with the agreement that was made yesterday, which means that it is over with it in Denmark. And you didn't even have a day or two to ask for a second opinion; you were just overheard at that meeting. I think that's crazy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117134352	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117134354	It's being asked why it was so urgent. After all, it does so solely for the sake of the Danes' public health and potentially global public health. That is the reason for the haste. There are no other reasons. When you get a risk assessment like the one we get on that Monday night, I do not think that you can make other decisions responsibly. That's why we're hurrying. And it's about public health at home; about the infection from the minks; about the mutation; about the potential risk in relation to vaccine. And of course it is also about Denmark's reputation in the world, namely: Are we able to make the necessary decisions on the basis of such a risk assessment that the rest of the world will also keep an eye on? That is the reason for the haste. Do I own the grace of doubt? Yes, I do. And the whole corona management since March has been full of dilemmas. On a daily basis there are dilemmas. That is why I would like to say two things. One is: Does the Conservative People's Party support us in making the necessary decisions on the risk assessment? And the other is: We will have to trust the Danish health authorities. It is they who advise both the government, but indeed the Folketing, in the decisions that have to be taken. And I certainly do not have any evidence that I do not trust the Danish health authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117134516	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117134517	It's okay. I don't think anyone has any evidence of not having confidence. Sometimes decisions are so big that you could ask other people and perhaps have an idea whether others could help make a decision better. Then the Prime Minister also said I think it was earlier this day here that it became a bit polemical with violations of law etc. Yes, now we need to see the statement. I don't want to know who knew what. All I can say is that on Sunday everyone knew that there was a crime going on. You knew that Sunday, but you didn't stop it. The Prime Minister said earlier today that if this had been known at the press conference, it would of course have been said. But you knew it on Sundays, but it was allowed to continue. I mean, the Prime Minister must be so excited about the parliamentary basis she has, who thinks it's okay that you just keep on breaking the law. The PM knew about it on Sunday. So why didn't you stop? What is the reason why you kept on and didn't stop it? Is it because the Prime Minister simply believes that, in this matter, she is convinced that it is coming before the law, that the Prime Minister is of the opinion that this is just going to happen and that we will have to deal with it afterwards, even if we were aware that the law had been broken?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117134630	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117134632	No. The answer to that question is no. There is nothing about Danish legislation, and neither is there, and there has been no such thing at any time in this corona management. We do not know, as we make the decision, that there is no legal basis. So the answer to that question is no. In relation to the Danish health authorities: I am pleased if there is broad support in the Danish Parliament for the Danish health authorities. And I assume that this is what I have done throughout the whole process... that the Danish authorities are in close contact both with colleagues abroad and abroad and with the organisations that handle the global pandemic and have knowledge of it. And so I am going to base that on the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117134717	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117134719	But, Prime Minister, you didn't know when you made the decision. Until I hear anything else, I take it for good goods. Then one realises that hooves, the law is broken, there is even a written quote from the Minister for Food that Sunday. What's left now, no matter how bad it is, and sometimes I think it's as if the rest of us are just in the way and insist on all this democracy and stuff like that, is that I think we could get a long way if we got involved a little bit, and that's another thing. But can't the Prime Minister just tell me that and you don't have to make statements about that when you find out that something is illegal, and you find out, why don't you stop it? There was an illegal order, and the defense was sent out on people's property. There are so many grotesque things here, and I don't know when the day will come when I won't be affected by seeing this part about how people have been treated. But, Prime Minister, you knew, and when you knew, why didn't you stop it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117134829	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117134831	I have a clear expectation that when you are called to the attention of the responsible minister that there is no legal basis for the decision that has been taken, you will, of course, correct the problems that exist. And in relation to being affected: we all are. We're all affected by this situation. It is a deeply unhappy decision that we have had to make. It is so painful to see that people who have lived on a profession for generations have built up a life's work, not being given the opportunity to continue it. It is painful for all of us, and that is why I also hope that we can get a proper agreement on compensation. Now an agreement has been made on the legal basis issue. The issue of compensation is at least as important, and being able to send mink growers, but also their employees, including the surrounding communities and the accompanying professions, further in a good way, both in terms of economics, but also in relation to other opportunities to be able to switch to other subjects, is essential to me if we are to deal properly with these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117134935	Thank you. We move on to the next question, which is Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117134943	Thank you. It has now been nine days, nine days, since the government recognized that it was against the law to demand healthy mink outside the infected zones. The illegal order had then been in force for 4 days, an order issued by the Prime Minister personally on direct television, and instead of curbing the damage when the illegality became publicly known, the government chose to continue, and here on the ninth day the crime continues. I find it hard to understand why the Prime Minister has let it come here. Maybe the PM can explain himself. Why didn't you prepare yourself better? The time was right. As early as September 18th, we can read in Jyllands-Posten there was a risk assessment. There could have been other solutions that kept the industry alive. You could have isolated mink farms much earlier, you could have secured breeding material, you could have shared knowledge with other researchers and found solutions, and when you have time you can usually find better solutions than those you find when you act backwards and perhaps on the basis of fear. So why were the PM and the government sitting on their hands so long? Why didn't the prime minister advise others? Why wasn't the time spent finding other and better solutions? Why did we end up with the worst and most expensive of all solutions, the abandonment of a whole profession, the destruction of dreams, the destruction of lives, the loss of values, the loss of jobs and the loss of exports?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117135123	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117135125	Thank you for that question too. First of all, I would like to say that we have not made decisions on the basis of fear. We have taken a decision on the basis of the risk assessment carried out by the health authorities, and I can see nothing more than that a responsible politician will have to make the decision, with the knowledge that has been provided at home, but also the knowledge that is in this discussion. I still find it rather unclear whether we support the recommendation made by the health authorities. I do not feel able to do anything else on the basis of that risk assessment, and this is also about the time interval that is happening. After all, there is a lot going on around mink for a longer period than the one we are currently discussing, and a lot of mink is being knocked down, sick mink, which is being made safety zones, the authorities are working on a number of different things. But since the risk assessment that hits us hits us, I really do not believe that a different decision can be taken. And if I also understand it, one can say that, professionally in relation to mink, when it comes to killing mink, which we unfortunately have to do in Denmark, we must also be careful that we do not create a false hope that, if you just kept a few animals, you can get the profession back to the level that the profession has had in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117135301	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117135303	I'm getting more and more worried. The Prime Minister says again today: as one unfortunately has to. It's still the case that there's no legal basis for putting these minks down. There is an agreement in place, yes, but it is not third-read here, and thus the government has to be put to death mink throughout Denmark. The other day we read that the army had entered a mink farm outside the zones. It was Wednesday, that is, several days after the government became aware that this violation took place, i.e. that an illegal order had been issued. In the past, the Prime Minister said that the Prime Minister was confident that when you were responsible for an area and you became aware that you were acting illegally, you withdrew these orders. Does the Prime Minister believe that the Secretary of Defense has assumed responsibility by letting the army go out without legal basis? And if not, is it the army that has acted contrary to the government's orders?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117135409	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117135411	I assume that all the authorities are doing their job properly. I'll take that as a basis, too, in this case. In relation to my statements, everyone in Denmark knows that there is no legal basis. Everyone knows that. It is now the case that a political agreement has been reached to ensure that the legal framework is put in place. So I am no different from what is known on the issue of the law, namely that there is no legal basis for the decision taken by the government. That then does not change the substance; it does not change the content, namely that we have to protect the Danes, we have to take care of public health, and that is why, in my view, it is still crucial and still necessary for us to follow the recommendations of the health authorities. And I actually find it interesting, also for the Danes, to know whether all parties in the Folketing support the recommendation made by the health authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117135513	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117135515	I think it is more interesting for the Danes to know that we have a government which, even after you become aware that you have committed offences, continues the illegal orders. As recently as yesterday, an agreement was reached stating that these orders are a requirement. It is therefore only on the day that the agreement is signed by a majority in the Folketing, and a long time may take. So there is still no legal basis for requiring healthy breeding animals outside the zones to be killed, and this is quite serious. Both I and New Citizens believe that the government should resign and let the Danes be heard. Because the case doesn't end here. Although perhaps the Prime Minister should choose to sacrifice the Minister for Food Mogens Jensen in this matter, I and New Citizens will be pressing for a Commission inquiry into this, and I would like to ask the Prime Minister, who is also President of the Social Democratic Party: will the Social Democratic Party support a Commission inquiry into the whole process and the whole government's handling of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117135619	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117135620	I think, in respect of the work that has been started on a statement, that this is the process that must now be put in place. In fact, I do not understand why the question has not been answered. Why do we not answer the question of whether we support the recommendation made by the health authorities? Because this is the question time for the Prime Minister and not the question time for the President). Yes, but are we not in that situation when we are in the middle of a global pandemic in the middle of a global pandemic; we have 600,000 Danes who are at risk if they get covid-19; a pandemic that has shut down large parts of the world; and we have in Denmark some health authorities who recommend that mink be beaten down, that you should then in all parties reply to whether you support that recommendation? This would be done if the Prime Minister had shared knowledge with all parties).
ParlaMint-DK_20201117135702	No one else has the floor. And that is why it is a little difficult to ask a question at the end of a round of questions, i.e. when there is no answer available. The next question is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117135715	which cannot be in its own body of pure anticipation now that I have heard that the Prime Minister cares that questions will be answered. I'll look forward to it. To put it mildly, I do not think this is a discipline that the Prime Minister himself has always mastered. I think that the time of the last week in Danish politics has been very worrying. I sincerely believe that our people's rule, our democracy and the Danes' confidence in the people's rule cannot last for many weeks like the one we have just had, that is, the previous week. Let me just sum up some of the things we have witnessed in the past week's time. First of all, of course, there is a government that breaks the constitution by killing all mink and a whole profession without having the foundation in place, with a fingertips. The explanation is that there is not a single official, that there is not a single lawyer who warns of the breach of the constitution. But the FDA can tell you that since June you have known that you couldn't do this legally. The Minister for Food provides three different, conflicting explanations in 3 days. The Prime Minister, the Minister for Food and the Government as a whole are failing to rectify the illegal order. Yes, the Prime Minister says directly to a mink grower on TV that the mink grower cannot keep his mink there is no possibility of that even if the law is not in place. Yes, the Prime Minister says that the Prime Minister does not regret the illegal order because it was the right decision. Then I guess I have to understand that it doesn't matter that it's illegal. Yes, the Prime Minister refuses to answer both the Folketing and journalists to questions as to why the Prime Minister did not correct the illegal order. Then there is the illegality of tempo bonus. And then there is an army commander who, on social media, boasts almost of the efforts that are being made in the execution of the illegal killing of mink outside the infected zones. I think it's crazy. I also think it is crazy to hear the Prime Minister today almost neglect it as if it were a formality, a technicality. So my question is actually: why has the Prime Minister continued not to respect the fact that this requires a legal basis? Why do you keep breaking the law and not respecting the constitution?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117135917	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117135919	I can say with absolute 100% certainty that I am not neglecting anything at all. I have said from the outset that the fact that there is no legal basis is a mistake and that this has to be corrected. And now there's a statement. But to compare the situation we are in now with a mistake with something, I must understand, on the social media that tends towards fascism, is a violent claim and, in all respect, also a rather low level of the conversation that should be able to be in a people's government. A government makes mistakes, and that is regrettable. The government must make sure that this is corrected. But the fact that you claim anything in this direction, I just have to say, for the almost 20 years I have been in the Folketing, I have never been exposed to before.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117140005	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117140007	I have also seen someone claim that it tends to be fascism. I'm not one of them. I have given an interview today to Berlingske, where I say that if you are completely indifferent to the fact that there is a breach of the constitution, for some reason, such as public health, then that is the kind of trend that can lead to totalitarian societies; that can lead to fascism. I say explicitly in the interview that there is no way to say that the Prime Minister is a fascist or that Denmark is a fascist country. I would like to start by making that clear. But when the Prime Minister says here today that the Prime Minister does not neglect the constitutional breach, I do not understand why the Prime Minister on direct television says to a minkkeeper that he cannot keep his animals, that is, when there is no legal basis in place; when there is not yet a majority in place at Christiansborg. Then the Prime Minister signals that it is rather indifferent that a constitutional infringement has been committed, for it is the Prime Minister himself who decides whether minkkeepers are allowed to keep their animals; it does not depend on whether there is a legal basis and a majority in place in the Folketing. There is also a law professor who is criticizing. Then I think it is quite reasonable to criticise the Prime Minister for a lack of respect for the Constitution. Yes, the law professor tells Berlingske that what the Prime Minister has done is actually to continue with the crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117140108	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117140110	But now it is the case that you can answer for what you say, what you think and what you do. To say that I don't care about anything in all this is just not fair. That is not fair, because the government has not at any time, as it becomes known to us that there is no legal basis, has not put it forward. It was a mistake, and we take it seriously. And every government must do so if there is no legal basis for the policy one wants to implement. So if we are going to have a proper discussion of this, and we should have it in respect of the mink growers and, moreover, in respect for the entire Danish population, then we should deal with the fact that a mistake has been made, with respect, goodness and seriousness. We'll do that from the government. But we should also deal with what is the substance of this, and that is public health. Now I have tried to get some other parties to indicate whether they are behind the recommendation that comes from the health authorities. I would also like to ask the President of the Liberal Alliance about this, because, just as the Danes are entitled to a government that takes it seriously when a mistake has been made, one also needs to know whether the whole parliament supports the recommendations that come from the country's authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117140222	Thank you for that! Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117140225	I have no problem answering that question. I do not doubt the risk assessment by the health authorities, that is, that there are challenges, problems and risks associated with having mink breeding in Denmark in the future. There is nowhere to be said to recommend that every mink be put to death. There is nowhere to be said to recommend using the most far-reaching tool as quickly as possible. That is certainly not in any of the recommendations I have seen. Then it must be in some material that the Prime Minister does not share with the rest of the Folketing. So I don't have a problem answering that. And we do not believe that the most far-reaching tool should be used. You have to look at having a less far-reaching tool than the most far-reaching tool. The Prime Minister says you have to deal with this seriously and focus on the substance. It's good to remind all of us, including me for that matter. There is a tough rhetoric at the moment, but I do not think that the Prime Minister's own rhetoric and the Prime Minister's own words that you take this seriously, harmonize and are consistent with the Prime Minister's actions. Because even if you have known it was illegal, the Prime Minister has not effectively withdrawn the illegal order. That brings us back to the question which many of us were trying to answer last week and which I think Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen tried to get an answer to today. Now I am trying again: why does the Prime Minister not ensure that the illegal order is fully withdrawn, including from his own ministers?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117140335	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117140337	As I said last week, I am of course considering that, as a responsible minister, when you find out that there is no legal basis, you are of course making it right. However, I think that the discussion here is a good one, since it is also said that the tone is tough. Yeah, I promise it is. I think that creating the word fascism in this context is totally unreasonable, totally unreasonable, polemical and at a level that I do not think is a cooperative popular government. The cooperating government of the people in Denmark is all dependent on working the best possible, not least of course when we are in the midst of a global pandemic. And now the Folketing has the opportunity again. The restrictions will expire on Sunday and a decision will have to be taken as to whether or not to continue and what the restrictions will look like accordingly. And that is where I hope for the support of the entire Danish Parliament for the recommendations of the health authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117140438	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh of the Liberal Alliance. There are no more questions for the Prime Minister, so thank you to the Prime Minister. And then the question hour is over.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117140500	Today there are the following reviews: Michael Aastrup Jensen (V), Søren Espersen (DF), Martin Lidegaard (RV), Naser Khader (KF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB) and Henrik Dahl (LA): Motion for a resolution No. B 89 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on Taiwan's re-entry into World Health Assembly). Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Karsten Hønge (SF), Eva Flyvholm (EL) and Katarina Ammitzbøll (KF): Request no. F 19 (The Foreign Minister will explain the current sharpening political situation in Hong Kong and the profoundly worrying developments in China in relation to the violation of human rights and the repression of religious minorities, including what concrete initiatives Denmark and the EU have taken to support the democracy movement in Hong Kong, and what other demands will be made in the forthcoming negotiations with China in relation to respect for human rights in general?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Legal Affairs Committee has delivered: Report and recommendation on the Parliamentary Ombudsman's report for 2019. B88). The report and recommendation will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117140634	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117140703	Member of the Folketing Anne Sophie Callesen of the Radical Left applied for leave from 17 November 2020, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117140733	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the second deputy for the Radical Left in the Østjyllands Storkreds, Henrik Vinther, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 17 November 2020 on the occasion of Anne Sophie Callesen's leave. It should be noted that the first deputy has already taken place on the occasion of Morten Østergaard's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, with the agreement of the House, I shall consider the recommendation as adopted. It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117140817	I think we need to get the Chamber ready for the first reading. Before we begin, I should like to say that we have some technical difficulties up here at the platform, which means that the clock on the platform does not work. So I will try to help as much as possible now, by standing up, 30 seconds before the speaking time from the platform is finished, and in the brief remarks I rise ten seconds before, so that we can, as it were, be helped to keep to the speaking time. The debate is open, and the first rapporteur on the floor is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr Beazley. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117140924	Thank you for that, President. The fact is that we actually spend half of our waking hours on our work. For some of us, it may be even more. However, given the many hours involved, it is also clear that the road to good life is paved with a good working life. You have to be able to whistle when you go to work, and also when you go back home. Sometimes, however, things go wrong, and when the Danes experience that they are exposed to an accident at work or that their working life is wearing out, things go wrong. The good life is therefore not only about what we experience when we are at work, but also about what happens when we cannot go to work as usual. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that getting up in the morning and meeting at work are a major part of our identity. Colleagues' association, getting something out of hand, lifting tasks in groups contributes both to society, but also to the quality of life of the individual. Therefore, it is important that when you are sidelined with a work injury, you should not stay there longer than is necessary. With the proposal that we are dealing with here, we will not get a perfect solution to the complex system, but we will get shredded by a tree that has stood untouched for many years, a tree whose bureaucratic branches have been allowed to wrap themselves into one another. We'll do that with three handles. Firstly, we will speed up developments by ensuring a uniform way of reporting damage. Today, there are different reporting criteria and deadlines at stake when reporting a work injury either under the Work Damage Insurance Act or the Working Environment Act. With this law, all claims are reported to the same simple, transparent and transparent system, also called EASY, within a standard 14-day time limit. Secondly, we will ensure that the compensations correspond to the time in which we live. Today, life expectancy is calculated on a basis based on data and calculation methods from the 1970s. At least for the time being, that method must be replaced by a modern and dynamic model called the FSA's Benchmark for Lifetime Prerequisites, as it is called. The Ministry estimates that this is the most legitimate basis we have at this time. Thirdly and lastly, there will be some updates in the legislation to ensure that the legislation is up-to-date, accurate and that it is in line with EU legislation. Actually, it's time to tighten up here, and this is a good start. For social democracy, it is important that the rules become simple and transparent. The procedure must be quicker and for the benefit of all parties, and the compensation must, of course, be correct and fair. The changes contained in the proposal here are sensible and a step towards the change in the whole system of occupational injury on which we have started a series of meetings. That is why I can only conclude by saying that the Social Democrats support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117141245	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Left, Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117141252	Thank you for the floor. The reason I'm smiling right now is because there's been a song on the outside, and it just did, that I was lifted a little bit more. It's always nice when something new happens with the rhythms. Back to the bill: this bill is about the rules in the area of occupational injury being simple and up-to-date. Every year thousands of Danes are injured at their workplace because they have suffered an accident or become ill with harmful effects. Depending on the seriousness of the injury, they may be entitled to compensation from the occupational injury system, and in this respect it is essential that there is a proper framework for this. The draft law mainly contains two proposals. One proposal concerns the fact that in the field of occupational health and safety there are two different sets of rules and criteria for the notification of an accident at work. This is not appropriate and also contributes to ambiguity. This is why it is proposed to harmonise the rules on the notification of accidents at work under the Occupational Safety and Health Act and the Working Conditions Act. The Left believes that only one set of rules on the obligation of employers to report an accident occurring to an employee is appropriate. The second proposal concerns the use of G82 as a life-cycle basis when current replacements are converted into one-off replacements. The G82 index is based on outdated data on lifetime. Therefore, the government would like to replace G82 with the FSA's Benchmark for Lifetime Prerequisites. We agree that the mortality conditions of the G82 are not up-to-date. Life expectancy shall be used that is as close to the lifetime of the entitled citizen as possible. The law must be updated so that work claims are of equal value regardless of whether they are paid out on a regular basis or as capitalised lump sum payments. It is nice to have such a technical bill with some nice long words in it. However, we can see that organisations such as DA, FA, Insurance & Pension and KL etc. does not consider that the FSA's Benchmark will give a correct result in determining future capitalisation factors. This is due to the fact that the FSA's Benchmark is designed to ensure reserve provisions in pension companies and not for the calculation of current cash amounts. Therefore, we are pleased that the Ministry recognises that the FSA's Benchmark has not been developed specifically for occupational injuries and that the comments to the bill state that the Ministry of Employment will initiate a work to identify the possibility of developing alternatives to the FSA's Benchmark. The social partners and Insurance & Pension will be involved in the work. That is why the Left can support the proposal, but we believe that labour damage reform is urgently needed and we look forward to getting those treatments started.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117141601	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. We move on in the rapporteur's line to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117141610	Thank you for that, President. A lot has been said about this draft law on occupational injuries. The main element of this is, in fact, updating the capitalisation, payment of the compensation for occupational injury. What you can do today is either to opt for a one-off payment or a current payment, and it is built up in relation to lifetime years after retirement age. And in this context, I think it is very good that we get it updated, because the lifetime age has become longer, you live longer, and therefore it can go beyond the payout you should have when it is based on how life expectancy was in 1976. That is why innovation is a good thing. What I find difficult to understand in this context, as we are now working on a new legislation on occupational injury, is why the Minister will not have put it there so that we can get it all together and get a new legislation on occupational injury at the same time. We're in the middle of theme meetings, and of course it's a little stretching out, also because of this corona. However, it might have been more appropriate for it to be part of a whole new legislation on occupational injury. This is perhaps something that needs to be included in the new legislation on occupational injury. However, the Danish People's Party can support the proposal that is not near it because it is, after all, an improvement and a renewal of capitalisation, i.e. the payment of occupational injury. There are other things in it that have been discussed and that I will skip because there is no reason for it to be said more than once or twice. The Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117141806	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117141812	Thank you. You get a little distracted by the music outside. That is why I shall be brief. Other rapporteurs before me have examined the content of the draft law, which, after all, is in two main areas. One is the alignment of the rules in the field of occupational injury. We in the Radical Left are very pleased about that. The second part concerns an update of lifetime assumptions and a replacement of the G82 base with the FSA's Benchmark. Radical Left backs the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117141858	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party. Sir. Karsten Hønge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117141902	For many, working life is not just the place where you do your job, meet your colleagues and earn your salary. Unfortunately, too many people are being worn out, exposed to dangerous substances or affected by an accident at work, and when the accident hits or you can no longer do your job for other reasons, society must be ready. The current system of occupational injuries is rather incalculable with more clues, and it is then that it is very good to follow the many professional case workers in the trade union movement who save millions of kroner every year in compensations to members. Not only trade unionists, but we must all be grateful for the socially useful work which is also being done in this area in the trade union movement. The bill makes it slightly clearer and fairer, and SF supports it. Moreover, we look forward to the reform of the whole area of occupational injury.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117142016	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jette Gottlieb from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117142019	I speak on behalf of Mr. Christian Juhl, who cannot be present, and to reassure the Minister, I would like to start by saying that we support the proposal. And I think, by the way, that those down in the square think that we are dealing with L 102 and that is why there is so much attention. I would also like to say to the rapporteur of the Left that there are actually 60 000 occupational injuries in Danish jobs every year. It costs society and businesses a staggering sum of no less than 80 billion. kr. every year. These are figures that are worth remembering in the middle of negotiations on the budget law for 2021. In the view of Enhedslisten, much, much more must be invested in preventive work on working conditions if these figures are to be reduced, and this law does not change that. It merely alters the situation of people who have the bill, which means that the same rules and guidelines apply to the victim who has been searched for flex jobs as to the other injured persons when paying compensation for loss of professional capacity. It's fine. The fact that the factors of capitalisation change is also fine; it leads to higher compensation. In addition, a new clear notification deadline for accidents at work is introduced. That's good, too. The fact that doctors and dentists are required to report both clear and presumed cases of occupational diseases is also a good thing. The fact that both the victim and a necessary companion have the right to pay transport costs and to lose earnings in medical examinations and medical treatment in connection with the occupational injury is fine. The fact that accident insurance companies and occupational insurance in the labour market have the opportunity to make claims in the case of product liability is a good thing. In the view of Enhedslisten, there are a number of improvements to the bill, without affecting the conditions of people who have suffered occupational injuries, and therefore the Enhedslisten votes for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117142215	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservatives, Mr. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117142221	The living conditions are about being able to calculate the expected average life expectancy of people who have to have occupational injury compensation up to retirement age, but the FSA's Benchmark is counting on the lifespan after retirement age, and these are two completely different things. In the Conservative People's Party, we agree that the current G82 base is outdated, but replacing it with another which is not true either is not a very good solution. We are aware that Insurance & Pension has informed the Ministry of Employment that if they can get access to actual data from the Labour Market Insurance and ATP, they will be able to calculate a precise and fair replacement basis instead. Since we do not think it is realistic to gain agreement to postpone that part of the bill in order to obtain a more accurate calculation model, as it will take several months to do so, we can live with the proposed solution, for it says in the legislative notes that the Ministry of Employment will start work to uncover the possibility of developing alternatives to the FSA's Benchmark. The social partners and Insurance & Pension will be involved in the work. We think that's really fine. It is the clear expectation of the Conservative People's Party that this work will be completed and ready to be addressed next time the Work Damage Act is revised. It is also positive that the date of entry into force of the amendments has been set at July 2022, as otherwise it could create significant problems for a highly critical renewal of the IT system of the Labour Market Insurance. All in all, in the Conservative People's Party, we can support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117142417	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117142422	Sometimes you get a little amazed that it doesn't happen automatically, that you look at these laws and update them. I think it came as a surprise to many in connection with this epidemic law, which many of us are not experts in when it came out that it had not been updated for many years. And now we have another law where there are some elements that have not been updated for a very long time. This is certainly an area in which I personally will start to dive and say, "Whoa, why doesn't this happen automatically?" What's going on here? But now some changes are being made that can be sensible. I also hear both the Conservative People's Party and the Left say that there is little, with the model that is now being chosen, which we should perhaps have looked at, and the Ministry has said that they will also look at those models. So let us look at whether, in committee work, we may not be able to get even closer to setting deadlines and looking at exactly what we are looking at. But basically we are in favour of taking it up now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117142526	Thank you. No more rapporteurs have asked to speak, so we are giving the floor to the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117142534	Thank you to the rapporteurs for a good discussion and for the comments on the draft law here. It is the Government's ambition that the rules of the workplace damage area should be simple and clear. It must be easier for employers to report accidents at work and, ultimately, it will also have a positive effect on employees. With this bill, we are setting out to make the rules simpler, so that in future employers will only have to deal with one set of rules. Today there are different rules for the notification of an accident at work, depending on whether the notification is to be made under the Work Damage Insurance Act or the Working Conditions Act, and this is not appropriate. The government also has an ambition that all citizens will be compensated on an up-to-date and fair basis of assessment if you are so unlucky to be injured in your work. One must be able to expect that the value of one's compensation is correct when one as a citizen is in the unhappy situation of having lost all or part of one's ability to work after an occupational injury. The authorities are currently using assumptions which are not up-to-date when converting an ongoing payment of compensation into a one-off payment. This means that injured persons are paid less compensation than they would otherwise if the calculation were based on how long we live today. That is why I am pleased that with the bill we are now putting in place to update the outdated lifetime basis with the FSA's Benchmark for Life expectancy. Benchmark market is the most true basis of life that exists today. It is also a basis that insurance companies already use to a large extent when they allocate money to future payments of current compensations. By replacing the lifetime basis, we ensure that one-off replacements are calculated on a more correct basis, and we do so because each year the benchmark is updated in line with the evolution of the average lifetime and takes future life into account for improvement. This is particularly important for younger injured persons because their lifetime will evolve during the period to be covered by the single-use replacement. With the bill, the government also proposes a few technical changes that update, simplify and clarify the provisions of the law. Among other things: I would like to say a few words about the Commission's proposal for a regulation. The provision means that occupational injury insurance companies and self-insured entities may have the cost of occupational injury compensation covered by manufacturers and intermediaries where the occupational injury is due to a defective product. In this way, the legislation is adjusted to comply with the EU product directive, but without having consequences for injured people. With these words, I look forward to constructive work in the Employment Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117142811	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the Minister for Employment. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117142834	The debate is open, and the first to speak is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Leif Lahn Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117142851	Thank you. It is always important to have a simple, effective and targeted employment effort so that we ensure that as many people enter the labour market as possible and preferably for as long as possible. It is therefore also important that the employment effort is effective, simple and, above all, targeted at the individual and also targeted at what is needed by labour. The more we get trained, the more we get to bite into the labour market, the better it is for the individual, for the companies, and not least for our country. In the time we are in now, when we are being challenged by higher unemployment due to corona, it is even more important than before. That is why I am very pleased that we have a government that has just focused on this and that before summer we made some broad agreements where we have spent a great deal of money to strengthen the qualification. Here I can, among other things. mention the possibility of obtaining an education of 110%. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission is not in a position to take a decision on this matter. Today we have a proposal which was also agreed before the summer in the context of the same agreement, together with other proposals that make employment efforts simpler and more effective. We ensure that you can look for jobs across regional areas and take the courses that are on the positive list there and not necessarily in the regional area in which you live. After all, we all know that the labour market does not stop at a local or regional border, and that is why it is right and proper that we also have the opportunity to get the courses needed if we go across the regional border to get a job. If you have an employer's declaration in your hand that will give you a job, if and when you have the courses that are necessary, the opportunity will also be there for it. With these other proposals, we target, simplify and extend the target group for the unemployed who can receive vocational training courses. Here we are giving the job centres the opportunity to get more of their unemployed people up-qualified and further into the labour market. At the same time, we also propose some regulatory simplifications. If we are to get on with vocational training soon, we do not think it is common sense that young people and the job centre are spending time getting young people into work and that companies are spending time examining applications from people who are going to have to stop again and enter training soon. Therefore, that group must have less effort, like those on the way to work, at least six weeks before the start of the training. It is just to mention some of the proposals contained in the draft law which, overall, will provide better employment efforts and will allow more people to get a course and a greater opportunity to get a job. We should not just turn the unemployed at the door when they enter the job centre; we must make sure that they bite their way into the labour market. We must always ensure good opportunities for upskilling and always be ready to simplify the employment system for the benefit of the unemployed. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117143141	Thank you for that to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117143148	Thank you. There is no doubt that the corona crisis is hard for the working Dane, both for the thousands of people who are affected by unemployment due to the crisis, but also for the very many people who are on the edge of the labour market and who now have even longer way to become part of the working community. We must help them; we must provide them with the best framework in order to acquire new competences and be able to make themselves attractive to new industries and job opportunities. Therefore, with this bill we make it simpler for the unemployed to be able to receive vocational training courses where, among other things, we... bring together the five existing schemes for short-term vocational training courses into one regional pool. And we also significantly strengthen the effort with almost doubling the pool for short business courses. In the Left, we are particularly pleased that we are in the future ensuring that if there is an employer saying that he would like to hire a vacant person if the unemployed person gets a specific course, then of course the unemployed person must have that course. I also note that the Socialist rapporteur highlights this as a very good part of such an agreement. Similarly, it has been important for the Left that one's zip code does not limit the possibility of the right upskilling. Therefore, we are also very pleased that if a course is not offered in one's regional area but is offered in the neighbouring area, then of course you should be able to go to the neighbouring region and get that course. In the Left, we are pleased that we are now improving and simplifying the area, and that is why we support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117143341	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117143351	Thank you. This proposal is, as has been said, an agreement between the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left and the Conservative People's Party. We concluded the agreement to strengthen qualification on 17 June 2020. This then means that there are many more people who can be allowed to get a course, and whatever type of unemployment there is, they can get a course if it is a course that is targeted a job based on the positive list in the region where you now live. The positive list may differ slightly from region to region. That is why, of course, efforts must also be made to help unemployed people in jobs, and this has become even more topical since the corona crisis here, because then more people may need to be trained so that they can move forward in their lives on the labour market. That's a really good thing. This also means that there is someone in the room who does not have to participate in the right and duty offers, and it is clear that if they go to the room, they should of course not run around in the right and duty offers. Everything else equal, I think, is a very good proposal. After all, it also provides for clarification of the change in the rules on wage subsidies for newly trained people with disabilities, so the same rules will apply before moving the rules in 2019. There are a number of clarifications in the draft law, but, as I said, the main element in providing the unemployed with the skills they need and which can give them a job and a course that comes from the positive list, of which there is a lack of skilled labour in the various regions. It can hardly go too fast to get started helping those who are unemployed to get started on an education. The Danish People's Party naturally supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117143627	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117143631	Thank you. This bill, L 79, translates some parts of the agreement on strengthened qualification from June of this year, in which the Radical Left was involved. We were because it is a very good agreement with a focus on helping those citizens who, especially in these times, have lost their jobs and who have difficulty finding a new one. We must make it possible and make it easier for the unemployed to acquire exactly the qualifications needed to return to work, and we do so with this bill. The Radical Left supports this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117143713	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. Then it is the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117143718	Some jobs go missing, others go to. The future will give us more jobs that require employees with more and more qualifications than those they have today. We just have to face up to the fact that there will be fewer jobs for unskilled people, but there will be greater demand for skilled workers and people with medium-term training. We must therefore strengthen and simplify access to short-term vocational training courses. Job centres are being given new tools to get the unemployed going, both faster and with better content and with a more relevant geographical look. Better education for more is heart blood for SF. Away with the trip wires, forward with the escalators, now is the time to lift more so that they will have a fair chance at the jobs of the future. This is good for the individual employee, who has more choice and is not so bound to the individual employer. The opportunities for a more interesting working life and for a higher salary are greater when you have an education. It is good for companies to have top-qualified employees so that they become more flexible and can do better in the competition for tasks. It is also good for society to have a well-educated population and an efficient business environment. From the SF's point of view, we would have liked to go much further along the road we are taking here, but the draft law is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117143907	Thank you. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117143911	Yeah, that's my cue. This is a legislative proposal that is a push in the right direction. The Enhedslisten is in favour of the bill, which improves conditions for the unemployed and the disabled, and in particular we welcome the proposals for extending the less intensive approach to people who have to start an ordinary full-time education within the next 6 weeks. Exemption from legal and compulsory offers under the Employment Act, from sanctions and from reading, writing and arithmetic tests, etc. For young people with a continuing right to an activity supplement, the extension of the target group for short-term vocational training courses and courses makes sense! In particular, we are very positive about this, in other words to extend the target group, which can be offered these courses, including people on sickness benefits and on job clearance. The Minister should, however, be aware that many municipalities will see that if a sick worker can cope with attending courses, the person concerned is no longer unfit for work and thus is not entitled to either sickness benefit or job clearance. Therefore, the Minister should make sure that this will not be a problem, by sharp guidance to the municipalities on that issue. The Enhedslisten considers it very useful that, as a sick worker, training and courses can be started if you have no work to return to after the end of sick leave and that you should not wait until the sick person has been transferred to unemployment. There should be a better interaction between the offer of courses for sickness benefit recipients and those in job clearance when switching to cash benefits in the event of medical notification. This means that the sick person should be able to start a course, if necessary part-time, on sickness benefit and continue with this course, even if the person concerned is on the way to recovery and is transferred to unemployment benefit. And then I would like to ask the Minister directly whether he will help to ensure that there will be no practical or bureaucratic problems with it. The Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117144125	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117144130	The Conservative People's Party would particularly like to highlight the element of the political agreement to bring together, strengthen and simplify arrangements for short-term vocational training courses. Simplifications are achieved by bringing together different schemes that allow both the unemployed and the employees in the job centres to better understand the different skills opportunities. In addition, there is an important signal that job-created qualification should apply to all unemployed persons, whether they are beneficiaries of unemployment benefits or whether they are unemployed cash benefits recipients. It is not the benefit that must determine the effort. Finally, we would like to emphasise that it can support mobility in the labour market through the proposal to use positive lists across the RAR area, for example courses for unemployed highly educated people in Copenhagen targeted jobs in companies in, for example. Kalundborg. The Conservative People's Party supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117144234	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117144238	Thank you. It's such a patchwork of different things. We were not in the agreement, but that is why we should not fail to praise when we think that there are positive elements in this, which we believe there are both about the disabled and about the living room and about that you lift up under the requirements that are when you are on your way to a new education. There's a whole series of elements that we think are positive in this. But sometimes when I look at these suggestions, I get this picture that there are some on one end taking dirt out of a hole, and then there are some on the other end putting it in. We simply have to stop imposing new taxes and new taxes on business from in here, while at the same time we have a good active employment effort. It's counterproductive. So my call must be: let's keep up with these taxes and these taxes, because they do that, that we have to spend even more money on an employment effort than is necessary. We could create even greater demand in the business world if we did not impose taxes on them at the same time. So it just needs to be a little call. Maybe I should address it more to the Minister for Finance, but I'll keep that in mind next time I meet him. However, I think it is a little counterproductive that we spend many millions on employment efforts, while raising taxes and taxes. It just doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117144356	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. Then it's the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117144410	Thank you. You have gradually become quite fond of that rhythm in the background. You can feel your shoulders starting to move. First of all, thank you for the treatment that the draft law has received here today. As several speakers have said, the bill implements the last parts of the strengthened qualification agreement, which the government concluded with a large number of parties, the Left, the Danish People's Party, Radical and Conservative, as well as the agreement on the extraordinary increase of the unemployed, which the government entered into with the Left, the Danish People's Party, Radical, the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten. After all, all this requires legislative changes, and the intention is that the legislative changes will enter into force on 1 January, after both agreements were concluded in June 2020. With the agreements, we have ensured much better opportunities for upgrading the unemployed in a situation where the labour market is affected by the corona crisis and where there are significant shifts in labour demand from industry to industry. The enhanced skills opportunities will therefore benefit both unemployed citizens, Danish companies and Danish society as a whole. I'm incredibly proud and happy about that. This will not least help the affected areas, which are particularly severely affected by restrictions, including North Jutland and the metropolitan area. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight some key elements of the draft law. Firstly, we are strengthening and simplifying the possibilities offered by the draft law for short-term vocational training courses. With effect from 1 January 2021, there will thus be one strengthened regional training pool, which will be extended to all target groups in the Act on Active Employment. This is done by bringing together five existing schemes for short vocational training courses under the regional training pool. This simplifies the administration while allowing more unemployed people access to this type of qualification. In addition, the use of the regional positive lists linked to the pool is extended so that the unemployed can also be offered courses on the positive lists from the adjacent RAR areas. This ensures a more flexible use of the positive lists for both case managers and citizens. In addition, it will be possible for the unemployed to be offered short vocational courses within the pool if an employer's declaration of subsequent employment can be presented. Unemployed persons will also be entitled, as agreed, to one short vocational course in 2021 if there is an employer's declaration of subsequent employment, which is set at the level of notice. With the agreement, we have also strengthened the regional education pool financially with more funds in both 2020 and 2021. Secondly, I would like to point out that the draft law also extends the rules on less intensive work to those who have to start ordinary education. This will mean that job centres and cashiers will have to spend fewer resources on people who are still on their way in full-time study on ordinary terms. Thirdly, the draft law contains a number of other amendments, adjustments and clarifications which do not follow from the June agreements but which, among other things, include: simplify and clarify the regulatory framework. This is true, for example. the application of the rules applicable to beneficiaries of training and transitional benefits who participate in a specially organized youth training course, so that these young people are in training, among other things. shall be exempt from continuous right and obligation offers. The bill will enter into force on 1 January 2021. However, the proposal for less intensive efforts will not enter into force until 15 March 2021 for the necessary IT development in the Agency for Labour Market and Recruitment, in the cashiers and in the job centres. And just to reply briefly to Mrs Jette Gottlieb's question, I would like to say that the government has only the very clear interest, of course, to make this as simple and unbureaucratic as possible. Again, I would like to thank you for the consideration of the draft law, and I look forward to continued good committee consideration. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117144835	Thank you very much to the Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is over. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117144909	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Lars Aslan Rasmussen from the Social Democratic Party. He can then on his way up here practice the drum rhythms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117144916	Thank you, President. Since the government took office, we have been dragged into work when it comes to the area of equality. We have among other things. implemented a new consent law, presented better conditions to lgbti people and launched an action against violations of the defense, to name but a few things. With the bill we are discussing here today, it is another great day for equality. It aims to improve maternity conditions for self-employed people, thereby creating greater motivation for more women to become self-employed. Specifically, self-employed people will in future be covered by Barsel.dk on an equal footing with private employers. This means that, in addition to maternity benefit, self-employed persons can receive compensation from the scheme when they are on leave. This is true, for example. to cover the flat-rate costs. Today, self-employed people can get approx. 19,000 kroner. in maternity allowance, but with the bill an additional DKK 12,000 can be added. In addition, this means that a total of up to DKr 31 000 can be paid out. It comes, for example. many hairdressers for good, which normally only opens their own salon after they have had the children they want. Barsel.dk is a common compensation scheme to which all private employers pay if they are not part of a contractual compensation scheme. Employers may be reimbursed to cover the wage costs of maternity workers. The proposal envisages that self-employed persons should pay up to the scheme as from October 2021, but receive compensation as from April 2021. This is a good case and the Social Democratic Party can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117145050	Thank you, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117145058	Thank you for the floor, President. With this proposal, self-employed people will be covered by Barsel.dk on the same terms as private employers, and in this way, in addition to maternity benefit, self-employed people can receive compensation from the scheme when they go on maternity leave. This gives the self-employed greater financial security while on leave. It is, of course, a basic good thing to improve maternity opportunities for self-employed people; in particular, from the point of view of equality, that makes sense. Because we know that for many Danes it is a big step to jump out as self-employed. Saying good - bye to the safe life of an employee and suddenly standing on his own feet can be overwhelming and incalculable. And that decision is probably even harder to make if you, as a woman, are nervous about whether the economy can be linked while you are on maternity leave. That is why it is basically good to take a step so that more women or men will hopefully have the courage to jump out as entrepreneurs. But it is not only women or men who need us to improve maternity opportunities for self-employed people. It must be attractive to jump out as a self-employed person or self-employed person. And that's the positive part of this proposal. But there's a reverse of the medal. There is also one, we think, bad element, namely funding. The Left was not invited to the negotiations when the government called for discussions on this proposal. After all, it has run exclusively with the parties that were included in the Finance Act, the Financial Law Agreement for 2020. I have certainly not seen, and we have not seen, any invitation to participate in the discussion of this proposal. That is why the funding is uneasy for us too, because we stand firm on our tax freezes. Danes, businesses and entrepreneurs need to be assured that they will not be burdened with new taxes and taxes overnight. And even though the extra tax in this proposal is not the world's largest, the bill still runs up. After all, since the elections, the government has implemented or proposed new taxes no less than 23 times and the total bill amounts to more than 13 billion. kr. And it is not a good cure when we are in the midst of a serious economic situation: 25 000 more unemployed, a historic fall in GDP, and a great many people have unfortunately also gone bankrupt with their business. So, to sum up, the Left supports the intention behind the proposal, but we are opposed to funding, which we did not have the opportunity to influence, since we were not invited to the negotiations on this agreement. That is why we look forward to the committee reading, but as it is now, we will vote yellow when we come to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117145417	There is a brief comment from Mrs Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117145421	Thank you. I can be annoyed that the Left will not support this proposal when the rapporteur talks about just how good it is for equality and how important it is to have more women entrepreneurs. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not think it is very reasonable for the scheme to be carried out in exactly the same way as when you have employees in a company where you pay in to the employees at Barsel.dk, which is what you will do in future as well. Is it not a very reasonable arrangement, or how else would the rapporteur like us to link the system together?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117145450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117145451	We do not think that the time has come to raise taxes and levies. They've been plentifully lifted under this government, and we don't think that's the way forward. That's the short answer. With regard to the answer to the second question, I think it was the Conservatives who put forward a proposal in the spring similar to this one, but which had a different funding. As far as I remember, it was not dealt with, but there was funding from the community, that is, from our common room for manoeuvre, to ensure that the self-employed were given a maternity scheme. It was a more inexpensive financing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117145533	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117145534	Okay, so I have to understand that the Left would like us to find it from the room. However, I do not think the rapporteur's view is that the system today is such that you pay this money in to your employees and not to yourself. Is it not very good that you now also pay for yourself, so you have the same rights as the employees you pay for each year? Now you just pay for one more: yourself, so you are also included in the scheme. That is a good thing, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117145557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117145558	That is where we fundamentally disagree. Well, we don't want to raise taxes anymore in this country. We stand firm on our tax stop. Especially in the current situation, when we look out the window, we see 25,000 more unemployed, that bnp has fallen historically a lot, and that we are in a historic crisis, both in terms of health but also in terms of economics, then the answer is not to raise taxes further. So we simply cannot be a part of that funding. But we agree with the intention, namely to provide better opportunities, for example. to be an entrepreneur and to have a family and thus also to go on maternity leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117145635	There is a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117145639	Over time, I think we have had to listen to many excuses for the absence of time for equality, and there are a lot of excuses for the fact that there is no time to take the important steps so that we can go further. If it was the case that the pay difference was to make it possible to take a holiday for the remaining days, women could actually take a holiday for the rest of the year because of the pay gap that exists. I would like to hear one concrete proposal from the Left on what you are going to do to strengthen equal Frankly, I think that there is too much talk and that there are too many excuses for us to achieve equality. So I would like to hear what the rapporteur will do to ensure equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117145728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117145729	Then I do not think the rapporteur heard my speech. We are, in fact, in agreement with the intention of this proposal; it is an excellent and good proposal that can help ensure that women entrepreneurs in particular, I think, also want to become entrepreneurs and thus also take maternity leave if they want to start a family. That is an excellent proposal. What we cannot live with is funding. We do not want, and it is quite obvious, unlike the Enhedslisten, simply to screw the tax button, and especially not in the situation we are in now, because there is no time at all for us to increase the burden for self-employed people in this country, and that is why we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117145813	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117145814	Of course, it is important that, during the corona crisis too, we can ensure that there is support for the self-employed, but we often hear that there are other reasons why there is simply no time for equality. Should I understand that the rapporteur will then table an amendment to this proposal that funding should come from the scope, or what exactly is the rapporteur going to do? There was a reference to another party that has put forward a proposal but no action, so I would like to hear what the rapporteur will do to put action behind the fine words in order to actually ensure a move in relation to equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117145849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117145850	We support the intentions of this proposal. What we do not support is funding and we will not change our position on our tax freezes. The way in which it could be financed here is, of course, to find funds on the financial laws we make here in the Folketing, and it may be the room for manoeuvre, which is a possible financing of the proposal, but the answer is not to send an additional bill to the many, many thousands, that is, over 80 000 self-employed people in this country who have very, very difficult to get things together at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117145927	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117145930	Thank you. I started to smile a little when the rapporteur started his speech, because it actually sounded like he was going to say that the Left supported this proposal. It annoys me that the conclusion will then be a yellow voice. The rapporteur is talking about the current situation in the wake of the corona crisis. Would the rapporteur not agree with me that being an entrepreneur and starting up one's own business is precisely something that contributes to growth, prosperity and jobs, which are, of course, something we need in the current situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117150011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117150012	I fully agree with that, but the answer is not to increase taxes and charges to support more people wanting to jump out as self-employed or as entrepreneurs. And then, according to the rules, it is already the case today that you can sort of combine your maternity leave with still being active in your business. And that is perhaps the most important thing at all, because I think there are very, very few people who are doing their business, who want to be away from it for six months.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117150044	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117150045	What is the rapporteur's position on the fact that there is in fact a broad desire among women and men who go with an entrepreneur in the stomach to have this particular access to maternity leave, so that you can both start a family and start a business?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117150106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117150107	However, it is important to say that there is, of course, the possibility of receiving maternity benefit. What we are talking about is additional compensation on top of the maternity allowance, and that is where we support the intentions of the proposal. What we cannot support is funding, because we do not believe that it is time to send an extra bill to our many thousands of self-employed people who work hard every day out there. And it is true that the conciliation parties behind this proposal have found it possible to do so, and we are very much in disagreement with that. On the left, we stand firm on our tax stop.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117150142	The paper inspires another brief comment. Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117150148	Thank you. I'm trying to follow up on Mrs. Samira Nawa's question. I would like to ask the rapporteur because the rapporteur keeps on saying that the rapporteur supports the intention of the proposal, whether one could not imagine that by getting more women to be self-employed, it actually gave net positive support to our economy, that is, when you get even more people to start up their own?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117150214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117150215	I think the rapporteur is quite right about that. But that is not the answer to the thousands of self-employed whom the rapporteur's party is now going to send a bill to the small masters of crafts around, self-employed in different sectors, who can now look forward to a bill, because the rapporteur's party considers that it is not important to create tax security; that you can simply send a bill, and then you can finance a proposal like this. That is where the waters separate for the Left and the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117150248	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117150249	If the rapporteur thinks that, after all, it is in fact positive that there are more women who will become self-employed, then it should also be a plus when we count it all together. But when the rapporteur supports the intention, can the rapporteur not tell us what the Left is going to do instead, so that the Left can be moved from yellow to green?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117150306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117150307	If the government and the rapporteur had wanted to invite us to negotiations, we might have agreed on a financing model in which the Left could see itself. But that's not what's going on. What lies is an extra tax on our self-employed, and that is certainly not the time. In other words, sometimes one would think that the reality has not fully realised social democracy when they just keep raising taxes and taxes. I think we have reached the point. 23 in the proposal on tax increases, and so the Left is standing by, and I think the self-employed are doing so too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117150347	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. There are no more brief comments in this round. Welcome to sir. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117150357	Thank you for that, President. This agreement on maternity compensation is part of the former Finance Act between the Government, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. And I will follow up on what the former rapporteur, Mr. Hans Andersen, said that it was not something that we were invited to be in the meeting, so it might well be that we could have found a better solution in our opinion; it is not certain that it is in the government's opinion that it could have been a better solution. What lies in it is that self-employed people today of course have the right to receive ordinary maternity benefits, and with this proposal you will then compensate self-employed people who have an income of about DKK 228 000. Before interest, I think it's yes, 228,996 kr. before interest is paid with a higher compensation. That means that if you only get 228,000 kroner. Before interest is paid, the compensation cannot be taken into account. There is a sharp dividing line: it is only if you are above the 228,000 you can benefit from that compensation. This is one of the things that we in the Danish People's Party think is unfair, but of course it is based on what the ordinary maternity allowance is like. But I don't know why the dividing line should be right there. I also think that it could have been done in a different way. You could, for example. have said to the small self-employed entrepreneurs: if you go on maternity leave, the government gives you an extra tax credit in the time you are on maternity leave. It might be that it should last for a few years to come that you didn't have to get it all at once. An additional tax credit could be granted to take maternity leave instead of compensation, so that, in addition to the ordinary maternity allowance, a tax credit could be granted. After all, a good effort is being made for Denmark by having children. That's one of the things many people miss, that is, more kids come in, and that's also why you're looking at this maternity thing. It is to get more people to say that they can be self-employed and have children anyway. I fully agree with that, and the Danish People's Party has absolutely nothing against self-employed people who have children on the contrary, it is only a good thing. Nor do we object to them being compensated for maternity benefit when they have children; that is also quite fair. But the question is whether it is done in the right way, and we are far from sure it is. We would like to look at it in a different way. One of the proposals is, as I say, to give the self-employed a tax credit in addition to maternity benefit. But as it is here, the Danish People's Party is probably leaning towards our abstention. There are many good intentions in the proposal, there is no doubt about that. The intention of this is, I am sure, full of hearts from those who have been sitting and negotiating this. The intention is very good, as I said in the Danish People's Party, but that doesn't mean that you think it's the right way it's been done, and that's where we get off. But we can warmly support the intentions in it and that the self-employed should of course be allowed to have maternity leave, but that is perhaps not the way we wanted it in the Danish People's Party. That is why we are now leaning towards yellow, but we must, of course, have a debate before the vote on what it will look like at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117150759	There is a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117150802	Thank you. After all, we will soon have to look at the rules on maternity because of the regulation from the European Union, so I would like to know whether the rapporteur will be involved in the debate on the basis of, among other things, the rules on maternity leave. some of the criticisms that the rapporteur makes about whether we cannot improve the rules and the possibilities for maternity leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117150822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117150823	I just wanted to apologize and say that I'm having a hard time hearing because of the noise that's out there in the Palace Square. It's really annoying, and I'm having trouble hearing it, so I didn't quite get what Mrs Victoria Velasquez said. May she repeat?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117150837	Under the special circumstances, we make an exception and allow the questioner to ask again. Bent Bøgsted Can the questioner perhaps speak a little louder?).
ParlaMint-DK_20201117150845	I'd love to. Bent Bøgsted Thank you). Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I welcome some of the criticisms raised by the rapporteur. Now, of course, we have to look at the rules on maternity because of the future regulation of the European Union, and in this respect I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the Danish People's Party will raise some of these particular criticisms, that is, when we look at the rules on maternity and whether the rapporteur will help to change them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117150911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117150912	Well, if we get an invitation to some negotiations from the government, as to whether we want to help change something, then of course we always come up; that is clear. However, this requires an invitation from the government, and it did not do so here in the context of the financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117150928	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117150929	I am pleased that the rapporteur appreciates and appreciates the intentions of this draft law. I am sorry that the conclusion is not that you support it. But then I would like to ask: what is the next concrete action the Danish People's Party is going to take to strengthen equality in the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117150950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117150953	You ask what the Danish People's Party has done and will do for it. One of the most important things about maternity, as the Danish People's Party has done, is the maternity leave we have today, which was that the father and mother should be treated equally, so that families could decide for themselves who should be given maternity leave and when they should be given maternity leave. It was back in 2002 that it was made. I even think it was during one of my first rapporteurs that I was up and saying a little 'no' to a proposal from the then government. But the maternity leave we have, where parents can decide for themselves who is to have maternity leave, is, after all, the invention of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117151049	That's all in this round for Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Welcome to Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117151054	Thank you very much. One gets so depressed by the speeches of the two previous rapporteurs, so I will now try to contribute a little to the good mood. Because this day, I've been looking forward to a lot. When I read the hearing answers to the bill, I particularly noticed one reply: "Thank you! ▪ It was written with a font size in the vicinity of 72. It was written by SME Denmark, but in the Radical Left we fully share that enthusiasm. For the new maternity scheme for self-employed people is an important victory for equality in Denmark. It paves the way for more women to choose to become entrepreneurs, but also for male entrepreneurs to go on maternity leave and spend time with their very young children. Women in particular have clearly refrained from jumping into entrepreneurship. In order to return to SME Denmark, they stress that only 8% of SMEs are SMEs. women under 35 years of age, 27 per cent of whom are start-ups. is formed by men in the same age group. If women had formed as many companies as men, 8,000 more companies would have been founded in 2017. Entrepreneurship is therefore not primarily reserved for men, although the figures could easily give that impression. On the contrary, it is essential that we make an active effort to combat this imbalance. It is in fact for the same purpose as when I discuss diversity in management with my fellow rapporteurs in the field of equality: it is about getting all talents into play. We simply cannot afford to systematically cut off a group from setting up a business. It is precisely entrepreneurial entrepreneurs who contribute greatly to the growth and welfare of society and who create export successes that send Danish goods and knowledge out into the world. This requires politically creating the framework for a labour market that really puts all talents at risk so that young women with both entrepreneur and baby in the stomach can start a business and start a family. Radical Left looks forward to voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117151320	Thank you very much to Mrs Samira Nawa. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Astrid Carøe from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117151330	Thank you. Like the previous rapporteur, I am very pleased with this proposal: that self-employed people should now be able to get on maternity leave more easily and on the same terms as their employees, i.e. those to whom they are already paying into the scheme. That's really good. This is good for equality, both because it will provide more opportunities for women who want to start their own business and start a family, and because it gives better opportunities for male self-employed people to take more maternity leave and to be part of their children's early days. That's really good. Because when we hear from, for example... an independent hairdresser, that she was almost turning the key during her last maternity leave and considering whether she should have more children now, then it is serious. Because we want both more entrepreneurs and to remove the barrier, which means that people do not have children. We are very pleased that this scheme succeeded in getting it in place, so that it is largely the same people who pay for it, who can also make use of it. That was the problem with the previous regime and the reason why the previous government abolished it again. We were sorry about that back then. We were annoyed that the system was being abolished instead of correcting the problems that existed. This gave rise to unnecessary uncertainty for the individual self-employed and has been strongly criticised by the sectoral organisation of small and medium-sized enterprises. Moreover, they are also happy with this scheme we have now found and of course hope that it will be stable so that the self-employed can throw away the pills and know that there is a good maternity compensation in the coming years too. One small thing we regret is that we could not get the combinators, who are both employees and freelancers, into the scheme. However, this is because they are generally not covered by the maternity benefit rules. So we in the SF would like to look at them in the future so that they can eventually be included in the scheme. All in all, we in the SF therefore support the proposal and think that it is a very good day for equality today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117151541	There are no brief comments to Mrs Astrid Carøe. I would like to welcome Mrs Victoria Velasquez from the Enhedslisten-De Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117151552	I have been looking forward very much to this bill, because very often we talk about equality, and we applaud Denmark as a pioneer when it comes to equality, but we are just not in the goal. And very often it keeps on talking. There are good campaigns, for example. the fact that women could go on holiday for the rest of the year because the pay gap is as large as it is. We are talking about the fact that we want more women entrepreneurs and all these parts, but unfortunately it is rare that there is action behind the words. Now this bill is doing that, so I think it's amazing. In addition, some of what is also good is that we are talking about extending a right. It is therefore an opportunity to create better conditions for young people who want to become self-employed and entrepreneurs because they know that there are better opportunities if they get a small but also in terms of equality. So I would like to commend the fact that there was support for us to include this in the Finance Act. Then I would also like to acknowledge the government for something. I have to admit that when it was to be postponed because of the corona crisis, I actually suffered a little stomachache, because I was afraid that we would lose a lot of the people we had put in the prospect that there would now be a hand-out. But the fact that per. I think it is very important and very good that the government was in favour of the idea that it should of course be retroactive. For this subject is simply too important for anything else. Then there are some details where we are still looking at how we can do better. There is, of course, a range of great ways to be independent, and we have still not quite found the solution to the so-called combinators, but I am sure we will, and we have at least taken a very good step in the right direction. So I thank you for that and, of course, we warmly support the adoption of this bill. Thank you, and thank you very much for your cooperation with the other relevant rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117151801	You're welcome. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117151808	Thank you, President. Starting up your own business is usually the culmination of a long process of idea development, processing of the concept and product and, above all, saving to have the necessary initial capital. These are many elements that need to be taken up in a higher unit when you are a self-employed person. It is not only during the start-up phase that can be paved with challenges and bureaucracy. The success of one's business on the market is not always a matter of course, and time, economy and resources are essential prerequisites for the success of this foothold. We are very much in favour of strengthening women's incentives to become self-employed. It is good for equality, it is good for the economy. And thank God it's going the right way too. But to demand that self-employed workers be charged a contribution to the maternity compensation scheme is another tax that is imposed on Danes in employment, which has even invented their own position. They must be rewarded and not burdened with another tax. The Conservative People's Party does not believe that the way forward to make more people choose to become self-employed is by imposing more taxes. We Conservatives have previously proposed a similar proposal, but with the very central difference in relation to the government's proposals, that funding is available in the room for manoeuvre rather than as another tax. We think the proposal is excellent, but we have a problem with funding. We would then like to discuss the funding, and that is why we do not want to state what we are voting at this stage, because we need to clarify the funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117152002	You're welcome. There are some brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117152005	Thanks to the rapporteur for his speech and for having tabled a motion for a resolution in the past, which has then become nothing, we can understand. There is just something in the argument that comes from the Conservatives and from the Danish People's Party and from the Left that is not entirely related, so this is because it should be the room for manoeuvre, instead of those who have access to the scheme that can contribute to the scheme. How does this relate to the room? It is also taxpayers' money. So I don't quite think it makes sense. If you want this agreement, how can it be done in any other way? I hope the rapporteur can answer that question. Otherwise, they are very nice words, but without so much action behind them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117152050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117152051	We mean everything that has to do with equality and that women must be entrepreneurs and, thank God, as I said, things are going in the right direction. That is not the problem. The problem is funding. What is proposed here is a direct tax imposed on traders. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, we are open to finding funding other than imposing another tax on traders.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117152120	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117152122	Here, of course, we are dealing specifically with funding that is targeted, much more targeted than it has been in the past. There is then the previous proposal, which has come from the Conservatives, that it should have been financed by the room for manoeuvre. It is also tax financing. So it's just quite specific: where is it that the money should come from if Conservatives actually think they support this proposal? I hope the rapporteur can be specific about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117152151	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117152151-2	But the room for manoeuvre is indirect tax financing. That's direct tax finance. We have another suggestion that we could get the money from the integration projects. There's a lot of billions to get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117152205	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117152207	Thank you. It is a pity, however, that Conservatives do not support this proposal, especially because I can hear that you are interested in getting more women into play, getting more entrepreneurs. So I'm just wondering. The trade organisation for small and medium-sized enterprises, SMEs Denmark, is very pleased with this proposal. They say it's so good. They're really happy about it. You were really sorry when the Minister of Conservative Affairs, Mr. Conservatives... Rasmus Jarlov abolished it then. What does the rapporteur say about this? It's the trade organization itself that says they want this, that they want more women entrepreneurs like this. What does the rapporteur say that SME Denmark actually likes this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117152253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117152254	Well, we're as happy as they are for the proposal, but not for the funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117152300	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117152301	But the alternative is that nothing is done. We can find it from the room, but then there's everything else we can't do. This is direct funding. It is SME Denmark that has itself proposed that this is funding. Moreover, this scheme must have been paid into this scheme for a very, very many years before it is not a surplus business for the self-employed who go on maternity leave. So I wonder why you don't listen to the industry organisation that I know Conservatives very often listen to and say yes to this proposal because it will give more women entrepreneurs and put more skills into play.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117152341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117152342	Well, we're totally into all that. As I have said, the proposal is excellent, and it is good for women and equality and economic operators and the economy. But we are not enthusiastic about the way in which it will be financed, and we are open to finding another form of funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117152404	Then it's Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117152408	Thank you. I am a little surprised that the funding would then have to be found in relation to the integration projects, because I wonder where they get their money from, i.e. if it is not also tax-financed. So the rapporteur would like to explain this a little further. In addition, I had looked forward to standing side by side with parties such as the Left and the Conservatives, because it is on the entrepreneurship team. It is for equality, it is for growth and welfare. I am simply quite awkward and I have to express that fact that a party like Conservatives chooses to waver on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117152449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117152451	The questioner should not be sorry, because we think it is a fine proposal. We're in on it all, just not the funding. And as far as integration projects are concerned, so much money is being spent on them. We're not getting enough integration for the money. There you could pick up quite a lot just by providing the area with a service.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117152515	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117152516	In the end, it will still be taxpayers' money that will be moved from one place to another. That is why I and the Radical Left also think that what is fantastic about this proposal is that, contrary to the previous scheme, it is precisely that it is so targeted that those who might need this maternity leave scheme are also those who pay it. I am also surprised that Conservatives are not as enthusiastic as the SME Denmark trade organisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117152548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117152550	Yes, we are delighted with the proposal, not for funding, I will repeat it again. As I said, we have proposed it ourselves in the past, just with a different funding. That is our problem. That is why we say that we are open to it if the Minister calls for negotiations on another funding and then we come.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117152610	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party. There are no more brief comments. And welcome to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117152618	Thank you. You feel completely drawn to sometime back in the mid-90s • I'm so old and Crazy Daisy with the sound in the back of the palace square. I'll try to see if I can drown them out. But I think it is wonderful that democracy is sounding out like this, I have to say. And it's also nice that a lot of people are at work, including all the lovely women. There are some who say that they are not getting paid any more, but there are some who are backing up anyway today. I think it's nice to see a lot of wonderful women. I do not know if we can say that in these methods, but now I am looking at the House, and I can certainly see a lot of wonderful women here, so I can say that now. I hope it is not too sexist to say that there are wonderful women present. That's what I'm saying, because I think there is. As far as this particular proposal is concerned, it is a great deal about what the task of a state power is to do in this area and what is not the task of a state power. I personally think it might be a good idea to be in such a maternity fund as one might have to pay for. I myself have been self-employed and I think that if that opportunity had been there then, perhaps I would have chosen to pay for it. But here are the key words: would have chosen to deposit to it. Because I do not think it should be the State and the State that should dictate whether self-employed people want to have such a scheme and whether they want to pay for it, because then it will be just a further tax and a further tax for them. But if the labour market thinks and the self-employed think they will benefit from such a scheme, then I think they should set it up and people can pay for it and then it can be paid out. I see no reason why the state element should be put into it, because then it will be forced. That would not be the bourgeois solution, which is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117152827	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. It didn't challenge anyone, so there are no brief remarks. The next rapporteur should actually be from the Liberal Alliance, but as they appear not to be here, we move on to the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117152847	Thank you for that, and also thanks to the rapporteurs for a very good discussion and consideration of this bill, I think. I share the enthusiasm and joy expressed by at least a number of rapporteurs during today's debate. As they have also mentioned, the bill here is, after all, the implementation of part of the financial law agreement for 2020 between the government, the SF, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative to improve maternity conditions for self-employed people in Denmark. The aim of the agreement is to encourage more, not least younger women, to start their own business and, as Minister for Employment, is one of the most important things for me to work for the best opportunities for growth and employment. The bill incorporates self-employed people into the maternity compensation scheme under the same conditions as private employers, and I am extremely pleased with the very positive reception given to the draft law. Now, in her rapporteur's remarks, Mrs Samira Nawa referred to the consultation responses that have come from, among others, the Commission's services. SME Denmark, which represents the self-employed. She mentioned it in her speech, and I took the answer to the hearing: you have written thanks with an exclamation mark so large that I almost think you can read it from the back rows too. I am very grateful for the positive responses we have received, because it shows that the government has listened to the needs of the self-employed and also worked to meet it. As a general rule, the draft law has to ensure, as far as possible, that there is a correlation between the self-employed who will be able to receive payments from the scheme and the self-employed who will contribute to the scheme. Therefore, it is also a condition for compulsory contributions that you have income from your business that exceeds the maximum daily allowance and that you have a self-employed activity as your main occupation. In this way, we ensure that the income limit which gives entitlement to maternity benefit and therefore the right to payment under the maternity compensation scheme is the same as the basis for the obligation to contribute. I look forward to the further discussion of the draft law and, of course, I will make myself available to the next committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117153101	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment from Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117153107	Thank you, Minister. I hope that the Minister can hear me and that I will go through it clearly; I am pleased about that. First, I just want to share the optimism that we are coming together; that, when something is as important as this equality thing, we jointly take responsibility for it and that we make common solutions together. I'm really glad I've succeeded. There are some things that we would like to resolve with this bill, but which go further into the way in which the maternity allowance is arranged. I am thinking here, among other things. on the combinators. I am also thinking of fees not being included in the calculation. So there I just want to hear whether the Minister, just as positive as he has been in finding common solutions and taking responsibility for this, will also be open to looking at the way in which the maternity benefit system is organised so that we can do it even more contemporaryly, similarly and well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117153213	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117153215	Thank you for your question and also for your comment. I share Mrs Victoria Velasquez's pleasure in this. First of all, I would just like to say, in relation to the combinator's position, that this was, of course, also something we discussed during the negotiations. As Mrs Velasquez rightly says, in order to be entitled to compensation under the maternity compensation scheme, it is of course necessary for the person concerned to be entitled to maternity benefit as a self-employed person, that is. In the light of income from the self-employed enterprise alone, and if you do not have it, you will not be able to receive compensation from the scheme. One cannot combine the two kinds of income, as the rules are today, when applying for maternity benefit, but that should of course not exclude that we can and must discuss it in the future. If I am to make a statement and a concession, then it is clear that the Corona crisis here has also shown both myself, but also, I think, the whole government and perhaps even the whole parliament, that the fact that citizens combine their income from different ways of working as both the employee and the self-employed is growing. And, of course, we have to deal with that in some way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117153329	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117153331	Thank you for the positive response to that. I would like to sign for the answer and look forward to us pulling the work clothes to solve that part. And then I hope that, in future regulations in relation to maternity leave, with a view to what comes from the EU, we will also aim for equality there and ensure that joint responsibility is taken together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117153355	I agree with that. Well, basically, we want more fathers to take a bigger share of the bar. I know that there are different views on how much more of the bar is then etc. We must, of course, discuss this, but when we come to the discussion on both the Leaves Directive and the area in general, the government is, of course, both in favour of and in a political desire for fathers to take a much greater share of the barrage than they are today. And, of course, we look forward to discussing this with the entire Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117153437	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117153508	The debate is open. First of all, I would like to welcome the Minister for Housing. But while the Minister for Housing just comes up, I would like to point out that the clock here on the Parliament's platform is broken. That is why I stand up just a few seconds before the rapporteur's speech or comments are finished. But first of all, it's the Home Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117153537	Thank you. One can almost allow oneself to interpret the clock, which is broken, as an opportunity to talk as long as one wants. But I am not going to use all the speaking time here. However, I would really like to thank the Left for joining in the debate on the initiatives to stop the insecurity-building behaviour that the government presented earlier in the autumn. This motion for a resolution calls on the government to put forward a draft law establishing a fixed track system in housing law in cases of lifting a rental ban on grounds of unconditional prison sentences, for example. violence, so that an appeal in the residential court judgment does not have suspensory effect. Alternatively, the government is required to ensure that an application for termination of leases becomes an integral part of the criminal proceedings themselves. As we announced at the government press conference on 8 October, the government will present a bill in the current parliamentary year which aims to ensure that criminals who have committed serious crime can be exposed more quickly from their homes so that they do not create unacceptable insecurity in the area in which they live. In concrete terms, the Government has proposed to introduce a system whereby the question of the termination of the lease can be decided immediately following the criminal proceedings. The scheme is part of a series of government initiatives aimed at taking tough action against insecurity-building behaviour. I do not think we can be aware of all the law-abiding citizens that people who have committed serious crime can stay in a non-profit residential area. Such types should not continue to make an entire area insecure while a case is dragged through the judicial system. As an essential element of the current work, it will, of course, be examined and ensured that the legislative proposal put forward is considered compatible with human rights. Furthermore, there will be proportionality between the expected increase in resource consumption by the authorities and the courts and the application and impact of the scheme. However, it is the Government's expectation that an effective system will be created which still maintains the principles of the rule of law. As already mentioned, since the government has carried out a legislative proposal as described in this session, I imagine that the proposers will look with great goodwill at the legislative proposal that the government is going to table. That is why we do not support the resolution as it stands, but we also look forward to hearing more about the ideas of the motion for a resolution and the rapporteurs in the forthcoming debate in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117153808	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117153814	Thank you so much. As I have talked to the Minister about earlier, there are unfortunately many places around Denmark where there is harassment. I have mentioned to the Minister a concrete example from Elsinore with an elderly couple who experience harassment and violence from their foreign residents. Does the Minister think that the legislation is good enough as it is today, or does the Minister think that there should be some real tightening, for example with regard to whether you could live around the door with someone convicted of violence against you?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117153848	The Minister of Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117153849	No, I do not think that the legislation is tight enough as it is today. For me, there is a need for tightening up in a wide range of fields. One of them is how long it takes you to get convicted until you go out. And another question I have also invited to discuss is what the distance from one's home does in relation to the punishment one faces. It is clear that I know this matter too, and I am informed of it. This is a very unfortunate matter, because it should not be the case that because of the legal circumstances and the legislation there is, people who have been harassed to such an extent that extraordinary cleaning has been ordered in, I think that is 31 cases. That shouldn't be possible. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117153939	Thank you. I would just like to ask the Minister to speak a little bit louder. We have a lot of noise out here in front of me. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117153950	Thank you so much. Fortunately, I was able to hear the Minister's reply, and thank you very much for that. I agree with a great deal of what the Minister is saying, and we are also ready for this to be tightened up. In the specific case I described, it is quite grotesque. This foreign resident has been convicted of violence against the man of the older couple in this case, Erik, but he has also committed violence against Esther, and he has just harassed, as the Minister himself says, to such an extent that they live in insecurity. So I am really just glad that the Minister agrees that this really needs to be tightened up so that we can clean up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117154027	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117154027-2	Thank you. I am, and I would also just like to say as a very general point in this debate when you come out there: I myself was with two of my colleagues at Motalavej in Korsør earlier this autumn, when there was a meeting with the residents, who represented those who now live there and there was a clear demand from the residents for tighter policies in this area, tougher penalties, more police control, better opportunity to crack down on those who drive madness, threaten people and make the areas insecure. So I also think it is a requirement that actually most of all comes from the residents out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117154106	There is a brief comment, and that is from Mrs Heidi Bank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117154110	Thank you. And thank you for what I see as a positive step in relation to the proposal put forward by the Left. After all, this follows on from the actions already taken in 2018 under the bourgeois government, and I am a little wondering why the Minister does not want to speed up that process and why the Left's proposal cannot be endorsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117154136	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117154137	I do not really want to go into controversy about what proposals have worked and have not worked. I agreed with the proposal made by the then government, which was implemented at the time, to be able to postpone people from their homes if they commit crime. However, we must also say that the proposal adopted at that time has not had the effect in relation to the speed of those matters. And I am not going to blame the then bourgeois government for that, as one might, if one wanted to engage in controversy about it, but only to find that we are now in a place where new legislation needs to be made that works more quickly. And that is what the main purpose of this matter is, in other words, to ensure that we have as brief a case as possible when, moreover, we have to respect, of course, the principles of the law and other legal considerations. And that's what we're working on now in the government. And I also know that in this way the Left agrees that that is the task here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117154228	Thank you. Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117154231	Thank you. After all, there is no doubt that there is an agreement that what was adopted in 2018 was a step on the way, that it was some way along the path we would like to go, but that it is just not enough. It has not proved to be working well enough. Now we can say that what we are discussing today is that something further must be done; that we must make it easier for these housing associations to put out those tenants who are criminals who are harassing in the residential area and who make life insecure for the people who are residents there. And I am just wondering why the Minister cannot vote in favour of this proposal when the Minister announces that something will come at a later date. Because what we want here is to speed up the process.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117154317	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117154318	With all due respect to my colleague's rapporteur, I think that this is a little bit of a surprise, because we in the government have been playing out that we wanted to make this legislation, and then, as has been seen before, the Left will come up with a resolution in the meantime, in order to be the author of it. We're agreed on that. We also agreed when the previous government made it. We thought it was a good proposal, even though there were many who were concerned at the time. So let us stand together to get it implemented instead of discussing who came up with it and who didn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117154351	Thank you. There is one more brief comment, so the Minister must stay here. It's for mr. Egil Hulgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117154357	Thank you. I think Minister, we also agree on the intention of where we are going, and I am very pleased to hear the Minister speak on that. I just think that the Left's proposal is very clear. There are two elements to the Left's proposal. One is that an appeal from the housing court against the land court should not have suspensory effect, and the other is that we should have a fixed track system in the housing court. Is the Minister opposed to the two proposals?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117154426	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117154427	No, I really am not; I cannot say that I am, but it is clear that before I say yes to setting up a fixed track scheme in another minister's area, which would put housing cases in front of some other cases, I should like to know what kind of cases it is that you put them ahead of, and the Minister for Justice must agree with that, because if you get into a situation where, for example, a housing case is ahead, let us say a rape case, then I do not know if I think that is a proper priority. But it is clear that if it comes in front of a case of someone who has run a red light, then surely we can agree on that. But that is what you are working to find out in the Ministry of Justice, and I think that we should also give them the confidence to understand before we adopt anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117154510	I would just like to remind you that the second question must also be addressed. It's fine. Here you go, sir. Egil Hulgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117154516	Thank you. I actually acknowledge that, Minister. Now we are talking about housing law, so there are probably not so many rape cases; I certainly do not imagine that. But fair enough, I look forward to taking this discussion and also the next one.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117154533	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117154534	I saw it that way; it may well be that I have read the wrong text when the proposal was put forward, that it was a fast-track scheme throughout the legal system, and I would say I had some reservations about that: it may be that I have just been a little unfriendly to the reading of the Left's proposal. In that case, I apologize for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117154550	Thank you to the Minister for Housing. There are no more brief comments. Then I can see that mr. Alex Ahrendtsen is ready, but we need the Socialist rapporteur first. Here you go, sir. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117154612	Thank you. The fact is that we in the Social Democratic Party actually believe that we should go very far in ensuring the security of our general residential areas. And you can say that one of the tools that can help to do that is to terminate the leases of some of the criminal tenants. One of the issues that has also been pointed out here is that the country's housing companies are experiencing some long processing times in many of these cases, and so we are on the premise that this must be done more efficiently and more quickly than is the case today. Because we will not accept antisocial or insecurity-building behaviour in general residential areas. But it is also the case that after some of the riots we saw at Motalavej in Korsør, we actually presented a security and security package in October to put an end to insecurity and antisocial behaviour. One of the first initiatives in this package is that housing companies should be able to ensure a faster postponement of tenants who have committed crime, and when the Prime Minister presented the legislative catalogue, one of the initiatives in the legislative catalogue was that we translate this into a legislative proposal, so that it gives us some opportunity to put an end to the insecurity and antisocial behaviour. It is clear that the insecurity of these residential areas not only contributes to the shift of resourceful residents from residential areas; it has a double consequence, by the fact that resourceful citizens do not choose them to do so. Several studies show this. And the problem is that this has the consequence of maintaining and strengthening a socially vulnerable area, and we should have no interest in that. We do not want a society in which we live separately on the basis of social and ethnic parameters. We think it's poison for a society like the Danish one. Indeed, our social model is deeply dependent on strong cohesion among citizens, and cohesion is the whole foundation and therefore crucial. In the Social Democratic Party we want a society with mixed residential areas where the children of the Djøf also meet with the children of the help recipients on the playground, and where the resourceful residents with their presence can help to raise the resourceless, both socially and culturally. In this way we can create some more opportunities for children who have come to the world with minus points in the account because of the negative social heritage and therefore also have much harder to realize their dreams because they do not have the same opportunities as resourceful Danes. Of course, we in the Socialist Group would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution from the Left for presenting this motion for a resolution. We agree that criminal tenants should be able to cancel their leases more quickly, but, as I said, we do have a bill on the way, which is being tabled in this Assembly and which contains a similar initiative, and on that basis we cannot support the resolution tabled by the Left. However, we are sure that we can find each other in relation to the forthcoming legislative proposal put forward by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117154933	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no brief remarks... yes, that came right on the table. Here you go, Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117154940	Thank you. I am still astonished that, when what we are doing is that we impose on the government that they should do something so that they cannot back the proposals of the Left. But it is a good thing that the Social Democrats believe that something needs to be done. In relation to what has been put forward, which is like being formulated as if a huge chrome-plated solution has been put forward, I have to say that we are still waiting to see what the Social Democrats are really putting forward in this area. But it is true that there was a press conference and that there was one thing and the other, to show something. It is, of course, part of the process that is, but, as I said, we need to see what is coming in concrete.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117155018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117155019	I think it is somewhere else to kick in an open door, that is to say, in the sense that, in October of the opening, we presented a legislative catalogue which shows precisely that a large part of what is being proposed here will come. But we also have a basis for this, and there I am with the question debate today about the Prime Minister and the general discussion in such a way that we are confident that we will also have this looked at properly and spend the time that we will also have something legally held after we have adopted it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117155055	Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Henrik Møller of the Social Democratic Party. And then we should welcome Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen from DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117155056	Thank you. The Danish People's Party has been trying for years to tighten up the law, so it is easier to get rid of tenants who make life miserable for residents of non-profit housing. In the past it has been difficult to find sensitivity because large parts of the Folketing and the non-profit housing companies have been driven by left-wing and misunderstood consideration of criminals. Fortunately, this has changed in recent times. Now there is a broad consensus that criminals should not be allowed to use the law to terrorise other residents. The many cases from housing departments that have been described in the media have in fact only highlighted the need for us to intervene by the legislator. It is simply difficult to follow up on the good intentions because criminal tenants stay for years, even though they are actually exposed and have to move away. On 16 November, i.e. On Monday, the Housing Committee had a fine meeting with representatives of housing departments in Aarhus. Their request to the Folketing was more rapid postponement of criminal tenants. Today it takes too long for them. There are also bureaucratic obstacles which make it difficult for them to stem the ravages of criminals. With this resolution, therefore, the Left proposes to introduce a system into housing law so that criminal tenants can be put out of the apartment more quickly or even quickly. The Left also proposes that an appeal to the Court of Justice should not mean that the postponement should be suspended. The resolution tabled by the Left is excellent and we in the Danish People's Party can support it. Finally, if I may make some general comments on this, I would say that we in the Danish People's Party have always been in the position that no matter which wing has been in government, we have tabled motions for resolutions which have mostly been rejected, even though the government in office has always been in agreement, and that is what we are seeing here. The government actually agrees with the resolution, but it is rejected, and I really think that both wings should start to decide, because the Left did it too at the time, Conservatives did it at the time, the Liberal Alliance did it at the time, and now the Socialists do it too, and we agree with the intention, but we do not really want to say yes to it. An amendment could have been tabled which took account of the objections raised by the government. On the other hand, I must also say to the bourgeois parties who have sat in government that it is only a year and a half since you were in government and you have not really followed up on this. But we have been in the happy situation that we have not been in government, and so perhaps we can see more clearly from the outside what the problems are. So dear friends, dear government: should we not get started for the tenants and residents!
ParlaMint-DK_20201117155412	Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. There are no brief comments. Then I cannot immediately see anyone from the Radical Left, but I can see that Mrs Halime Oguz from the SF is ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117155424	Thank you. I would like to begin by thanking the Left for this draft parliamentary resolution on the accelerated postponement of criminal tenants. For SF it is important that all citizens can send their children safely to the playground in their residential area without fear of madness, mass battles or other crime. The events such as those at Motolevej are, of course, completely unacceptable, and it is important that criminals can quickly be thrown out of their homes • no doubt about it • so that they cannot plague the everyday life of ordinary families and elderly residents. It is important for the SF that we do not put the rights of criminals above the right of families with children to a safe family life. That is why we must be able to quickly throw criminals out of their apartment so that law-abiding citizens do not feel compelled to move out of their homes for fear of crime. Unfortunately, the housing companies repeatedly experience a long-running bureaucratic and legal process which makes the discarding of criminals difficult. Of course, we need to change this. However, we have learned that the Minister for Housing is already working on a bill to ensure that criminals who have committed serious crime can quickly be exposed to their homes. For SF, it is important that such an intrusive bill is thoroughly worked out and sent into consultation and that it is legally in place. We expect that with a proposal from the government. With these comments, the SF does not support the motion for a resolution for the above reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117155614	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we should welcome the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117155622	Thank you. Our usual rapporteur, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, unfortunately, cannot be here, so I will make his views known. The motion for a resolution here presents a wide range of legal problems. It relates to the part of the ghetto agreement which allows for the termination of leases if a member of the household is convicted of certain offences of the criminal code and the law on drugs if the crime has occurred within a radius of 1 km from the residence. So far so good. The Enhedslisten is and remains against this opportunity to collectively punish an entire household by postponing it from its home. To be honest, this is not worthy of the rule of law. The law specifically provides that the person is convicted and not simply accused before the lease is terminated, and that is what the motion for a resolution will do away with. The authors of the motion for a resolution will have significant consequences not only for the accused but also for the entire household. This is done by allowing the proceedings leading to termination of the lease not to have suspensory effect. The authors do not want the court to be able to give judgment before the defendant and his family are thrown out of their homes. This means, of course, that legal certainty is put out of hand when it can be punished in this way, only when there is an accusation, and it only makes it much worse that it is not only the accused who is thrown into a legal limbo, but also that the whole household must leave home and home. In relation to the fundamental issue that the proposers want to address, I can say that Enhedslisten is not blind to the fact that there are some residential areas that are plagued by crime. Here Enhedslisten believes that the right medicine is a much greater focus on housing social efforts and that SSP cooperation and job creation in residential areas will be able to solve some of it. By putting tenants out of their homes, we will simply move the problem to new residential areas. That is not the way forward. To sum up, in the view of the Enhedslisten, the resolution is highly problematical in terms of legal certainty and therefore we cannot support it in any way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117155833	Thank you to Mrs Jette Gottlieb. There are no brief comments. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the Conservatives, Mr. Egil Hulgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117155843	Thank you for that and thank you to the Left for raising an important debate. The Left wishes to oblige the government that, in cases where, according to Section 90 of the Housing Act, a resident fulfils the condition of postponement, e.g.: In the event of an unclaimed conviction, the matter must be dealt with more quickly in the housing court and implemented once the housing court has spoken, even if the stay is appealed to the court of the country. The former government's ghetto plan contained 22 action points where one of them was that criminals should be denied residence in a exposed residential area and that tenants and members of the household who commit crime in and around the residential area in which they live should be able to be exposed more quickly and effectively from their homes. We can then see from the press that everything is still going on, far too long. I think Parliament's parties are very much in agreement on this. We must lay the foundations for the safe residential areas and we must combat gangs and parallel societies. Today, however, there is too much time left for a criminal to commit his crime until the individual housing company has the opportunity to expose the criminal. That is what the Left's proposal is trying to address. Housing law works too slowly, judgments are appealed to the Court of Justice, and they then work too slowly. Now that the Minister for Housing agrees that this is a problem that needs to be addressed, I hope that the Minister for Housing will take the proposal that comes from the Left into consideration in the context of future legislation. But there are also other things that can help housing companies. That is, for example, the case. a need for improved access to the police to investigate the possible criminal past of each housing seeker also by subletting. So there are some other things that have not yet been implemented either and that should be implemented to ensure the housing companies' ability to create secure residential areas. I guess we all do. All in all, it is a good proposal from the Left that the Conservative People's Party can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117160056	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party. It's Mrs. Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117160111	Today we are debating a very good motion for a resolution from the Left. In short, it is a question of being able to expose criminal tenants more quickly than is the case today. Of course, New Citizens can back that up. I would also note that the legislation as it stands today is not effective enough or at least not being used as intended. So we can see numerous examples of this, including examples of actual everyday terrorism. A while ago, I met Erik and Esther Warburg. It is an older couple from Elsinore who have lived many years in Vapnagaard, a non-profit residential area. Erik and Esther sold their house on Zealand and moved to Vapnagaard because Esther was born in Elsinore and wanted to return to the city. Unfortunately, in recent years they have experienced both violence and harassment from their foreign residents. Actually, the overboy got a verdict because he kicked Erik hard in the stomach. Esther has also experienced being pushed into the wall by the overboy, so she had to be bedridden for a while. And when Erik was picked up by the ambulance because he had the corona, the overboy stood in the window and gave him his finger. Innumerable times, the housing company has had to send someone to clean up after the overboy's repeated harassment at the husband and wife's front door. It has been everything from saliva, glue and rotten eggs on their front door and doormats to the vandalism of their nametag. Their car has also suffered vandalism. But the farm that owns the area has not thrown the overboy out, despite being convicted of violence against Erik, and despite the fact that the couple are now forced to live almost dead with their attacker. Of course, we support this resolution, which is, of course, a tightening of legislation, but we also want to go harder. This is among other things. That is why we want to solve the problem of foreigners from the bottom up. Criminal foreigners must be deported consistently and after the first sentence, and foreigners who receive an unconditional sentence of liberty must have taken away their Danish nationality and be expelled. It is clear that non-profit housing companies should not, of course, let law-abiding Danes die with their perpetrators. We support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117160348	Thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen. There are no brief comments, and there is no one here from the Liberal Alliance either, so I would like to welcome the rapporteur of the authors of the motion, Mrs Heidi Bank from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117160400	Thank you for that and thank you for your support for the Danish People's Party and Conservative and New Citizens. The prehistory is, as we have mentioned here a little earlier, that in 2018 the housing associations were given the opportunity to terminate the lease if the tenant or members of his household were sentenced to an unconditional prison sentence for violation of the criminal code or law on drugs. And although this was a good first step, it has also been shown that it is not enough for housing associations to get the help needed to get rid of the criminals who destroy it for everyone else. When we hear the stories from Korsør, Odense, Copenhagen, Aarhus, yes, all the places where a few terrorise and destroy it for the many who just have a desire for a calm and peaceful everyday life, where you can move around safely where you live, it is clear that more must and must be done. In the Left we will not accept that ordinary, law-abiding people are terrorised in their everyday lives. With the motion for a resolution, we want action to be taken behind the good intentions of the political groups, so that we can move forward, and I would like to do so quickly. There is far too much time today, from a criminal resident being convicted of an offence to his or her expulsion from his or her home. Housing associations must be able to make a short process and put a criminal resident out of his residence immediately. Criminals who destroy it for everyone else in one area shouldn't be quiet. To be honest, they must be hunted down and know that if they destroy it for everyone else, they lose their homes. It is not fair that the few can go on and on without anything happening, while the system is being dragged around in the chain. So, of course, we were hoping that the Social Democracy and the Home Minister would also support this proposal, but we're going to work constructively on this and really just want this process to go as fast as possible so that we can create more security for the residents who are in these areas. Because, although, of course, I also think it should be emphasised that legal certainty is in order, I must also ask: where is the security of the many thousands of people who are exposed to these few people who are terrorising their territories, these few criminals who think they should destroy it for everyone else? Those were the words from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117160630	Thank you, Mrs Heidi Bank, to the rapporteur for the proposers. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117160645	The debate is open. And before I give the floor to Mrs Birgitte Vind, because there are new rapporteurs in the Chamber, I would like to say again that unfortunately the clock on the platform does not work so I will rise when there are 30 seconds left of the rapporteur's speech and 10 seconds left of the brief remarks. Then I would like to welcome Mrs Birgitte Vind from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117160732	Thank you. Denmark's 98 municipalities, together with the regions, form the foundation for the bourgeois welfare. The year 2020 has by no means been average, even for the municipalities. The Covid-19 situation has meant major changes in the daily lives of municipal institutions, but for some municipalities, the Covid-19 also means that the municipal budget is particularly challenged. These are the municipalities which, at the time of the budgeting for 2020, chose to self-budget. Municipalities which have opted for self-budgeting have, before covid-19, made an estimate of the basis for printing, in the certainty of a post-regulation by the State for actual development. However, all municipalities have chosen their budgeting model based on the desire to provide as much welfare as possible to citizens. For good reasons, the four municipalities concerned have not been able to foresee the covid-19 and the resulting change in the basis for printing. And although in self-budgeting there is precisely the risk of miscalculation, we in the Social Democratic Party do not believe that the municipalities have had any opportunity to foresee a pandemic and the economic consequences on the revenue side. The purpose of this bill is to support that the exceptional situation resulting from the covid-19 does not result in significant financial losses for individual municipalities that have chosen in 2019 to self-budget the income base from income tax as well as subsidies and compensation for 2020. This bill therefore proposes that municipalities which have chosen to self-budget income from income tax and subsidies and compensation from 2020 should be given an extraordinary opportunity, due to the covid-19, to choose to change it to the State-guaranteed income base. Such a re-election would mean that the municipality's revenues for 2020 would have to be reduced to the level of revenue that the municipality would have obtained when choosing the State-guaranteed revenue base. For the four municipalities, such down-regulation would amount to a total of 300 million. kr. On the other hand, the municipalities avoid an expected higher loss of revenue than 300 million. kr. in 2023 as a result of a post-regulation of the self-budgeted revenue base and uncertainty about any cuts in welfare. It will be voluntary for the four municipalities to make use of the proposed extraordinary possibility of changing the election to the state-guaranteed printing base. That is why, of course, the Social Democratic Party also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117161003	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mrs Anni Matthiesen has asked for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117161007	Thank you. Those of us who know about municipal systems know that there is a certain risk when choosing self-budgeting. And there I would like to ask the Socialist rapporteur something. So, I also know that this is a special situation where we have covid-19, but isn't there a risk with this proposal that the other 94 municipalities will somehow also be paying this bill, i.e. for these four municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117161041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117161044	Thank you. Well, of course it will be the case that it will be a global economy that will bear this. Of course. Well, we've seen in the past that, after major crises, municipalities actually opt out of this self-budgeting. After the financial crisis, you saw a lot of municipalities opting out of this model because you know this can be really difficult in the long run. For the state, this doesn't mean anything as such, and that's why we're thinking that this is a really good opportunity for the municipalities to save the skin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117161118	Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117161120	Indeed, what the Socialist rapporteur says is true: after the financial crisis there were also a number of municipalities which, frankly, came into a special situation where there had to be a helping hand. You can also see that a lot of people may have learned from it. Does the rapporteur think that it is fair enough that 94 municipalities could then be punished by choosing this model to help these 4 municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117161152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117161154	I do not know if it can be said that the other municipalities are being punished. I see this as a joint effort against some of the consequences that the Covid-19 has for the entire municipal landscape. And it is in no one's interest that there are some municipalities and have to make some violent cuts in their municipal budgets afterwards on the basis of covid-19. And this is a request that has been made in connection with the municipal agreements, and that is why it is being complied with here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117161222	Thank you to Mrs Birgitte Vind. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur we should welcome is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, who is on her way, from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117161233	Thank you for the floor, President. As you know, the Left is one of Denmark's sovereign largest municipal parties, and we are actually very proud of that. We have many mayors around Denmark, both on land and in the city, and we take pride in being closely anchored around the municipal map. As Parliament's second major municipal party in Denmark, we would of course have liked to have discussed this bill in more detail, both in relation to the content of this bill and also in relation to the fact that it is proposed that four municipalities should now be given the opportunity to change their own budgets, but the Minister has not wanted that. I can inform you that we received a brief briefing at a meeting and subsequently we also received a note from the Minister. We in the Left had a number of questions on this note, and we also offered the Minister a chance to come over to discuss this bill in order to try to reach a common understanding. Unfortunately, the Minister did not want to accept this, and the only reason I have at least been given for it was that unfortunately no time could be found for it, and the government already had a majority. It is, of course, the government's own choice, but I have to say that I do not think it is good enough, and I also believe that it demonstrates some sort of power arrogance. When we reach out and actually want to in dialogue, I think it is a pity that the government is not concerned about trying to find a broad agreement. I can therefore say that in the Left, what we actually rarely do, we will be voting yellow for this bill. Because if you do not even want to spend time discussing these things and, for that matter, perhaps work on whether there could be, who knows, an even better model, yes, then we will press the yellow button when we have to vote on this at third reading. The draft law here directly concerns 4 municipalities in Denmark, and I have to say that it concerns the municipality of Aarhus in particular. There are a lot of millions of people who are being sent to the Finance Minister's own constituency by this bill, as well as the KL President's municipality, and who have a negative impact on the economy of the other 94 municipalities. The four municipalities in question have at the time taken a calculated risk when they decided to make self-budgeting. You can also put it in that way that everyone who knows about the municipal world knows that it is a little bit to play a lottery. Sometimes it goes well, and sometimes it doesn't. The municipalities in question have therefore chosen correctly, when we also look back at 2017-2019, with an additional income in relation to the State guarantee resulting. As can be seen, a negative adjustment in 2023, as a result of the balancing principle, will at the same time entail a corresponding increase in block grants for 2023, which would be spread across all 98 municipalities. Now I started by saying that the draft law, at least on paper, concerns four municipalities in Denmark in particular, and that is true, but it must also be said that the government does not do much to achieve a joint clear discussion of this bill, and I have to say that I do not think it is possible to see through the impact on the 94 municipalities, because a re-election has a negative impact on the other municipalities as we see it. As a consequence of this bill, the 94 municipalities will receive a small grant, while there will be a great advantage for the municipality of Aarhus. Having said that, it goes without saying that uncertainty about the size of post-regulation implies considerable economic uncertainty for the four municipalities concerned up to 2023. Of course we in the Left also recognise that we have a special covid-19 situation, but all in all I think it is a pity that we cannot discuss these things and find a common solution, and that is why the Left is going to vote yellow on this bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117161724	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. I just want you to remember that there are 30 seconds when I stand up when we have the rapporteur's speeches. So there is plenty of time, I would say to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. There are no brief comments, and I would like to welcome Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117161743	Thank you. After all, this bill is about allowing 4 municipalities to choose whether they want to be self-budgeting or whether they want to have a state guarantee. It is, after all, a consideration that is being given to the annual budgeting in all municipalities. You can choose the State guarantee so that you know what you are dealing with, or you can choose self-budgeting, and then you can earn or lose money depending on how the municipality's tax base develops in each year. Today, virtually all municipalities opt for state guarantees. Previously, it was somewhat more varied. However, I remember back to 2009, when, as a result of the financial crisis, a number of municipalities had chosen self-budgeting and lost quite a lot of money because the tax base fell. Since then, at least in my own municipality, Assens, there has been a very, very brief discussion about what to choose. We didn't play in the lottery. However, in relation to the current proposal, it might be appropriate to consider how the challenge was resolved in 2009. Because is the current challenge greater than it was for the municipalities then? Right now we have four municipalities that have chosen self-budgeting. They have done so, knowing that there is an opportunity for a gain and also a risk of a loss. I'm fully aware that we have a corona situation... a special situation right now... and a loss can probably be expected in these municipalities. According to the bill, the four municipalities have received an extra 300 million by self-budgeting. kr., which they will of course have to return if they are allowed to opt for a State guarantee instead of self-budgeting. I do not see in the draft law what economic consequence there will be for the four municipalities if the bill is not adopted. Nor can I see what effect it will have on the other 94 municipalities if the proposal is adopted. In this way, there are a number of questions that we need to clarify in committee before we can at least in the Danish People's Party find out how we feel about the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117161938	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. Then we should welcome a debutante, sir. Henrik Vinther of the Radical Left, who has just been joined. Welcome, and please give me your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117161953	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. I have been looking forward to that, and I shall be very brief. The proposal makes it possible, as has already been mentioned by the previous rapporteurs, for the four municipalities that opted for self-budgeting in the context of the 2020 budget to opt for guarantee budgeting instead. The background is of course the current station around corona, which among other things. has made the tax base uncertain. This is an uncertainty which no one could foresee and which the proposal is now ending. I promised it'd be short, and I'll keep it. The Radical Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117162026	Thank you. The rapporteur is then at least in the process. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The next to be welcomed is SF's rapporteur, Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbak, sorry Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117162049	Thank you. There's been inflation in the name of Mølbak right now, so I have a vicious struggle to correct the last name. Thank you for that, President. Timely care is usually something that we appreciate here on the part of the Folketing, but sometimes we end up as a society in such extraordinary situations that none of us could predict the course of events. When four individual municipalities in the autumn of 2019 before corona chose to self-budget income for income tax, subsidies and compensation, they had obviously not taken into account a worldwide pandemic that has drawn many negative traces, both globally, nationally and locally. These municipalities should not be penalised for an estimate they made in any social image other than what we have right now, nor should they be penalised with the risk of excessive negative post-regulation in the coming years. Therefore, SF sees it as an exceptional solution to give the municipalities concerned the opportunity until 21 December of this year as a result of the covid-19, that is to say to change their choice to the State-guaranteed printing base for 2020, so that the municipalities' revenues for 2020 will be reduced to a level corresponding to that level of revenue. Since the Folketing will only have the opportunity to adopt the bill immediately up to the time limit for the municipalities to decide to reverse their decision on self-budgeting in 2020, we agree with KL on the importance of informing municipalities as soon as possible about the form and process prior to the entry into force of the law. The SF thus supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117162228	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then we welcome Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117162236	Thank you. The proposal is, of course, a rescue plan for the four municipalities which, before any of us had heard of the word corona, had chosen to take the risk of self-budgeting. Now the government is giving the four municipalities a chance to decide, and we can certainly welcome that. This does not solve the problem of many municipalities having received a great deal of additional costs in the current situation, and we are of course concerned about this and we are working hard to ensure that it is resolved in other contexts. But this proposal is a bailout for the four municipalities that were self-budgeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117162311	Thank you to Mrs Jette Gottlieb. There are no brief comments. And then I cannot immediately see any representative of the Conservative People's Party, so we should welcome the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117162330	If you as a municipality choose to self-budget, you take a risk; sometimes things go well, sometimes things go less well, and sometimes things go badly. It is the politicians in the municipalities who choose, with open eyes, not to base the municipality's budget on the state-guaranteed printing basis, but to self-budget income from income tax as well as subsidies and compensation. The politicians in each municipality must be on the target for this. And the Danes who live in that municipality must base their vote on that for the forthcoming municipal elections. In this case, therefore, there is a desire to meet the wishes of four municipalities, all of which have chosen to gamble on their own budgets. But they must find out for themselves. Whether this situation is based on corona or not, self-budgeting is their decision. And that's why New Citizens are voting against this proposal. We also support the fact that a number of questions have to be answered during the committee procedure, because it is very, very little that has been known in this draft law. But the essence of that is that New Citizens vote no to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117162450	Thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen. There are no brief comments. And since I cannot immediately see anyone from the Liberal Alliance, I would like to welcome the Minister. Here you go, Social Affairs and Home Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117162500	Thank you. Thanks to the Things for the consideration of the bill. After all, it is a bill that follows up on the economic agreement between the government and KL in connection with the covid-19 that the municipalities that had chosen to self-budget the revenues for 2020 before both the outbreak of the covid-19 and even before anyone had even heard of it. This is an extraordinary situation facing these municipalities, with the prospect of a greater loss expected from the post-regulation that they are facing when we can calculate the actual revenue base for 2020 in two years' time. Therefore, the draft law here allows the municipalities concerned to switch to the State guarantee in an extraordinary manner and thus be covered by the same guarantee as the other municipalities, and this re-election will be voluntary. A re-election would mean that, at the earliest opportunity, a negative adjustment would be made similar to the additional revenue generated by the municipalities by self-budgeting. On the other hand, the municipalities avoid an expected increase in post-regulation in 2023. As has also been pointed out here today, the draft law must be seen in the light of the exceptional situation of covid-19. This will only apply to the budget year 2020. The Covid-19 situation is difficult enough for the municipalities, and that is why we think it is quite reasonable to take this quite extraordinary and special account. I would like to say that I am sorry for the report from the Left. I think that we have tried to involve the Left in relation to the bill here; there has been a meeting with the Left and questions have subsequently been answered, but it is true to the Left and to everyone else in the House that I always look forward to the committee reading and to answering questions, and I understand that there are also questions to the bill here, and it is very good to hear that. Then I would like to say that it is a model that has been agreed with KL. This is the model proposed by KL, which has been agreed by the government with KL, which is why it is the model that has been put forward in the draft law. And to those who have stood on the platform and said that the municipalities are aware of the risk of loss and that it is a calculated risk, I would say that this is the whole basic and basic principle of the possibility of self-budgeting under normal circumstances. However, I find it difficult to imagine that any of my good colleagues here in the Danish Parliament who stood on the platform a moment ago and talked about it would think that in any way this time last year, or even a little earlier this year, we could calculate that there would be a global pandemic. I simply think it is quite unreasonable to put it up like this and to say that one should have had an opportunity to know. That is why I should just like to stress from this point of view, if anyone has the concern that this will be a new approach to self-budgeting, that it will not be. This is a very special bill that has to be seen in relation to the fact that when you made your budgets last year, you couldn't know that the world was on the verge of a global pandemic, if just we haven't seen for 100 years or more. But thank you for the treatment of the thing. I am, of course, looking forward to the questions in committee and will also be happy to answer them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117162833	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117162838	Thank you. And thank you for the Minister's speech. Can the Minister from the platform say something about the situation if these four municipalities say yes to changing it now in relation to self-budgeting, i.e. whether it will affect the situation of the other 94 municipalities, or whether it is something that the Minister can give a guarantee that it will not happen at all? That was one question. Then I would like to ask: can the Minister not confirm that it was another solution that was chosen after the financial crisis, so that it does not necessarily have to be the model you choose, but that you, for example, have to be the model you choose? could also have chosen the model chosen after the financial crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117162921	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117162923	The last point: it is true that the then government chose a different model on top of the financial crisis. This is the model we have agreed with KL in the economic negotiations, and that is why we are putting forward it. We believe that this is the right thing to do. This is not going to have any impact on other municipalities by 2020, as the questioner also asked. Let us examine in greater detail in the committee's proceedings how the mechanisms of post-regulation are in relation to the technical part in the future. But this is not going to have any impact on other municipalities by 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117162952	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117162953	No, I am well aware that it will have no impact on the other municipalities by 2020, but probably on the longer track. Could the Minister finally answer whether the KL had other models on the table in the economic negotiations or whether it was simply here that modelled a
ParlaMint-DK_20201117163017	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117163019	No, I do not feel a great need to stand on Parliament's platform and so go into details about the negotiating table in relation to the municipal economy. So it has to be said that what happened on top of the financial crisis is history writing, and the questioner knows almost more about that than I do, compared to what you thought when you had to deal with the financial crisis when it hit and why you did not act as we do here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117163048	Thanks to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Because we have been so quick in the Chamber, we will take a short break before moving on to item 10 on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117163316	The debate is open and the first to be welcomed is the Social Democrat rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117163342	Thank you for that, President. That fg. Before the rapporteur begins, I would just like to say to all the rapporteurs that there is no clock up here on the platform. It may seem a little confusing. When you have a rapporteur's speech, I stand up, 30 seconds before the time is up, and when you have a brief comment, I stand up 10 seconds before the time is up. Then you have time to finish your stuff. Here you go to the rapporteur. ) We are counting on that, and thank you to the President of the Court here for not sticking to a clock. Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for explaining our cooperation in the European Community. It has to be said that this is a rather special year that we are taking stock of here, and it is also clear that, while I and we in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament need to add words to some of the very common agenda items which, of course, have moved over the course of the year in the European Union, it has of course been a completely different year of covid-19 and of a world that is more connected than we had sometimes thought, but also sometimes more than what good is and where we become deeply dependent on each other, deeply dependent on each other's reactions to a worldwide pandemic, but, in fact, also a situation in which we sometimes have to act as national states. Sometimes we have to work together, but sometimes we also have to act on what we think is important to protect the Danes' health and our relationship at home in this case. So, of course, we have supported European cooperation in the past year. We support this, but there are also elements that we believe should be critical of, and let me try to say something about a few of the points. I am pleased that we have helped each other across borders in Europe. I think it is wise that this time we have chosen to invest, to set things in motion and to help each other get back on their feet on top of a crisis. In my view, we all benefit from the fact that Europe is getting back into gear in relation to the economy and jobs. That is why it is good that we have made a recovery package in the European Union. It is good that we have adopted a new seven-year budget. It was really important for Danish interests that we ensured that the budget not only became for the next 7 years, but also became more modern for the next 7 years in terms of tackling the climate crisis, in terms of ensuring better digitisation and competitiveness and in terms of ensuring that external borders and migration are managed. On the whole, we believe that we can be satisfied with the agreement reached on the budget. A key element has, of course, been the whole debate on the rule of law mechanism, and although there is now an armrest and, most recently, a few Member States have turned against it, it is important for us to say that we have stood firm on the need to link compliance with the EU's very basic rules of play with membership. It is good that we have established a link, so there is now also a connection between compliance with the very basic rules of the game and whether you can receive money from the community. With regard to our external relations, there is a great deal to be said about the trade policy situation and, in general, about the geopolitical and security policy debate. However, some of what we have discussed in this Chamber recently is, of course, also the very horrible and serious attacks that have been on our partner countries, France and Austria most recently, from Islamist terror, and it is of course important that we use our voice in EU cooperation to signal unity, stand down, stand down. When you attack one of our allies when you attack the fundamental principles on which our society is built, it is of course also an attack on Denmark, although thank God it was not an attack that physically took place here. In relation to the green transition, it has been crucial for the social democracy and for the government's priorities that the EU's ambitions have been raised. This applies, of course, to the European Union's objectives in the green area, but it also applies to the budgetary agreement referred to above, in which we ensured that a higher share of the money will be spent on green conversion in the future. That's smart. It will not only set the economy back on track, but it will also mean that we get our economy back on track and end up in a better place than if we had just rebuilt with what we know from the past. If we are to throw a little worm into the cup in relation to some of the things that I think we have worked well on, perhaps I would like to say at the end that EU cooperation also sometimes needs to be discussed critically and say away when we think there are some things that worry us. One of the places that is worrying about the Social Democracy and the government right now is the issue of the wage • now Jens Rohde takes the floor when I mention it • because, of course, we have to stand firm that the Danish model and our way of agreeing pay and working conditions in Denmark must be independent of what is going on in Brussels, and we must ensure that we do not get the two things mixed up. We need to stick to this both because we support our model, but indeed because it has given us some really, very good results, not least in a crisis situation such as that we have just been through, where we have shown, or indeed not primarily, but where the social partners and the government in tripartite negotiations have shown that crises can be dealt with very quickly and very effectively. That's good. However, there is no doubt that cross-border problems are best solved in cross-border cooperation, which is why we fully support our European cooperation. We do so, regardless of the fact that we will sometimes be allowed to ask critical questions about what is going on in Brussels. However, we are doing so in an atmosphere where, of course, we know and believe that, in relation to the huge problems of tax collection, dealing with climate problems and ensuring that cross-border crime is effectively combated, there is no answer other than the European response, and that is why we stand shoulder to shoulder with our European partners when the major problems need to be addressed. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117164037	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117164042	Yeah, that's just the password, sir. Jens Joel. When I gave one of my countless lectures in Brussels, I always spoke of solidarity, and then many of these young people who came down classes and such things looked at me, and then I was often asked if I had gone to the left wing when I was using such an old red word. Then all I had to say was that no, I am not, because on the left and on those who call themselves red, I can see that solidarity does not go beyond self-protection's own defence. This is the crux of the matter when the Social Democratic Party and the Danish trade union movement are opposed to a proposal aimed at creating more equality in the labour market, creating fair conditions for all workers in Europe with the background and the backdrop that we have very different pay systems. That is what the Socialists deny because the Danish model is in no way threatened in the concrete proposal that has come from the Commission. What's sir? Jens Joel's comment on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117164151	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117164155	If sir... Jens Rohde says that solidarity is about ensuring better working conditions for all European employees, for example, there is nothing to prevent us from supporting it. What is true is that a proposal for a minimum wage is not really the right answer to that question either. Moreover, if the European Union is to start dictating our salaries in Denmark, it is an intervention. I know that the Commission has assured us that this is certainly not the plan at all. Nevertheless, we are very concerned that this could be a consequence of the proposal put forward. So this isn't about not showing solidarity with others. This is about making sure we don't find the wrong solution to the right problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117164243	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117164245	Legal minimum wage is not a solution in Denmark or elsewhere where you have a high percentage of organisation and good collective agreements. But that may well be so in those countries where there is absolutely no high percentage of organisation, and that is what the proposal is based on. I would like to know what it is that quite specifically means that Mr. Jens Joel believes that the bill that is now on the table could lead to a legislative action directly on Danish wages, as Mr. Jens Joel well that there is no legal basis in the treaty.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117164320	Thank you. Sir. Jens Joel, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117164322	No, we believe that we can in fact question whether there is any legal basis in the Treaty to make this proposal that the Commission has made. We would like to challenge the fact that this can be dealt with at all. Because we do not believe that the Treaty provides for any conditions of pay. Perhaps that is also why we have had to look elsewhere to find a legal basis, and we can be concerned about the confusion that can happen with an individual right, which may undermine what is our collective system here and where EU law is going to interfere inappropriately with the way in which it is organised (that is to say, in the context of the Treaty on European Union). President. - Thank you) and the Danish model that we have here at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117164405	It is a little hassle that there is not a clock, but on short remarks I rise 10 seconds before time is up. Here you go, sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117164412	Well, maybe I think that mr. Jens Joel was a little too positive with the European Union, wasn't he? Jens Joel It's most surprising). 'Cause sir... Jens Joel does not confirm that when we have these terrible conditions in a number of countries in relation to employees' rights, it is partly because the European Commission took the lead in breaking down collective agreements and went in and, for example, went in. Did sectoral agreements and agreements in Portugal and elsewhere during the crisis prevent them from weakening the working class and weakening the organisation of the working class? So some of the problems we are facing now are the result of the anti-labour policy which the Commission has been responsible for for many years. And perhaps the solution is to start not hindering collective agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117164511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117164513	I don't think it's too full to say that I'm probably gonna put myself somewhere between Mr. Kim. Jens Rohde and Mr. Søren Søndergaard in this discussion and therefore will be accused of being too enthusiastic and too pessimistic. But what I would like to reply to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, is that, indeed, I believe that if you want to do something that strengthens employees, even in other European countries, it is wiser than the proposal on minimum wage that has been made to discuss how to support a greater organisation, a better degree of organisation, a greater power for the players we know from the Danish labour market and who will be able to make employees in other European countries stronger. We would rather support that agenda than, at EU level, create a common minimum wage.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117164602	We thank the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And welcome to the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117164624	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a long but also good and thorough statement. A lot has happened since we last stood here: we have among other things. negotiated the EU's next multiannual budget, which would like to put something sustainable into the green transition; then the new President of the Commission has put forward a number of proposals that we have to deal with; the external borders remain under pressure; brexit has still not been resolved; and the legal reservation is still a clue on the Danish police to mention just a few points of impact. Look, the last time we were in this Chamber, we discussed the development of EU cooperation, and there we were happily unaware of the pandemic that would soon hit us all. At that time, it was the brexite negotiations that were our big headache: what could we expect? Who would be Denmark's new closest ally? Would there be a deal, or would it end with a hard brexite? Today, we are so insanely close to the so-called rocky edge scenario, since there has not yet been an agreement. The Corona situation has certainly not been in the interests of the British negotiators, and Boris Johnson is now on his way over the edge of the cliff without a parachute, as he is refusing to extend the transitional period. All we know for sure is that if the British had had a referendum today, yes, the main page would have won big. It is especially the young people who want to remain in the European Union, in other words the people who are going to take the country forward for generations to come. I can well remember that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt said at the last debate that he loved brexit and that he was delighted with brexit. And I don't think it's the first time that Mr. Knox has ever been here. Morten Messerschmidt has been told that he is an old man trapped in the body of a young man, so I hope that the rapporteur will not take this wrong, but I simply do not believe that there are very many, and certainly not from the younger generation at home, who share the rapporteur's love for brexit or who find the British situation particularly attractive. But somewhere it is nice that the Danish People's Party has finally known its colours, after years of wavering back and forth on the question of whether to join the EU or not. Now we have come to the conclusion that if it were up to the Danish People's Party, we should leave the European Union, and then the rest of us can rejoice that it does not do so fortunately, that is to say it is up to the Danish People's Party. Having said that, I am pleased that the DF can nevertheless find some advantages in EU cooperation. We saw this only last week when the DF had called for an urgent request on the situation between the EU and Turkey following the brutal killing of the French schoolteacher Samuel Paty. Although, sir... Morten Messerschmidt, in his rapporteur's speech, was called the EU useful idiots, at the same time he spoke of a community of values and of the need for joint pressure on Turkey in the form of trade sanctions and political sanctions. The Left is very much in agreement with this. This leads me to one of my main criticisms of this statement. The government has looked up a value-based foreign policy, but I simply cannot see it anywhere, either in words or in deeds. The EU's relations with Turkey are mentioned on 11 lines in an otherwise very full statement, and the government did not go out until several days later condemning Turkey's totally unacceptable behaviour. And frankly, condemning is a little a free round. Denmark should then have been the first country to show solidarity with France, because we have, like ourselves, been in a similar situation. But once again, the government was sitting on its hands sneaking around, and that's just not good enough. For an attack on France, an attack on Denmark is no longer. Unfortunately, this is not the first time that the government has failed completely when it comes to solidarity. Take the "Hadegave" from the north, which on P1 very well known as Denmark's so-called contribution of among other things. useless respirators for the needy Italy. It took weeks for the government to pull itself together to respond to Italy's distress call at all, and even longer time had to pass before the government was able to send out some old junk, to which Italy of course turned down. In addition to the toe-crumbing embarrassment, the government was given a signal to the other EU countries that Denmark is almost itself, while countries such as Romania, Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia sent medicines and protective equipment, and what do I know, to a Member State in need. Even third countries like Cuba and China were ready to help. And I would like to congratulate Tinne Hjersing Knudsen, Sofie Klkkerholm Rye and Dagmar Havndrup Aagaard from the Danish Radio's P1 which was awarded the Association for the Upcoming Journalism Award for the project • The Hadgave from the North It's fully deserved. I simply have to read out some of the jury's reasons. It sounds like the Corona virus put Italy down. We remember the pictures of military trucks filled with dead, which were driven in convoy out of the city of Bergamo. Hospitals were overloaded, and in the midst of the crisis, Italy asked the world community for help. The Danish Government, in its own words, offered a solid hand-out... If it were not for the Danish journalists, it would probably have been the story that remained. But when an expert in P1 Morning described the respirators as too primitive and too old, it became the starting point for an exemplary journalistic study on a current case. Using strong documentation, targeted source work and a strong bullshit detector, the three journalists reveal, among other things, that the respirators offered were unsuitable for covid-19 patients, and that the Ministry of Health was already aware of this... The government has since apologized for the process, which triggered the noses of three ministers...... Finally, I should like to pay tribute to the government for a little bit, but I do not want it to go to its head. Indeed, I would like to commend the government for its tireless work for an effective and well-functioning rule of law mechanism. The government has not been able to support the Presidency's initial negotiating mandate on the rule of law mechanism, as the government wanted an even more ambitious mechanism. I am very pleased because the rule of law is something that is so dear to the Left, because the rule of law, rule of law, is not just a central part of the Constitution of the Danish Empire, but part of the principles of the community of values that bind us liberal democracies together: principles of the independence of the courts, principles of a free press and principles that the government acts only on the basis of law. I repeat: principles that the government acts only on the basis of law. Imagine that Denmark is being kept under observation by the Commission because of the government's lax relations with an absolutely fundamental rule of law. It's a principle my daughter learned about on the very first day of law school. This is the principle that the government must have a positive legal basis in a law before it has to rule. Before a government makes such a far-reaching decision as to destroy other people's life's work by ordering to kill every mink and put an entire industry to death forever, one must be allowed to do so. Before sending the military to mink farms to monitor that the destruction of other people's property is progressing according to plan, yes, one must be allowed to do so. Quite frankly, I am embarrassed when Commissioner Reynders rightly has to lecture us on fundamental principles of law, of necessity and of proportionality. But perhaps it is very good to be reminded of how fragile democracy is and that it is healthy to be looked at with critical eyes by good friends who share our values. For the EU is more than a purchasing association. The European Union is a community of values of free countries in Europe, a community which does not always work perfectly, but which we as a small country have a clear interest in being part of the core, with on the table, without reservation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117165438	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a number of brief comments. The first brief remark is to Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117165443	It is good to hear the rediscovered Left, I would say, focus on the rule of law and elementary legal principles. Sometimes I had a little bit of trouble finding them. I remember a certain minister who visited the Austrian Interior Minister when he was from the Freedom Party, Herbert Kickl. Just read his story, and I think you should turn down the charm a little bit. I also remember two Left Ministers who were present in the Liberal Group's room at a meeting at the time when we were discussing the rule of law. So we can leave all that behind, and then I am delighted that the Left has regained its view of the rule of law. I would actually like to ask something quite different, but we can, in fact, take the rule of law with us. I often discuss with the Foreign Minister at this time the fact that we simply need a new European political agreement, and I would like to hear Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, whether the Left will help put that pressure on the government that we get started with the negotiations not in a year or two, but now... the fg. President-in-Office of the Council. I would ask Jens Rohde to make brief comments). You never really know when... I don't count 10 seconds inside my head. Excuse me, Chairman.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117165607	It's like down in the hall, you have to look at the clock. There may be time for long talks in the European Union, but that is not the case here under short remarks. - Sir? - Yes, sir. Jens Rohde comply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117165622	That was a clever excuse: I put the paper above the clock; I was in good faith. When the speech was given by Jens Rohde... instead of Jens Rohde giving the speech. Well, leave it alone. The question was about a new European political agreement. After all, the one we have is having a number of years on the back, so there is a need for a new one, and we are very happy to take part, together with the Radical Left, in putting pressure on the government to get a new agreement. It is not a matter of urgency that it should be in a month or two, but we must get started and we must get started so that the new European political agreement can be in place before the end of this session, certainly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117165700	Sir. Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117165702	What, then, is the Left's bid, in addition to the fact that the Left has announced that it would like to have a minimum date for lifting the defence reservation? What do you think, sir? Jan E. Jørgensen, to be offered items?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117165721	What is to be said in the new European political agreement? How long do I have? Thirty seconds? The fg. President 26! ) This is not going to happen today, and even if I had had more time, I would not have told you here what the Left thinks should be in the European political agreement, but I do not think the Radical Left will be so sad about what is going to stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117165740	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117165744	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur of the Left is the great advocate of the European project; he then spent a great deal of his speaking time on some domestic political teasings, but let it be. I would like to address what the rapporteur said about solidarity and, at the moment, the attack that has been in France. For the rapporteur said that the government had done nothing. There I would like to ask what the Left would have done, in addition to what the Foreign Minister said he condemned and denounced what happened and that we in the Danish Parliament have voted through, that we would be willing to work for sanctions, France should want to do so. I find it hard to see that you can help France better than you can by saying what you think is necessary. And that is what we are doing with you, and that is why I think it is a little untenable to criticise the government for not standing on France's side.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117165839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117165842	Now I think, sir. Jens Joel's tightening it up. I have not said that the government did not stand on France's side at all. I said the government took too long to stand on France's side. That's what I said. And you can disagree with that, but that's what I said.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117165853	Sir. Jens Joel, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117165856	Fortunately, you can see everything on video, so sir. After all, Jan E. Jørgensen can revisit what was said about the government's hesitant attitude. But I take that as an expression of the fact that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen actually believes that in the same situation the Left would have done the same, namely backed up by the sanctions, France would have to want them and that it might therefore serve as a little teasing with the government rather than a really substantial disagreement. Can you understand it that way?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117165923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117165924	I said: the government only went out and condemned Turkey's totally unacceptable behaviour several days later. And frankly, condemning is a little free. Denmark should have been the first country to show solidarity with France. We have, like ourselves, been in a very similar situation, but the government was once again sitting on its hands and sneaking around. It's just not good enough. That's what I said, so there's no need to sit down and watch videos.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117165945	Thank you. The next person who has asked to speak is Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117165951	Thank you for that and thank you for a very, very exciting speech, in which the rapporteur not only affects the government's statement but also a number of other parliamentary parties. It's a joy when you come all the way around like that. Not least the Danish People's Party was affected, and I noted that the Left welcomed the fact that Danish European politics does not belong to the Danish People's Party. Now I understand that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen would like to be Prime Minister on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I assume and the first question could be whether we can have it confirmed. How does it compare with wanting to be prime minister on the support of the Danish People's Party when it is in this way cheered that the Danish People's Party saw in a very central area, at least for the Left, apparently should be completely out of influence?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117170041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117170042	Thank you. In other words, just as we now have a government that has a parliamentary basis consisting of the Enhedslisten, which would rather get out of the EU today than tomorrow, I see no problem with Jakob Ellemann-Jensen being Prime Minister, among other things. with the support of the Danish People's Party, despite the fact that we look at this issue differently. For many years we have worked closely and well together in a wide range of policy areas. But on the EU issue, we are far apart from each other. I do not think that there is any disagreement on this issue, nor do I see that we, as a blue block, necessarily have to agree on everything. I think that is a strange requirement. If one could imagine that Enhedslisten and the Social Democratic Party would describe the economic policy that was intended to be pursued in Denmark, then that would also be an impossible task. So there must be room for diversity within a government and its supporting parties too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117170136	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117170137	I guess I think that's a different way. Well, at least I'm remembering when Mr. Knox... Anders Fogh Rasmussen was Prime Minister, that there was a very good cooperation, for example. to contain the consequences of the Metock judgment, between the then VK government and the Danish People's Party. I recall several examples where it has been imperative for a Left Government to have the Danish People's Party to secure itself, also in relation to EU policy, where the very left wing has wanted to play kispus with the government and thus with Denmark's interests. That is why I just think that this is a strange way of taking such a solemn opportunity as today to, and indeed to, cross the party that may have to be a parliamentary support party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117170216	Here you go, Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117170218	Well, I would like to take my speech back and say what I said about the Danish People's Party, namely that it is not up to the Danish People's Party whether Denmark should leave the EU or not, fortunately. Well, I mean that. I believe that Denmark should be a member of the European Union, that is what Jakob Ellemann-Jensen thinks, and that is why it would be unhappy if something else happened. This does not mean, of course, that we cannot work together well and finely on the EU issues where we might be able to reach agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117170246	Thank you. The next thing I want to give the floor to is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117170252	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. I would like to return to the kind of preliminary remarks on the recovery fund. After all, the aim of the recovery fund is to ensure that the European Union's economy does not burn completely together on top of the situation we have right now. This would be detrimental to the Danish economy, which is an export economy. That is why I was a little surprised that the Left, which is of course an EU responsible party, did not support the government's mandate to both the MFF and the Recovery Fund. This is actually the most important such platform we have to work on right now, and since we have to go down and approve the regulation in the Chamber before this recovery fund works, I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the Left intends to vote against it when we get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117170348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117170350	It was also a strange process. I recognise that from the bottom of my heart. I mean, we saw a prime minister in this Chamber, who stood and delivered a number of members of parliament about where the money was to come from for the increased EU budgets. Should they come from tax increases, should they come from welfare savings, should they come from the fact that people who already work almost the longest in the European labour market would be asked to work even longer, that is, an increased retirement age? This is what the Prime Minister was kindly asked to discuss the next multiannual budget. Against this background, we asked the government to provide us with a guarantee that the next budget would not be financed by tax increases, because we would very much not want to go along with such a madness that, because we say yes to the European Union and yes to the next budget, we would also have to accept tax increases. And then it turned out, when we were finished, that there were no tax increases at all. On the contrary, less money must be spent than was budgeted by the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117170502	I would like to know if there is any other brief comment, because then we should remember to press on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117170507	Well, there are thousands of jobs at stake here, and for me and for SF it is about securing and creating new jobs. That is, of course, what is financing our welfare, as I am sure the Left would also express it. Indeed, I see the funding that lies in that we also have to remember that it is an investment in the future. An investment in the future creates more tax revenue. So I still do not quite understand why the link with the Left, which is, of course, an EU-responsible party, has not been seen and why resistance seems to be firmly established.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117170545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117170546	I think that is what is called a strawman: that we should see no link between jobs and growth and welfare, that we should not see that the recovery fund is aimed at bringing Europe through the crisis. So, of course, it has it, and we certainly support the principles behind it and also think that there is a very sensible budget for that country. When we chose not to give a mandate, it was due to something quite different, as I started by saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117170612	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117170616	Thank you. Apart from a violent and indignant criticism of a minister acting without a legal basis, a criticism which I fully share, no one mentioned, no one forgotten, then I got it from the fact that the rapporteur of the Left wants a new European political agreement. And then I think that you already have a European political agreement, and what is wrong with it? What is wrong with the European political agreement? Jan E. Jørgensen trust that you can agree with those who were so strongly criticised about making changes? As far as I can recall, the agreement is that it can only be amended by unanimity.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117170700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117170701	Yes, it is a conciliation, so it must be adopted unanimously, that is quite correct. I mean, there's nothing really wrong with the agreement we have, but a lot has happened. There's been a lot of water under the bridge since it was written. There is nothing about climate in the agreement that is now in place, but it is a subject that is very important, and then we also have the whole debate on our reservations and so on. There are plenty of things that need clarification among the European positive parties here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117170732	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117170732-2	I asked the question as to whether it was expected that agreement could be reached. Or is it just to show someone else that you want that debate? And can you agree with the Left? In other words, the Left agrees that we must abolish, for example. the euro reserve or how?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117170758	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117170759	Yes, we can agree with the Left, that is no problem, we can easily do that. I cannot guarantee that we can agree with the other parties here in the Folketing. I cannot do that, but of course we are going to negotiations with the ambition that we will agree and that we will reach an agreement. We have been able to agree on this before, so that it should not be possible to do so again. Our ambition is not to exhibit anyone. Our ambition is to get an agreement in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117170822	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur to whom we are to welcome is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117170850	Thank you. After all, it is always nice to have the opportunity to be wise about the government's EU policy and priorities, and it must be said that the last few days have given rise to more than usual. While it appears that both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Prime Minister consider the Constitution with a certain nonchalant approach, one is more than concerned about EU law. Because throughout this minkgate we find ourselves in, where the government has administered directly in violation of the law and so on, and has done so well, knowingly and with open eyes, and without even lifting a finger to correct the problem, when you became aware of the situation, it was as if you were really concerned that the EU's state aid rules were being respected. In other words, while the Constitution could be obscene, what the government ministers really cared about was getting hold of the Commissioners in Brussels to ensure that the money paid out to mink growers did not violate the EU's state aid rules. And that balance really shows more than the seven or eight pages that the statement contains, how the Danish Government gives priority to: Well, the constitution is the sort of thing that you can beat with; it is all going well, after all, it is just something we have signed on at a festive occasion when we were elected but woe the one that comes into conflict with EU law. The whole approach underlines what is wrong with Denmark's or at least the Danish Government's priorities, the Danish Government's EU policy, and that is a good argument for getting rid of the government if you get a new EU policy by getting a new government. And there you can be in doubt when you hear Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. In other words, I can be in doubt about what this is really a new line of EU policy we would get by replacing the Foreign Minister with, for example. Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen as Secretary of State. Will there be any difference at all? Is there even a razor blade to put into the love letters that the two gentlemen send to the European Commission and Parliament and the Council and the Court of Justice, and what do I know? Is there any difference at all? I know that there was a difference once, for example when Dansk Folkeparti supported Anders Fogh Rasmussen. As I mentioned earlier in my question to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, we had a fine agreement to disagree, but also an agreement to defend the Danish constitution, for example. And when the Metock judgment was openly challenging the principle of attribute, and as openly, I think so, Mr. Søren Søndergaard and I agreed at the time, went beyond the transferred power that we had given to the EU was actually able to mobilise bourgeois Denmark. Of course, this will not be possible with the present government, but the question is whether it will be done with a new bourgeois government with Mr. Jørgen Jørgensen as Minister for Foreign Affairs or Minister for European Affairs, or whatever it is for dreams, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen carries around with him. At any rate, I note that we welcome the fact that it is not for the Danish People's Party. If it were up to the Danish People's Party, then of course this country's EU and foreign policy would be different. For Mr. After all, Jan E. Jørgensen is right that there is a European community of values, as I also stressed in my speech on Turkey last week. There is a community of values emanating from the western falsity of peace in 1648, the emphasis on national differences, the fact that democracy can only live in the nation state, the fact that we, as people, belong in an anchoring that is emotionally-emphasised and historically-equipped and handed down and is not abstract ideologically-thought as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen salutes it in the European Union. That is what is the community of values, which can be said to be Europe, and that is the diametrically opposite of the European Union. The European Union is precisely a conceived community which takes no account whatsoever of the concrete reality that exists in Europe, in the countries, in the peoples, and that is why ideologically strongly anchored types, such as the Foreign Minister and Mr. Jens Rohde and Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen and other good people in this Parliament obviously love the European Union. However, I am not sure that Europeans love the European Union. I am quite sure that Europeans love Europe and their own countries, but not the army of officials and parliamentarians who are neither known nor voted for, bureaucrats, judges or Commissioners who are few in number and who are even fewer inclined to know. The last year has thus strengthened the assumption quite considerably. For what did the European Union actually do when the corona hit the continent? We have a Commission President who even has a PhD in epidemiological diseases, but who was unable to do anything; everything fell back on national governments. We have an agency up in Stockholm whose only task is to warn and make sure that we are ready when infectious diseases hit the continent; of course, the ECDC is acronymized in order to spread publicity and knowledge. What did they do? Nothing more than passing on national awareness and national experience. So when the economy was completely shattered, what were you doing? Yes, then the opportunity was not taken to try to get things back on track, no, of course, the opportunity was taken to get even more of the European Union, a larger EU budget, joint liability, more EU taxes and everything that the federalists have dreamed of. It was not about the Member States, about the nation states, about Europeans, but it was only about the European Union, about more power for Brussels. That is why I must say that I believe that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen is right: There is a fundamental Community of values between the Danish People's Party and the Left, between me and Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. And I just want to say to Mr. Simpson... Jan E. Jørgensen and all others who are lying with wet dreams in their heads and 12 stars on their feet socks that we will always stand if you try to challenge Denmark's reservations. We will always be there to fight for Danish sovereignty, whatever it is for a fight you had to fight for that European political agreement. The next step proposed by the government's EU policy is the rule of law, and that sounds good, because who is not in favour of the rule of law? In other words, some old communists once had problems with it, but they have been destroyed now, so now everyone is in favour of the rule of law, everyone is in favour of democracy, and everyone is in favour of the nice, polished and beautiful things. There's just not many people who can define what that means. Because when it comes to the fact that the European Union now has the right to govern and control and to keep us on the narrow track of the rule of law, what exactly are the powers that we are conferring? Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen mentions something about the independence of the courts. I am a strong supporter of the independence of the Court of Justice; it would be absolutely terrific if we had a Court of Justice in Luxembourg which was politically independent, and I would dream of that. Unfortunately, we do not have that, as most people who know about EU law recognise. I am also a warm supporter of a free press, and I have wet dreams about the day we had to have a press that would just colportate fairly freely and independently of what is going on in Brussels, and not be completely liberal in the project. I am basically in favour of ruling by rule of law and following the rules and so on. And we have a government that says that they want to, and they will even leave the European Union the power to check that we do. But when it comes down to it, and when it comes to the constitution and so on, it can lie in a very small place. So what exactly is it about the EU now having the power to decide on the rule of law? Does this mean that the EU must decide how to interpret the framework of freedom of expression in Denmark? Does this mean that it is the European Court of Justice that has to decide whether you have the freedom of assembly to stand and hammer on a frying pan, however timely it may seem, down here in the Palace Square? Does this mean that it is the European Union that has to decide how the Folketing works? If that is what is involved, then I would just like to say that it will not be with the support of the Danish People's Party. For every time you hand something over to the European Union that may sound sugar-sweet, it ends even more bitterly than even the most nasty speech by Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen and that's not a compliment. That is why we really, really need to be careful when transferring new powers to the European Union. The last few months have shown the example. The European Union wants to solve the problem of wage dumping and social dumping, and what do I know and what is the proposal? Yes, every time there is a problem in Europe, the answer is more EU, more power to Brussels, more power to Luxembourg, and now we have the case with a proposal for new rules on pay. We were told that we had never delegated the power, but we do not have a government that is willing to defend that view, and that is why, of course, we are bowing down, because that is what Brussels says. We are basically dealing with a line in this country where, whether it be the Social Democrats, the SF, the Radicals, the Left, the Conservatives or other EU Fidel Parties, there is a fundamental problem. And that's that they don't know the word no. You do not know the word 'no' when it is necessary and when you have to say 'no' to Brussels. That is why we in the Danish People's Party are basically calling for an Intergovernmental Conference to be convened which fundamentally redefines the EU policy of this country, where, firstly, we are asking for the European Parliament to be shut down; secondly, we are ending any kind of accession negotiations with Turkey; thirdly, we are rejecting any kind of increase in the budget; fourthly, we are saying that we are supporting the United Kingdom because what we want is free trade and it is not this political re-enhancing that the European Union has developed into a • fifthly, we want to reject any kind of further transfer of power to the European Union. We don't get that, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen or the Minister for Foreign Affairs, we know that, and that is why we would rather ask the Danes. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117171858	Thank you. It was just in the second, really good. There are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117171905	Thank you very much, and thank you for your attention. One would almost think that it was Jan E. Jørgensen's statement on EU cooperation that we discussed, and not the Foreign Minister's statement. However, let me address the issue of state aid. For the rapporteur is also a lawyer, even a very good one. I do not think that the Danish minkers see what is happening right now as such outright support from the state. I think it is seen as almost the opposite. How could there be State aid when a profession is closed down, when it is said that the profession must be fully compensated for the fact that the profession can no longer be operated on Danish soil, and when, moreover, there have been derogations from a large number of State aid rules in advance, and when the profession will not be able to compete afterwards with other countries' mink industries? How can one even think in government that there is state aid? I'd like to have such a little talk about a lawyer for a lawyer. Because I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172015	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172016	Legally, I don't think there's much to understand either. But politically, there may be something to understand, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. I think we're thinking in the same direction. It should of course be noted that, in many cases, the government does not use the word compensation, but compensation. And I think it has simply been tried to get through with the fact that this closure of the mink industry in Denmark, which is deeply unhappy but which is, of course, a warm and fervent desire for large parts of the left, which keeps the government in the government offices not to be regarded as expropriative, but rather as general regulation. This would probably only have to pay compensation, which is a much lower amount than the compensation. And it is clear that when compensation is paid, it may be with the expectation that the industry can subsequently be re-established, and thus the State aid rules will be in jeopardy. But Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen is quite right that this crazy intervention, both legal, political and economic, which the government alone, with the extreme left, has got through is expropriative, and therefore it is compensation, and therefore the EU should just stay out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172111	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172113	Great, great! I'm glad I'm not the only one thinking those thoughts. Could it perhaps be imagined that this is a theory that I have had and that the government is, like, leading the European Union to have some sort of excuse for not coming to the wallet and paying the rightful compensation to which mink farmers are entitled?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172136	One could very much do that, and that would not be the first time. We have seen it in particular in foreign policy, where in the election campaigns we have toured with views which we knew would require a violent fight with EU law, with human rights and so on, and yet the electorate pretended that we were willing to take that stand, for example. in relation to the right of birth, that is, to deprive Syrians of the right to be born. But when it comes down to it, yeah, you don't want to. So, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen is quite right: it is a well-known trick from social democrats and other EU Fidel Parties that one is said to the electorate, but then the EU is allowed to take the fall for why it cannot be realised.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172208	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172212	I understand, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, that he has reached an age where he has begun to long back to time during Anders Fogh Rasmussen, this safe time when there was a close and unbreakable collaboration between the Danish People's Party and the Left Government. Perhaps there was not always agreement on the Constitution, but it was always based on the Constitution, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt said always based on the Constitution. Is that a bad memory, sir? Morten Messerschmidt has, or does Mr. Morten Messerschmidt really that nonsense?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172251	I don't know if sir. Søren Søndergaard thinks of § 19 and some wars we started when he thinks that there should be violations of the Constitution. But I will certainly maintain my point of view and then wait to be lectured by Mr. Søren Søndergaard... Anders Fogh Rasmussen should have been convicted by an impeachment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172310	Søren Søndergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172311	After all, it is a question of a political assessment, and I understand that the Danish People's Party has changed its position on the Treaty of Lisbon, and I think that is interesting. This anti-EU party that is now informing the Danish Parliament that the Treaty of Lisbon is in line with the Constitution! It's marvelous, sir. Morten Messerskommentar... marvellous!
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172336	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172337	I don't know who's doing the most extraordinary deed here, sir. Søren Søndergaard. I do not think there will be many who will be in doubt about my opposition and my analysis of the Treaty of Lisbon. Now my short-term memory fails me, but I actually think I've left a copy of my new book out in mr. Søren Søndergaard's dues, and there I can refer to Chapter 7, which I think is where I explain the view. It's just if mr. Søren Søndergaard is in doubt. But I did not think of the Treaty of Lisbon just now, and I am happy to admit that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172406	Thank you for that, and here you go, sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172409	At any rate, there is never any doubt that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt believes that he is the only person in this room who has been given a sufficient brain mass to be able to comment on European issues. The only problem is that there's a little history falsifying in it. Because I remember who attacked the then prime minister, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, to conclude a migration pact, at the summit in October 2008, rather than at this summit raising the issue of the Metock judgment itself. It was Gordon Brown who did it. Sir. Anders Fogh Rasmussen's explanation was that the affected 2 percent of the family reunifications and thus had no significance for Danish immigration policy. - Sir... Morten Messerschmidt doesn't remember at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172503	No, I can't, and I think that Mr. Jens Rohde lets his later party change affect his memory ability. Because what I remember from that summer is that sir... Anders Fogh Rasmussen interrupted her holiday in France, returned home, insisted that Mrs Birthe Rønn Hornbech, the then Minister for Integration, did the same, called for negotiations and made an agreement that contained the damage. I'll be there, sir. Jens Rohde is so far ahead that we could not get the government of that time to reject the Metock judgment, and that was of course an injury. But that's not the point I made in relation to mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. Because it is not the case that we in the Danish People's Party insist on the number of seats we may have to act as if we had 90 seats. What was my reaction to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, the words saying that it was a pleasure that EU policy did not stand for us, that is to say that we should be completely outside. Of course, we will never accept that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172559	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172601	But Mr. After all, Morten Messerschmidt was an EU rapporteur while I was a political rapporteur, and I often stood on the platform and was attacked as hard as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen will be today, for the EU policy we followed. And that's the way it's supposed to be. It is fine that we are different; agreement makes stupid, as Niels Hausgaard says. Fortunately, we are not stupid, which is why we can discuss things. I would just like to deal briefly with the state aid rules and ask the lawyer whether it would be desirable for the government's wording to prohibit mink teams in 2021 and therefore not forever to talk about expropriation and therefore have to contact the European Commission for the implementation of Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172655	I'd like to ask you, sir. Jens Rohde to keep speaking time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172700	No, you cannot imagine that, because it is written directly in the agreement reached last night that you consider it to be expropriation. So it's been in the process up to.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172714	The next one to make a brief comment is Mr Seligman. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172719	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. You hardly know where to start. You could start with the nonsense that was said about the government just lying down flat and saying yes to an EU minimum wage or something. Because what I said five minutes ago from the platform was the opposite. But I actually think so, sir. Morten Messerschmidt remembers what I said, which is why there is probably no reason to go further down that road. But something that pisses off my curiosity is about sir. Morten Messerschmidt is of the opinion that this is how I understood the speech about the rule of law. In fact, we should not interfere in what might happen in Hungary or in other countries, which could violate democratic principles, the independence of the courts, independent journalists, a free press, etc. etc. Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, that the European Union should not interfere in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172819	First of all, in relation to the minimum wage: I do not think that the government is doing anything near what is necessary. Once again, because I do not know which time, when we are faced with a case where we are arguing that the European Union is interfering in a matter to which we have not delegated power, we should, in respect of the Constitution, at least the respect that some of us in this House have said no. That's my point before. You could say that you can do what you want, Brussels, but that is just not going to bind us. That is my challenge, as with the Metock judgment and the Laval judgment and so on. etc. So, in relation to the rule of law: I do not believe that the European Union should have the power to interfere in the countries' press or judicial affairs or the freedom of assembly or the rule of law in the broad sense, because it opens a barn for the European Union to suddenly come and have a position on every issue in the world, which is closely related to Danish issues too. On the other hand, perhaps we should be a little more vigilant in relation to who you are taking up in the European Union. Finally, if there were to be any criticism, it could be appropriate in the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172925	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172926	I have to say, sir, that's not good for you. Morten Messerschmidt and also more bad than usual if you have to invent problems with the EU and claim things that are not right. I think that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt actually tends to be able to find points of criticism that are completely genuine. The nonsense that the government accepts the issue of minimum wage and the proposal from the Commission, I do not think we are going to go any further. However, I note that there is full support for Orbán's line in Hungary.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117172957	I simply believe that the small speech speaks so openly for itself that there is nothing to be attached to it. That would simply be to beautify it, sir. Jens Joel said.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117173008	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117173024	My night hat doesn't suit me. /Calotteen ka Lotte så. /Calotte ka the shooter/use at night/if not cadden/with the cube will have it,/and I hitter the hat/and the hood in the cottage/can him the hot cottage/and the bulkhead from Vray/get the hittehat/and the cottage cap on! I regret to the President that I am using the word hottentot, as it is not a word to be used anymore. Nevertheless, I have chosen to start my post with this poem by Halfdan Rasmussen because it doesn't make sense. And when I read the government statement, it is not because it makes no sense that it is actually very good in many ways. It describes the good aspects of cooperation, the need for cooperation, and then it also describes some issues that we have. However, where it makes no sense to me and where the Danish debate among the so-called EU positive parties makes no sense to me at all, it is possible to list a number of challenges and problems, but really does not do anything about them, because one is not willing to recognise the system errors that there are in relation to the challenges we face, which are cross-border. You do not do that because you are clearly afraid to work for the EU enthusiasm. It must not be said that we are moving more power to European cooperation. But the truth is that when it comes to climate change challenges, when it comes to tax speculation, as I know, the Minister for Foreign Affairs was very concerned about when we were colleagues in the European Parliament when it comes to combating terrorism, when it comes to migration and when it comes to crime, to name but a few, as it does to the financial markets, because we have the free movement of goods, services, people and capital. That is what Happy Sweyn Auken said in his day: once you vote for it, you change the world. But if you do not have a sufficiently strong political superstructure to deal with the challenges it brings with all the benefits that it brings, but with all the challenges it also brings with free movement, you end up with a law of the jungle, and you end up with a cooperation where it becomes the big ones who trickle the small ones or where it is the financial markets that control it together with the criminals. When I look at the challenges we face in Europe and then I read the government's statement and hear these debates that we have in the Danish Parliament, I can't help but think of Anton Chekhov's play from 1904 called "Kirsebærhaven." I don't know if any of you know it, but it's actually written as a comedy today, it's only performed as a tragedy. It is about a family that has lived in exile, comes home to their father's farm, and belongs to a large cherry garden. But the economy and the farm are in decline. And there are many who make many suggestions as to what can be done about this decay and about the problems facing the family. But all proposals are rejected; you want nothing. And the play ends with the family leaving the farm and the cherry garden to the sound of the cherry garden being felled. This is the problem of not doing anything, of not having the courage to tackle the root of the problems of European cooperation, do not know as an EU-positive party that professes to be a European Union-wide peace be with those who want us out of the European Union and do not want to dare to admit that there is simply a need for some fundamental change. And with them there is also a need for some treaty changes. This requires it if we are to be able to deal with the problems, the cross-border challenges that we all know we are facing, I have mentioned some of them. We can also take our role on the global stage, in other words our inability to conduct foreign policy and speak with one voice on the major issues: the fight against pandemics. So we got so far when the pandemic suddenly broke out that countries like Germany and France suddenly did not understand that single market means single market, so they banned so-called export of protective equipment within the European Union until, fortunately, the Commission drew them into place, which we have our Community institutions to do, namely to secure the Community, so that individual countries do not drive protectionism and start exporting the problems to each other. But there are just a number of areas where we are far from strong enough to do so. And that is why, in my question to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen asked whether the Left would be involved in the negotiations on a future Europe, which we will be discussing in advance when this conference on the future of Europe will hopefully be launched at some point. And there I think it would be sensible if we had a stand in the Folketing, that is to say a common stand, because the national parliaments also have to play a role in that conference, so that government and Parliament have some common rifts that we give birth to that conference, so that we do not once again, as has happened so often before, come too late and end up having to sit and correct a comma. Let us, however, take an active part in this discussion. But we cannot do that for each party, and I know that there are many things that separate us. Yeah, of course there are, but there are things that should be able to put us together. That is, for example, the case. tax speculation, tax fraud; it is the climate struggle; it is the fight to ensure migration so that we know who is on European soil. For my sake, it could also be a battle for a little greater equality in Europe. Because when we find that we have a high degree of confidence here in Denmark and that our equality is a factor in linking things together, it might as well be that we should try to fight that battle at European level. Now Mr. Søren Søndergaard and the Commission's opposition, for example, to those judgments. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. It is then reflected in the judgments that are handed down. Now perhaps we have a chance to move on to discuss a socially responsible Europe and a sustainable Europe at several levels. I think we should do that, and I think we should get started and then acknowledge that we have some pain limits. I know that I am not going to have my federal Europe, but we all have our pain limit, and we are all going to feed on something, and then we can use it as a platform to make our influence felt at the conference on the future of Europe, which hopefully will then lead to something that is better and more interconnected than what we have today. The unity and unity of Europe were an idea born of the few, it became a hope for the many, and it is today a necessity for all of us. That is what the first German Chancellor, Konrad Adenauer, said in 1957 when the European Union was formed. His words from then on are, in my opinion, exactly as valid today as they were in 1957.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117174024	Thank you. There are two brief comments, at least so far. First, it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117174031	You've got to give Mr. Knox. Jens Rohde, that he is both idealistic and clear in his tongue and heroic. What is so remarkable is that if you hear Mr. Jens Rohdes talks about Europe over time, and then you are left with the question: I wonder when it will stop? Because when we discussed the Treaty of Lisbon and when we discussed the Treaty of Nice, Mr. Jens Rohde with us, and when we discussed the Maastricht Treaty, I think that Mr Rohde too. Jens Rohde was there. I wasn't. Jens Rohde, sir. Morten Messerschmidt probably not). I wasn't. But every time we have discussed new treaties, Mr. Jens Rohde said that it is just around the corner that we will have the European Union that can solve the problems; that which can bring peace to the world; that which can solve climate problems; that which can match the United States; that which can create a common foreign policy. I remember clearly from the Treaty of Lisbon that it was said that majority decisions would create more efficiency and that the fact that we had a genuine foreign minister and a Vice-President of the Commission should replace the foreign ministers in the countries and would create a common voice, etc. Yet we hear Mr. Jens Rohde stands here and says: It's just around the corner; we're not there yet; it's just around the corner. When does it end, sir? Jens Rohde?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117174143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117174145	Hopefully this will never end. And I have never ever pretended to anyone that it was just around the corner on the contrary. The world is a dynamic size and not a static size. I know it's gonna fall, sir. Morten Messerschmidt very hard to understand that the world is dynamic. That's why you always want to go back to old times. But I have never pretended to anyone that the problems would be solved right here around the corner. I only recognise, even after the ten years in Brussels, which we had together, that there are some system errors in European cooperation. Sir. In fact, Morten Messerschmidt should recognise that I, as an EU supporter, say that there are some system errors. And shouldn't we try to figure out how to open that treaty and do something about those system failures? Then we can always fight over what needs to be done about them. However, to say that there are no system errors, in that today we are 27 countries in European cooperation, which the Treaty of Lisbon did not take into account anything other than technology, I mean borders on escapism.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117174248	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117174250	We agree on this in a certain sense. What distinguishes us is that I consider the European Union itself to be the mistake and that that mistake will never be corrected because the European Union itself is anti-European. That's where sir. Jens Rohde and I look at things differently. But what is remarkable is not that we disagree. What is remarkable is that Mr. Jens Rohde always has the view that there are just some mistakes we have to correct, but if only we have a President of the Council, if only we strengthen the powers of the Commission, if only we remove the right of initiative of the Member States, then we will be there. Now, sir. Jens Rohde saw the hope for it in what? 20 years or 25 years? Or how long it is he's been fighting for his cause now. But it's still gone something we're not quite in line with. When will it stop, sir? Jens Rohde?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117174330	Thank you!
ParlaMint-DK_20201117174331	But it will never stop, and fortunately European cooperation is developing. It develops, and every time there are people who in their rhetoric stand and settle it, fortunately there are some who come together on the bus. That is what we saw in the last European Parliament elections. It was, of course, that the people who wanted Europe showed that we could work together. For European cooperation, regardless of what is thought about the very construction and the Treaty, is basically not a problem because European cooperation is based on the fact that we are overcoming each other's differences, because the alternative is that we export the problems to each other. That's the beauty of the idea, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117174407	Thank you. Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117174410	I think, sir. Jens Rohde is right about two things, like Mr. Jens Rohde said. First of all, sir. Jens Rohde is quite right that the unbridled free movement of goods and capital, goods and services, labour, excuse · is the Holy Grail. Secondly, Mr. Jens Rohde is right, because it is, of course, the Court of Justice always judges for the benefit of employers when these matters come to a decision. We saw that with the Waxholm judgment. So Jens Rohde comes to the conclusion: that is why we need to change the Treaty. And I kind of agree. That is why, on several occasions in this Chamber, we have put forward proposals for a social protocol to remedy that problem. But then it is that Mr. Jens Rohde talked about a common European political agreement, and so it is just that I am thinking: is it the Conservative People's Party that wants to take part in it; is the Left who wants to take part in it? Who's that? Jens Rohde is to be included in the European political agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117174517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117174518	First of all, everyone must be invited to participate. I mentioned in this connection that everyone has some pain limits, and we must try to do so, but we must also try to respect some of the pain limits. I simply find it so difficult to understand, or I simply do not believe that some would disagree, that we have to deal with tax evasion and tax holes and tax havens at European level. Well, everything else is subversive to Denmark and the way we finance our welfare. So we should have a common interest in that. Then we should be able to get some pants out of that cloth and sit down and say, "What do we do then?" And so on in the area of climate change and other areas to see what can become of it. I have been sitting in the European Parliament this is the most amazing thing, I think, where we sat 751 people from the then 28 different countries with very different views, and there we could actually find a broad settlement on a wide range of things. We should be able to do that in this house, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117174627	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117174629	Yes, but now I didn't start talking about this free or unbridled movement as the sacred grail of the European Union. Jens Rohde. And that is why the Court of Justice judged as it condemned, so that is what needs to be done up to. And that's why I have to get back to: Who is it, sir? Jens Rohde imagines he's gonna make up for it? Is it left? Is that Conservative? So, I think that is a fine objective and I would very much like to work with the Radical Left to get a social protocol. But I just don't make it rhyme with the other, sir. Jens Rohde says.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117174707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117174707-2	I do not think there is a contradiction between having freedom of movement and having regulated mobility, fair movement and a social protocol, which I have always argued for. In fact, I have always done so because I think it is absolutely crucial. It is like saying that a certain degree of equality for a liberal should be an end in itself. Why? Because otherwise you will not get all the freedom you want, because people will then turn against it and that is what we see in Europe. That is, of course, the fear of free movement, because it is not regulated and therefore leads to too many accidents.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117174751	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. And the next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117174803	Thank you. As usual, the debate is taking place in the higher levels of air here, and I shall then try to play a part as such rather new EU rapporteur. But I'm sure we can handle that. Thank you to the Minister for the statement on EU cooperation. When we last debated developments in the European Union and in EU cooperation, it was with the climate elections as a backdrop. The citizens gave us politicians a clear task: action must be taken on climate challenges so that future generations can live on a healthy planet and action must be taken together. Only through a strong European community can we solve the climate problems. Then Covid-19 suddenly came and turned everything upside down, and it was clear how vulnerable we are to cross-border epidemics. The pandemic has tested the European Community to such an extent that, fortunately, it has shown a great deal of strength and capacity for action. Since the outbreak, EU policy has been very much about the virus, and it will probably be for a long time to come. However, there are many other important issues on the agenda and there is enough to address. Allow me, for example. In the light of the climate in the EU, mention the Commission's green agenda and make it a top priority with the presentation of a European Green Pact, among other things. with a strategy that concentrates on biodiversity, a land-to-table strategy and a strategy to stop deforestation. We have also received a proposal for a European Climate Law, a binding Climate Law, which must set the objective of a climate-neutral EU and a reduction target for 2030. And it will then have to be negotiated here in December. Fortunately, we in the SF, together with other parties, succeeded in pushing the government to be more diligent in the negotiations than was actually planned. Denmark is now at the forefront of the negotiations on a European 2030 target, and several countries are following our ambitious approach. Now the government must hold on so that we can have the country an ambitious climate target in the European Union. The agreement on the MFF also has a significantly greener focus than in the past, and from the SF we have obtained a number of clear green impressions on the government's negotiating line, which is also included in the final MFF agreement. For example: that expenditure under the MFF must not go to climate- and environmental-damaging activities. In the recovery fund, which I hope will be finally in place very soon, it is also clear that the green transition and the recovery of Europe's economy are very closely linked. As I said at the outset, the serious economic crisis in the wake of the covid-19 has been a test of the EU's decision-making capacity. The European Union has reacted much more quickly and with more comprehensive measures than during the financial crisis and has shown the ability to make major decisions quickly and under difficult circumstances. And it's incredibly good. I believe that the European Union must be a club of rule of law that effectively upholds fundamental rights, free press, independent courts and genuine protection of minorities. Unfortunately, several countries have problems meeting these basic standards in this area, and that is not going to work at all. In September, Parliament held a hearing on the pressure on the fundamental rights of the EU, and here it was clear how the situation for example. The rights of women and non-LGBT people have deteriorated in both Poland and Hungary. In the spring, Hungary adopted a discriminatory law against transsexuals, and in Poland we have seen how LGBT-free zones have been introduced in several areas. The European Union's actions to date have proved to be, unfortunately, a little inadequate in terms of strengthening and overcoming the obvious problems we see in several Member States. Fortunately, the institutions have now reached a sensible compromise on a link between access to the EU's cash register and the ability to comply with fundamental principles of the rule of law. Poland and Hungary have then threatened with a veto, but we would do well to hold onto it and remember how much money the two countries receive from the EU fund. Our rule of law is not negotiable. In addition, there is the question of a European minimum wage. The Commission has an ambition to raise the social level in the European Union, and that is a very good ambition. But the film breaks when the European Commission presents a draft law on minimum wage. Firstly, because it is doubtful whether there is any legal basis in the Treaty for regulating the area. Secondly, in Denmark we leave pay issues to the social partners and, of course, this must continue. Thirdly, we do not want regulation now or in the future that can undermine the Danish working model either directly or indirectly. And unfortunately that is what I see the Commission's proposal for. We're vertically opposed to that. Then there is the statement on the development of EU cooperation. It contains many good elements, and we look forward in the SF to discussing them all, even when we are about to start the conference on the future of Europe. I would just like to mention a few cases which are worryingly absent from the statement. Some have been accused by the other rapporteurs, among others. the fight against tax havens, which are almost completely out of the Minister's statement, except one word at the end. I was very surprised because that fight is more important than ever, and the Minister himself has delivered incredibly good results on that agenda while he was sitting in the European Parliament. So that puzzles me. Has the government completely forgotten that fight? Because at least we don't have it in the SF. I would have liked that to be done a little better. I believe that the Minister is also concerned about this, and he can elaborate on it if he has the opportunity to do so. Another important issue, which was somewhat conspicuous by its absence, is, after all, the fight for more openness in the institutions of the European Union. We have, of course, in the past and I would like to repeat the call made to the government that we have thrown us wholeheartedly into the matter with all our strength, because the secrecy of the Council of Ministers is a major problem and actually constitutes the democratic deficit that the European Union is often accused of. This is one of the keys to making European cooperation more popular. That is why I am thinking that this is something that we must also devote more effort to. With that I would like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117175527	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117175530	Thank you to the SF's rapporteur for the speech. I have two questions. Firstly, the SF rapporteur mentioned that it would like to see payments made quickly from the Recovery Fund. Now it is the case that Hungary and Poland have blocked the creation of this whole fund. This is something that must be approved in all countries, so they can do so. Then there are, like two options: either that there are no payments from it or that sufficient concessions are made to Hungary and Poland so that they accept it. Which of the roads does SF mean to choose? The second question was that the SF rapporteur mentioned the issue of minimum wages, and I fully agreed with what the SF rapporteur said. I just want to know if this is also the SF's policy in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117175627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117175629	In relation to the first, I would like to reiterate one of my sentences, namely that the rule of law is not under negotiation. In relation to the latter, the SF's position on the minimum wage, both here and in the European Parliament, is the one I have outlined. We do not believe that the European Union should interfere in how we establish pay and working conditions in the Danish labour market. Last time I checked with the tough ladies in the European Parliament, who are also sitting there on behalf of the SF, they thought so too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117175702	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Søren Søndergaard further a brief comment? No. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117175707	Thank you for a fine speech but, nevertheless, they support the bill. At any rate, you support a slightly different approach to this than that expressed by Mrs Valentina Berthelsen. And they do so for two reasons: one is that there is also something called solidarity with those who are not Danish, that is, those who are in a labour market where collective agreements cannot be drawn up because the percentage of organisation is too low. That's one reason. The second is that there are also some who have recognised that this will not in any way have any effect on the Danish agreements. Where will Mrs Valentina Berthelsen demonstrate that this will have an impact on the Danish labour market and on wage formation in the Danish labour market? I would very much, very much like to see that, since this Commission bill is basically talking about nothing more than promoting collective agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117175817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117175818	Yes, but, as I said in the speech, we are in solidarity with the idea of ensuring better wage incomes elsewhere in Europe, elsewhere where there are no collective agreements. We just think that the method is wrong and we think that, firstly, because the minimum wage in itself is not a guarantee of proper pay and working conditions; secondly, we believe that collective agreements are a better way of doing so; and thirdly, I would not be as sure as Mr. Jens Rohde, in relation to the wording of the proposal put forward by the Commission, is that it can guarantee that this will not mean anything to the Danish labour market. That is precisely what concerns us, for example. The trade union movement who sits with this every day. They are worried about whether this is a slippery slope and whether, for example, there is a slippery slope. will be an indirect impact on the Danish model. And if there is, it would be disastrous for our way of doing this. That is why I do not really believe that this is the way to promote collective agreements, either in Denmark or in the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117175924	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117175925	I have also been dealing with this for many years, among others. in very close cooperation with 3F. That is funny, because what you say is a bit contradictory: there is no legal basis for it, because on the one hand you say that there is no legal basis for it, and on the other hand you say that the court comes and decides something. Article 155 (1) 1 point (b) is the place where the legal basis is used to support proper working conditions. And where you then have the security in relation to the court decisions, is in paragraph 1. 5, which states that there must be no direct effect on wages, and this should in fact reassure the SF that it is possible to promote better working conditions for all and that at the same time further judicial initiatives have been neatly closed down.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117180011	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117180012	That certainly does not reassure me, just as it does not reassure the trade union movement. And I would really like to challenge the idea that there should be a legal basis for this, because there are very different opinions about this, even when we ask in Brussels and with the lawyers in the Commission and in the Council for that matter. So, I think we should start by asking, in principle, whether this is allowed at EU level at all, because I do not think so. Secondly, we can consider whether the proposal is being pushed through and what we can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117180042	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117180045	Of course, it calls for praise when the SF's rapporteur rejects the EU's involvement in Danish pay and labour market matters. What may then wonder is why the SF believes that the EU should then interfere in, for example. Danish media relations or the freedom of assembly or other principles of the rule of law. I simply do not understand that. In other words, one can take such a sober and clear position in relation to labour market policy and say: here and no longer! The European Union should not interfere. In the same speech, however, the view is that the European Union should interfere in completely fundamental matters relating to the interpretation of our constitution. Can Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen explain that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117180134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117180138	It's a little unclear to me exactly what it is, sir. Morten Messerschmidt refers to. A concrete example would be nice, because I am now the new rapporteur. Having said that, however, I or any other SF are not particularly concerned about the European Union in principle. We do not think this is appropriate. In some areas, for example: In an area where we have a collective collective labour market in Denmark with the Danish model, it is very inappropriate, also because we can see that it might work elsewhere and is backed up by it by, for example. Sweden. And in other areas, we can see the common sense and the fruits of strong EU cooperation on some of the values we have in common. That will probably be my initial answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117180219	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117180222	Well, Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen does not need to convince me why the European Union should not interfere in wage relations. We are in complete agreement on that. I just noticed that in her speech Mrs Valentina Berthelsen said that it was a good thing that the European Union could intervene if things were done within the rule of law that Mrs Valentina Berthelsen did not like. It could, for example, be done. The European Union then did not like the rules we have for party support in Denmark. Why is it, when the European Union is not to interfere in wage formation, that, for example, Mrs Valentina Berthelsen and the Socialist People's Party want the EU to interfere and now I become so much more specific about Danish transparency rules in relation to party support?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117180252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117180253	I am not very familiar with transparency rules in relation to party support, but I would very much like to continue that conversation with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt outside the hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117180304	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117180323	First of all, I would like to thank you for your statement. Secondly, I would like to say that there are a great many things that could be touched upon in this discussion, and it is clear that this period we have been in since we had the last discussion I think we had in February, that is. 8 months have passed since the sign of the corona. And, of course, it has provided a framework for everything that has happened in the European Union. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that the fundamental problems of the European Union and the fundamental challenges facing the European Union, the Member States of the European Union, the European Union and Europe are in fact the same: the threefold crisis: on the one hand, the climate crisis, on the other hand, the social crisis and, on the other, the crisis in the rule of law. When we look at the climate crisis, there is no doubt that green measures are being adopted in the European Union. Surely there is no place in the world where green measures are not adopted. Our only view is that you have to see every green approach, not for yourself, but for what is necessary. If you think that it is right that we should achieve a certain objective by 2050, and you think that the line laid down in the Paris Agreement is right, then it is not just any step that is good. Then there are steps that are too small and too limited and that do not bring us sufficiently close to the goal. And there we just have to say that there we had an historic opportunity, with the MFF, to really put meat and blood on a climate policy, and it was not exploited. It is not because the MFF is not intended for more to happen in some places than it was before; that is something we can see if it does, it will show the future. But the MFF itself doesn't guarantee it by any means. And we have had the discussions repeatedly, that is to say the whole thing about automatically counting agriculture as green, and that port business is involved with a certain climate effect, etc., without any real idea. But, above all, we must say that the objectives set for the European Union, or which we can expect to be very soon, are too limited in relation to achieving the objective. After all, we have had discussions in the Parliamentary Committee on Europe on whether the government should set greater objectives. The government has rejected this, and the government has rejected it on the relatively good grounds that it was not expected to get it through and that it would therefore isolate itself, which in itself is a recognition of the problem. In this way, we believe that, unfortunately, the European Union is not a solution to the climate crisis, even if there is a lot of green action; part of the problem is still missing. We must admit that we look with great interest at the recent statement by Boris Johnson that UK petrol and diesel vehicles will be banned from 2030. After all, it is a freedom that you have when you are not a member of the European Union. In other words, you have the opportunity, if you want, to take radical, drastic steps to ensure climate improvements. This is not something that the rest of us can do, at least not if we want to act in accordance with EU law. The second point is the social crisis, which cannot be said to have made much progress. If sir... Jens Rohde was here, he would undoubtedly mention that we will get that with the minimum wage. But there's one very fundamental thing I don't understand about that minimum wage. And that is the fundamental point: if there are countries that think that it is a good idea to have a minimum wage, why do they not just introduce it? So, what is the reason why the European Union needs to take action to introduce a minimum wage? We know that Germany is very much in favour of a minimum wage, but Germany has a minimum wage. True, it's not really for a living, but they could just change that for themselves. And if people want a minimum wage in the various countries, they can just vote for some politicians who promise them a minimum wage. Well, it's very hard to see why the European Union should be involved in this, especially when we know what it means to involve the European Union in this area. In other words, when we joined the European Union at the time, we were promised that we would break the nuts ourselves and the labour market would not interfere. Then came Vaxholm's judgment after a long series of other judgments there were the Rüffert judgment, the Viking Line judgment, the Luxembourg judgment, etc. And when the Vaxholm judgment was being considered in Brussels, or in Luxembourg, it was well, then the then Prime Minister, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, sent a letter down to the Court of Justice in Brussels, and in that letter it says: Hey, hey, stop! It was a condition for the Danish accession to the EU that you did not interfere in labour market policy, and if you still interfere in labour market policy, at least you must not go in and deal with conflict law or restrict conflict law. Mr. Anders Fogh Rasmussen actually in a letter to the court, and the court said "fuck and jump" and decided that it would definitely interfere with it. After all, I think that shows very well the problem that comes into being if the European Union starts to legislate in this area. For then, in a given situation, the European Court of Justice will be able to find some ways. Here was the argument used, the free movement of labour, which, in other words, put employees' rights out of hand. Then there has also been this issue of the crisis in the rule of law, which I think is very serious. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt may be right when he asks: Why do you have to get involved in this and that and that? But you just have to say: it is not human rights to be a member of the European Union. If people want to make a dictatorship, they can of course do so, but it is not a requirement and a human right to join the European Union, nor is it a human right that the others in the European Union do not say: then you cannot be here. Every association has some rules of the game, and the rules of the game must be defined by that association. The question is whether we want such a kind of NATO, where the most bestial dictatorships of the time were Turkey, Portugal, Greece, Spain and so on. So this is for countries that we see as democracies. And where's the limit? Yes, it is clear that there is a political element in that answer. Well, part of that, there's a political element in it, that's in relation to where you set this limit. What is the problem today is that people are being checked against that limit before they become members, but the moment they become members there is no tool for them. And that means that every country knows: if only we behave properly until we get in, then we can be crazy afterwards, and you can't come after us because you have this ingenious Article 7, you have this particular process, which is that if you can just find one ally, you can't really be held to account. In other words, Hungary washes Poland's hands and Poland washes Hungary's hands. Of course, sir. Morten Messerschmidt also said there should be a limit. Could it be imagined that Nazi Germany was a member of the European Union? No, I guess. I mean, it's totally absurd to imagine, even if Mussolini held his hand over Nazi Germany. Of course, you can't imagine it. That is why we need to discuss what we are doing here. It was a crucial thing in the MFF. And the heads of state failed megastort megastort! We have to deal with this in some process in relation to some subsidies where we can do it by a qualified majority. And that is what I have now announced: the recovery facility will not get under way unless the mechanism that can take subsidies from us when we violate human rights or the rule of law is allowed to go through. Then we are in a blocked situation, and then everyone has to do what they want. Well, someone once said: I don't want to be a member of a club that wants me as a member. I think that we must do away with ourselves, which club we want to be in, and I think we must say that if we cannot get through the fact that we can say something to countries and throw out countries that do not comply with the general rule of law, then it is not a club we want to be a member of, then it is not a club for us. That is why the question of the rule of law really leads to a confrontation; a confrontation which may lead to the restoration of the European Union. And that is where we shall see whether all the beautiful principles are really beautiful principles or whether they are just words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117181326	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and first to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117181330	I understand that Enhedslisten's rapporteur is in favour of the European Union having this new rule of law mechanism, in other words, where the European Union can go in and say to countries in fundamental areas such as the press, fundamental freedoms, etc. that what does not work here will be condemned. It is, of course, a perfectly legitimate view to have: that the European Union should have that power. What I just don't understand is that the concern that Mr. Søndergaard earlier expressed, in relation to how the court for example. I should like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. Søndergaard does not hold us back from criticizing. Why is it that sir... Søren Søndergaard does not have the same concern about something as vital as freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, the rule of law, party support rules, etc. There's Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard has no concern that the European Court of Justice has an expansive interpretation style.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117181433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117181435	Well, I think, sir. Morten Messerschmidt also avoids the fact that you can decide for yourself which club you want to be a member of. There may well be some rules in a club called that in summer we play football, and in winter we play bridge, and if you don't want to conform to it, you'll find another club to be a member of. You can easily have a club where you say: the European Union should not interfere in the labour relations of countries through court decisions and internal market rules, but they must, of course, respect basic principles of the rule of law and democratic rules of the game. Of course you can have a club like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117181521	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117181524	I don't dispute that the world has historically been full of clubs and probably hasn't finished breeding crazy clubs. That's not what this is all about. What this is about is the imbalance that is in Mr. President. Søren Søndergaard's argument. In other words, when we are afraid that rules relating to the free movement of workers and services undermine, for example, the rules governing the free movement of workers and services. A system of collective agreements in Sweden is what the Laval judgment is all about. How can it be that there is no concern at all about giving the EU powers to define, for example? the freedom of expression or assembly or fundamental principles of law, as Mr. Søndergaard a little unconcredibly calling it that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117181600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117181602	It is because we believe that there is something that is the basis for international cooperation, and that is democracy, human rights and the rule of law. We think so. And we don't imagine a situation where you have to go in and be nitty-gritty, in terms of how people interpret something. It's a question of if people break decisively with it. So, we do not see for ourselves that the issue of Danish party support legislation should be decided in Brussels, but it is clear that you can do some things that make you get out so far that you can say: Okay, you can't be in this club.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117181638	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117181640	But what are those other clubs, sir? Søren Søndergaard wants to be a member of? I'm having a little trouble finding them. That is one question. The second relates precisely to the rule of law, because I fully agree that there are some fundamental errors, but then we come back to what I think is the problem, namely our Treaty. Article 7 describes how to decide whether a country violates the rule of law, that is to say Article 2, or not. That decision is political. See, sir. Søren Søndergaard a problem in that decision being political? Now that we are talking so much about the courts: we are busy saying, courts, courts, but wasn't it better and let me turn to the question of such a decision being made by the courts, instead of it being a political decision? That is what we are complaining about, namely that Poland and Hungary will have a political influence on their legal affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117181747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117181748	No, because a political decision can be taken within the framework of intergovernmental cooperation. It can easily be binding. We see exactly the same thing in other international assemblies. It is also possible to decide that a country should not be involved and exclude a country. This has happened in the past, for example. Turkey from the Council of Europe, where Turkey has been thrown out because they violated the fundamental rules. So there's no problem with that. It is clear that if you want to have this sort of thing settled by a court of law, you will go into it, sir. Morten Messerschmidt says, with a supranational authority of a completely different nature. We want, and we have said this many times, binding intergovernmental cooperation. That is what we want, that is what we are working for, and in this context there will be no problem whatsoever in deciding politically who can be involved in this cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117181842	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117181844	But that is why I want a Constitutional Court: then you can have a legal decision on whether a country or EU cooperation violates citizens' rights, just as you do in Germany, where every citizen and every base country can file a case with the tribunal in Karlsruhe. If Berlin goes in and takes decisions that they do not have the right to, then the court can be brought up at any time. It could be a very nice device, couldn't it? And then the club thing, which club is it, sir? Søren Søndergaard would like to be a member of?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117181925	Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, It's quite obvious. We've said that many times. That is what we want. We also want to be part of a large number of clubs that exist: we want a strengthened role for the European Council, we want a strengthened role for the OSCE, we want a strengthened role for the United Nations. There are lots of clubs you can be a member of. And then we want cooperation to be found in Europe, and we believe that time is moving in this direction: to find cooperation in Europe where more people can participate on a more equal footing. I think we have to do that now that Britain has resigned; I think we have to work in that direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117182009	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117182012	I have just asked for the floor because I would like to express my great pleasure that Mr. Søren Søndergaard quotes Marx from Parliament's platform when it is Groucho Marx.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117182024	What did Mr. Henrik Dahl? When I do what?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117182025	Sir. Henrik Dahl again.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117182032	I don't want to be a member of a club that wants me as a member is a Marx quote. It's a Groucho Marx quote, and I'm really glad to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117182041	That's a fantastic quote. Maybe the other Marx should have written it too, but he didn't, and I credit the person who wrote it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117182051	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. And the next rapporteur, I can see in the Chamber, is from New Citizens, so here you go. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117182100	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the statement on the development of EU cooperation. 2020 has stood in the sign of the Coronapandemic, and this also applies to the European Union. Physical Council meetings have in many cases been cancelled or limited. Instead, a large number of informal videoconferencings have often been convened at short notice and with late scheduled agendas. We have also noticed this in the Committee on European Affairs, where many cases have been presented in writing and hastily. The European Union has also, as expected, used the crisis to promote the European Union. A recovery fund of 750 billion has been implemented. EUR 5,600 billion. kr. Of the 5,600 billion. kr. in writing. - (FR) Some half of the money must be given as a subsidy, which means that the countries do not have to pay back the money. In practice, it will be a transfer of money from northern Europe, including Denmark, to, among others. Southern Europe. Italy and Spain in particular can expect massive support. It has never happened before in the history of the European Union that countries are borrowing together and transferring the money to selected countries. This is an unprecedented step which breaks with all tradition in the past, because the countries are responsible for their own economy. Of course, if they borrow money, they must also be repaid. It has never been possible to carry out credit transfers between countries in this way in the past, but the Corona crisis is being used as a lever, and then this barrier has now been broken down. And if it has only happened once, it will set a precedent, and it will be easier to do again. That is why it is absolutely crucial if this happens • The European Union will be something quite different than it was before. In addition, Denmark's annual bill for the EU budget will rise dramatically. Denmark's bill will be 4.5 billion. kr. More expensive a year. The EU is working hard to increase its so-called own resources. The fantasy is big. This is a plastic tax. The Commission is invited to submit proposals in the first half of 2021 for new own resources relating to a digital tax and a CO2 Commission will also make proposals on new own resources based on quota trading and work on other own resources, including potentially a financial transaction tax. This is a completely unacceptable slippery slope that is being set in motion. Negotiations on Britain's future relationship with the European Union have been going on over the year, and the negotiation process has also been hampered by the covid crisis. An extension of the transitional period beyond 2020 has not been requested by the United Kingdom, and an agreement must therefore be landed right now. The risk of no deal is real. We still hope in New Citizens that an agreement will succeed, but we will see that in the coming days. The Commission's Asylum and Migration Pact does not adequately address the issue of fundamental causes and incentives for migration in the government's optics. We in the New Citizen agree with that, although we may put something else in the wording. We need to change course and introduce a practice so that people who are trying to get to Europe are rejected. This is the only effective way to stop the influx. Ultimately, only the nation states themselves can solve migration problems. For example, Hungary reacted quickly after the crisis in 2015 and took matters into its own hands by rejecting migrants and maintaining closed borders. The prompt reaction and protection of its own borders were the reason why the influx to Hungary stopped. The so-called solidarity mechanism in the EU's new asylum initiative is yet another ill-hidden attempt to distribute African and Middle Eastern migrants between EU Member States. Fortunately, Denmark is not obliged, by virtue of the legal reservation, to agree to this and I find it difficult to see that the majority of EU countries will accept the proposal. Most countries do not want more migrants, and therefore the only solution is to ensure that they stop applying for it because we show that it is not possible to stay in Europe. The statement mentions that the MFF agreement of the European Council of 21 July established for the first time a direct link between the EU budget and the rule of law. Hungary and Poland have been highly critical of this. Yesterday, Hungary pulled the veto card together with Poland in relation to the funding of the recovery package, and it demands that all countries support it. On the other hand, the European Parliament, which has to approve the budget, is just as keen that the legal mechanism should be there and that it should be restrictive. This development will be closely followed by the New Citizen. We are also opposed to the recovery package and will propose an indicative vote on the subject ourselves. The agreement on the EU recovery package has such far-reaching consequences and introduces such significant increases in Denmark's commitments that the Danes should be consulted. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117182617	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the New Citizens' rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117182626	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the government and to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for preparing this statement on EU cooperation. We welcome that and we take note of it. It's a very Danish statement, because when Danes meet each other, they say hello and hello, and how are things going? And then it is a social convention in Denmark that if you are asked how things are going, you have a duty to answer that things are going well. But then you sit down, and if you're at my age I've turned 60, and then the Health Councils don't apply. Then maybe there'll be a few beers on the table, and then you'll sit around for a while and talk about how well things are going. When some time has passed and the empty beer may have turned into a full beer or two more... then the taboo will be broken, and they say that things are not going so well. Then the real conversation about what you've always had on your heart begins what really matters. And the problem is that, for good reasons, we cannot sit here in Parliament and drink beer and be really Danish. And that's why we're not coming anymore. The report says that things are going very well. Well, great to hear, we're feeling really good too, hey, hey. But it's not going well. It is not going well to close the external borders, and it is simply the alpha and the omega in relation to the political liberal societies we have set up here on the continent. This shows the wave of terror that has recently struck Europe. The limits should be closed in such a way that you can only - and I repeat - get in only if you have the papers in order. So the European Union needs closed borders, as does French President Macron, and right now he is the man to be listened to when it comes to the European Union. Macron also says that the Schengen Agreement must be reinvented, and he says that Turkey must stop sending one nationalist preacher after another through its Directorate for Religious Affairs, Diyanet. Again, President Macron is right forever. That is what is wrong, and that is why it is not going well in the European Union once we have been sitting here and talking seriously about things for a while. So right now President Macron is the man to be listened to in the European Union, along with Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz. You put your finger on the sore points that we are not getting our finger on in the statement here: how do we keep everything that really makes sense to the European Union? This means a democratic and politically liberal culture and way of life. We do not get the debate today because we are Danes, and when we meet each other, things always go well. However, we should at least acknowledge the problems put on the agenda by the French President and our support for the fight against the united European naivists, which the French President also takes. Otherwise, we may end up meeting and going straight to the point and saying that things are going really badly. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117183015	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then we are through the rapporteur's line, and the next person to speak is the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117183029	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to all the rapporteurs. I always think it's uplifting that we're getting around a lot. Although it is a debate on the state of affairs which looks at the period we have been through, we in the Assembly have some fairly far-reaching and inspiring debates in the field of European policy. I think that is also necessary. However, as I said, I would like to thank the rapporteurs. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen mentioned at the beginning that 2020 has become quite different from what we could have imagined. That is why I would also like to start by taking stock of how covid-19 has affected EU cooperation, because it has really done so. I shall now turn to some of the major issues which Mr. Søren Søndergaard is right in not disappearing because we have a global pandemic, although the challenges of dealing with them have only become even bigger and difficult during the pandemic When Covid-19 seriously hit Europe in February, the Member States responded initially with national responses. The aim was to gain control of the infection and to prevent health systems from succumbing. It succeeded in some places, among others. in Denmark, but unfortunately far from anywhere. Thousands of Europeans tragically lost their lives because of the covid-19 in the first wave of the disease, and while each of us reacted nationally, many wanted an effective response from the European Union, since in many ways this is a European crisis. There, I think, we must be honest and say that the EU's competences in the field of health policy are limited. They are also in the consular area, which was another important area in the spring when the stranded Danish and European citizens had to be brought home for hundreds of thousands. At the beginning of the crisis, therefore, the role of the European Union was to ensure a high degree of coordination and sharing of knowledge on covid-19 and Member States' crisis management. This happened, among other things. At a large number of informal meetings such as videoconferences between ministers from the governments of the Member States. In connection with the evacuation of stranded citizens, the EU showed, among other things: in Danish request its worth in the places where the Member States jointly negotiated evacuation permits with third countries with almost hermetic border closures. And at the request of others. Denmark put EU delegations in several places leading the important coordination and knowledge sharing. The national restrictions during the first wave put the internal market under pressure in several places in Europe. We must remember that too. Denmark was one of the countries that quickly responded with support to keep supply chains open to secure goods on the shelves. With Danish support, the EU introduced so-called green roadways for freight transport, and the national restrictions on protective equipment, medical equipment and products, which we saw several places, were replaced by joint purchases and export controls. In the economic field, the EU has responded by adopting measures to support European economies and ensure jobs and employment and a pragmatic application of State aid and competition rules. It gives us more tools to deal with the crisis. In addition, as you know, the EU multiannual budget for 2021-2027 as well as the recovery funds, where there is a new development. I would like to come back to that a little later. Then I would just like to mention, as Mr. Peter Seier Christensen mentioned that it has been a challenge in relation to Council meetings and cooperation with the Folketing, because many of them were held virtually at short notice and had an informal character. And one of the things the Danish Government has fought for, also in Brussels, is that we will have more normal procedures so that we have proper and timely and careful involvement of the national parliaments and once again get the process going. I think that is very important. Then I will deal with some of the other matters which have been of great importance this year. I do not want to go into all the elements of the written statement... you can study it yourself... but I would like to stress some of the important matters. The EU Heads of State or Government reached agreement in July of this year on the EU multiannual budget for 2021-2027, a recovery fund and a rule of law mechanism. We have also debated this here today. There was and is much at stake for the countries, so the negotiations in July were tough and long, and the compromise reflects a sensitive balance. I can now understand that Hungary and Poland have raised doubts about the overall agreement on the EU's multiannual budget and the recovery fund, which, of course, requires unanimity because they cannot accept the outcome of the negotiations on the rule of law mechanism. There should be no doubt about where the government is in this matter: we expect nothing more or less than that the July agreement will, of course, be respected. As you know, the agreement establishes for the first time a link between the rule of law and the EU budget. It is, of course, important that we finally approve the EU's multiannual budget and the recovery fund, so that money can come out to work for growth and job creation in Europe, while at the same time promoting green conversion and digitalisation, but of course we cannot compromise on our common values. 2020 has shown that the EU and its Member States take the climate agenda seriously. The Commission has proposed reduction targets of at least 55%. in 2030 as part of the EU climate contribution to the Paris Agreement and the road towards a climate-neutral EU by 2050. In Denmark, we can sometimes forget that not all countries, even in Europe, are quite as ambitious in relation to the green transition as we ourselves are. The new and strong green direction in the EU therefore takes place on a backdrop of active Danish climate diplomacy. For it is clear that we will not reach the Paris agreement if only countries like Denmark change their minds. That is simply not enough. We must put maximum political pressure on other countries and, with the green solutions in our hands, we must show the rest of the world that it is possible to work towards a climate-neutral society. Then I believe that more countries will join the wagon. The European Union has held together in the negotiations with Britain, which left the Union on 1 February this year. An agreement is being negotiated intensively as soon as possible, but the clock is ticking and we are approaching a point where there will be no time for an agreement before the end of the transitional period at the end of the year. There is still a risk that we will not succeed at all with an agreement that we will end up in a so-called cutting edge scenario at the turn of the year. In the government we want the closest possible relationship with Britain with balance, rights and duties, and I continue to hope that an agreement will be reached in time, but if not, we in Denmark are ready to deal with the situation. I am very pleased with the close dialogue with the Danish Parliament on the development of the brexite negotiations. In the area of the rule of law, it is clear that individual countries in the European Union continue to face major challenges. The governments of Poland and Hungary challenge the EU's fundamental values. It cannot be said clearly enough that if the European Union is to function, if the Member States are to be able to stand together and show solidarity with each other, then we also need to be fully in agreement on the basic rules of the game. The rule of law must be respected and respected in all countries. Because if it is not respected, it is a challenge for the whole of European cooperation. I myself take the lead in that discussion and have worked hard to create support for a mechanism that ensures, for the first time, a direct link between the rule of law and the payment of EU funds. It has been a top priority for Denmark. Migration is still high on the EU agenda. A significant initiative is the Commission's proposal for an asylum and migration pact. It is good that discussions on how the European Union can strengthen its efforts are now under way. Asylum and migration are a common challenge on which it would make sense to work together. Having said that, the government believes that the Commission's proposal does not solve the root causes of irregular migration and the problems we face in Europe. I am doing a great deal of explaining this to my colleagues and the Commission, in other words to the Government's vision of a fair and humane asylum system, which must fundamentally end the incentive to seek Europe as an irregular migrant. In recent times, unfortunately, we have again seen a wave of terrorist attacks in Europe. These are not just attacks on individual countries. This is an attack on the fundamental democratic values that we share in Europe. That is why I have stressed to my fellow Members that Denmark is united with France and Austria in the fight against terrorism. Attacking them is an attack on all of us. Those in the Chamber who would argue that Denmark is not standing shoulder to shoulder with France and is completely ahead with support simply speak for better knowledge. Here I am also talking about Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left. The Left speaks against better knowledge. Left knows that Denmark has been at the forefront of the fight with France in defending freedom of expression, for example. Different cynical and hostile reactions have been from Turkey's President Erdogan. The European Union has reacted sharply. It is unfortunate to see Erdogan pulling his country further and further away from the values on which Europe is founded. In our eastern neighborhood, too, we must not forget that our values and interests are under great pressure. Russia has once again shown by the poison attack on Navalny that they are willing to override international ground rules. This is totally unacceptable, as I also expressed in clear terms when I met with Lavrov in Moscow. I am pleased that we in the European Union have been able to react quickly and reach agreement on sanctions against those responsible. Because that behavior must and must have consequences. In Belarus we see how, unfortunately, the time of dictators in Europe is not yet behind us. As soon as it became clear that Lukashenko would strike down the democratic movement with reprisals, I pressed for the EU to adopt new sanctions. It did so in the European Union, but unfortunately it did so too slowly. The European Union must be able to act faster, more decisively when our values and interests are at stake. With a new incoming administration in the United States, there are hopes for even stronger transatlantic cooperation. It will be a high priority for the European Union to establish good contacts with the new administration and work for common solutions in the multilateral institutions. This applies to addressing the climate challenges identified by several of the rapporteurs, as well as to addressing the challenges and opportunities of China's development and increasing global influence. Faced with the battle of Covid-19 for the EU's partners on the African continent, team Europe provided a highly coordinated and visible response. It is important that the European Union has a strong and strategic partnership with Africa, which creates hope for young Africans for a future on the continent. Finally, I should also like to turn to the domestic debate on the European Union. As I have stressed several times today, listen to Denmark in the European Union. We have a great influence on many of the decisions that set the direction for the European Union in the coming years. However, my view is that, in the future, European policy must reflect even more the desire of the Danes and our businesses and our civil society in relation to where the European Union should move. That is why I have also taken the initiative of the Eigtvedsdialogues, which have come off very well. Next year there will be more debates when the covid-19 allows it, and I know that you too in the Folketing will continue to engage in a strengthened EU debate in Denmark. There will be plenty of opportunity at the forthcoming conference on the future of Europe, as Mr. Jens Rohde mentioned where citizens and parliaments will play a key role in bringing forward visions and ideas. It is a conference of ideas that must enrich our European debate and set a direction for the future that I think we need so much in the light of the crises we are facing. Whether it is the Covid-19, whether it is the Brexit crisis, whether it is the pressure on fundamental values and the rule of law mechanisms, it is important that we also formulate some ideas on how we develop our cooperation constructively with clear visions. I believe that, in the end, EU cooperation is about making a positive difference for citizens. I hope that the government and parties in the Folketing will be able to contribute to this in the years to come. I would also like to thank the SF rapporteur for pointing out important things. When, for example, it doesn't work. As far as the fight against tax havens and tax evasion is concerned, it is crucial that we see that strong EU cooperation can deliver fair taxation. For that is what helps to finance our common welfare society, our health, our education, our care for the elderly and everything that also makes us have European welfare states. In relation to more openness, I would also like to sign and say that we are in complete agreement on the part of the government. We are working for more openness. It is very important that decision-makers, including European governments, can be kept up to date with the decisions taken. More openness creates more public debate and more democratic anchoring, and I am convinced that if the European Union has more open cooperation, there will also be greater interest and greater popular support for the whole project. So thank you for a good debate, and thank you for signing the statement presented by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117184353	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117184355	Thanks for one in many ways a good speech, because it rarely compared to what else you listen to was a speech on the grounds of the community and not just on a national premise that we so often hear. Now, I don't need to do anything like Mr. Knox. Henrik Dahl to drink seven beers to destroy the good mood. I was designed to destroy the good mood. Dear Minister, sometimes it would be nice if the government ministers would throw away all the ideas and prepared speeches after a debate ad hekenfeldt to. It would be nice if they would sit down and take the starting point of the debate that is actually in the Chamber instead of just mentioning it in a bedding when you read all those who so prepared things up. Then it might be that perhaps ministers could also be part of a lively debate, just a call from here. And, of course, the unpleasant question is: when will the Foreign Minister call for negotiations on a new European political agreement, as stated in the memorandum of understanding?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117184503	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117184505	I have certainly started from answering many of the rapporteurs to the important things they raise here in the debate, for example. The climate struggle, the fight for social justice, fair taxation and the covid-19 debate are being pointed out. I think it is very important that, in addition to having an abstract and visionary debate, we should also have a debate on some of the specific problems we face in Europe today. That is why I am also pointing it out in my presentation here. But thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. After all, I think it is insanely crucial that we get a proper process forward to a new European political agreement, and that is something that the government has talked about with the parties. I would like, as soon as possible, to set in motion the fact that we are taking what I think is Mr. President. Jens Rohde's own idea, some thematic debates on some of the elements that such an agreement could contain, for example. in the area of climate change, how do we do this? What do we want? I think this is very important, namely that we do it together.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117184611	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117184614	I think I have mentioned several specific problems in EU cooperation, and I note that at least I have not really received an answer as to how to resolve them. But peace be to it. I would like to follow up on the reply given by the Minister to Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen. Is it to be understood that the government is in favour of opening the EU Council of Ministers? After all, that would be a huge European Parliament is about something open. Now all we need is the Council of Ministers, and that could be a step forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117184651	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117184654	Fortunately, we have open agenda items on some of the items in the Council of Ministers, and it is possible that it should be extended further. It is also important that there are sometimes closed negotiations in order to achieve some goals. What I am talking about is that in general here in Denmark, together with like-minded countries, we have worked for greater openness in the work of the Council, better access to documents and access to see who holds what positions, so as to have a real debate. We know this from our time in the European Parliament, and it can help to strengthen it. I would also like to say frankly that not all countries in the European Union share the same enthusiasm for openness that the Danish Government has.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117184735	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117184738	I am so pleased that the Minister says so clearly that there is no doubt about the government's position on the defence of the rule of law mechanism and the agreement made between the European Parliament and the Council. I am very pleased about that; that is to say, only the agreement from that point of view. Having said that, what does that mean in concrete terms? In other words, there is a threat from Hungary and from Poland that the recovery facility as a whole will not be launched. This means that the money that is waiting to be paid cannot be paid out. And then there are two options: either you make some concessions to Hungary and Poland, or you accept that the recovery mechanism is not being paid out and that you may have to find another way to do so. I understand from the Minister that he is clearly saying that we will stand firm on the rule of law and that we will not make any concessions in this area. So what do we do?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117184844	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117184846	I mean, as I mentioned, if I may be so free of Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard, there is also a third possibility, and that is that all 27 governments, all 27 Member States, will live up to what they agreed here in July among the Heads of State or Government, that is, the package that was agreed, including a rule of law mechanism that makes a direct link between compliance with the fundamental values of the rule of law and the EU budget. And I expect that to be the case for Hungary and Poland too, and that is why I hope we will achieve that, because we owe it to us. We are in the midst of a covid time with major economic challenges, with unemployment and economic crisis, and we need to make the recovery and the MFF work. We owe this to the European countries and to the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117184929	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117184931	I do not want to blame the Foreign Minister in general for the naiveness of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. But the disagreement we are now seeing was announced immediately after that mechanism was adopted. After all, Hungary and Poland went out immediately and interpreted it in a completely different way. Orbán celebrated it as a huge victory, and I am sure the Minister has noticed that too. Therefore, if it is as the Minister suggests, that is to say that it is realistic, what is the Minister's belief that Orbán should suddenly have changed his position since the summit, when this mechanism was adopted?
ParlaMint-DK_20201117185012	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117185014	Firstly, I have the expectation that all 27 countries will stand by what they agreed at the summit. These were long and difficult negotiations that were dragging on, and it became almost an historic summit. Secondly, there is an agreement now between the Council and the European Parliament, also in relation to the rule of law mechanism, which has been adopted as such; there is a majority in favour of it. So I expect that the Recovery Fund and the MFF and the whole package will, of course, go through. And it is clear that, on the Danish Government's part, we are therefore hard on the rule of law and that the fundamental values must be respected. We think it is quite reasonable that when, for example, we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point. If you receive money from the EU budget, And, of course, the link we have created with the mechanism will be targeted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117185103	Then it's mr. Per Larsen. Per Larsen It was a pocket call). Then we've got it with: a pocket call in the Folketing. Actually, I used to. But then we can thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his statement R 8. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. Before moving on to the next item on the agenda, as it says, I would just like to draw the attention of the rapporteurs and the Minister to the fact that the clock in the speaking desk itself does not work. This means that I will be a little more long with the speaking time, but when I stand up, you have approx. 30 seconds left to finish his business.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117185211	The debate is open. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117185237	Thank you for that and never mind that the clock doesn't work, because I'm not going to spend all my speaking time here. It is a very simple and sensible and practical legislative proposal, which is about freeing up some time in the health and care sector and at the same time ensuring that residents with a dementia disease, for example, can be treated quickly and well, so that we use the resources most efficiently and at the same time ensure better conditions for some of our most vulnerable elderly people. As the rules are today, health care treatments must only be started when there is an informed consent from the citizen. After all, there are some citizens who cannot give that because, for example, they have a severe dementia and can therefore be permanently inadvisable. After all, they are so dependent that the consent of relatives or other guardians is obtained. It takes time for employees in relation to things that can be quite simple. It can be a treatment of a urinary tract infection or other very, very simple treatments, which even though they are very simple and very easy to deal with can cause enormous discomfort to those who are waiting for consent to be given to be allowed to recover. It is then given the opportunity to give a general informed consent in smaller health treatments, and it is only common sense to ensure that you can get help, for example, with dementia as soon as possible and at the same time ensure that time is not needed to make up for answers and back and forth, but that you can just fix it for the great benefit of the employees and for the great benefit of the elderly. That is why, of course, we can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117185426	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. No one has signed up for questions or comments, so we need to move on in the rapporteur's line. Mrs. Jane Heitmann from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117185444	Equal treatment for everyone in our health system is a cornerstone of the Danish welfare society. So is the right to decide for yourself and your life. And precisely the right to self-determination is at the heart of the bill here, where the government wants that right, in terms of the treatment of permanent inhabile, to be handed over to the next of kin or guardian. With a yes to the bill here it will be possible for health professionals, if they have obtained the consent of their immediate relatives, to treat permanently ill patients for minor diseases without having to obtain the consent of each minor treatment. I'll get back to that. The consent shall be limited in time. On the left side, we fully acknowledge, as a number of municipalities point out, that it can be difficult to reach relatives who also live busy lives in order to obtain treatment consent for a minor treatment. But it must never become a main argument for restricting constitutional rights. To intervene in individual self-determination must and must be on the basis that it serves the individual and not the system best. But if you can optimize everyday life and the routines of everyday life and thereby free up time, then you must seize the opportunity, but it must not become a slippery path to interfere with the individual's right to self-determination simply because it is only easier for the staff or serves the system. The draft law here deals with temporary treatment consent of permanent infirmity for minor treatments. But what are minor treatments? For example, inflammation of the bladder is mentioned. With summer's stories from the care of the elderly in the back of the head, we in the Left believe that much more clarification is needed about what minor treatments mean in relation to the individual patient. For it is true that for one patient bladder inflammation can be managed with a minor treatment, but for the other patient bladder inflammation can be the first sign of something much more serious and something that can develop into a life-threatening situation. And last but not least, and perhaps most seriously, a bladder infection can be a sign of caring failure. Just think of Else Marie Larsen, whom we got to know this summer when she hung helpless on TV 2's documentary in a lift over the bed and sat with a diaper filled with smelly stools in a wheelchair and had bladder inflammation. It was unworthy and obscene. I don't want the bill here unplugging the next of kin. It will be deeply worrying if relatives are disconnected because it is easier not to have to spend time contacting them at every treatment. Perhaps it is the next of kin who could be the one who became aware that something was wrong. And it is no secret that we in the Left want to strengthen the involvement of relatives, among others. local nursing home boards, where the next of kin also have a place. The next of kin must be seen, they must be heard, and they must be taken seriously. The relatives know the patients best and have to meet their wishes in the situation where they are unable to do so themselves. The starting point of the left is the patient, the citizen and the individual. I have taken note of the response from the Ethics Council, which points to the fact that the Council must at the same time remind you that the informed consent constitutes a cornerstone of health law and arises from the principles of autonomy and respect for the individual, so that it must not be put under pressure. I have also noted that the Elders Case and Alzheimer's Association are positive, but also raises the flag of concern in relation to what minor treatments cover up. We in the Left would like to ask what is behind these minor treatments during the committee procedure. And we are concerned that minor readings are specified in an announcement by the Minister and thus are not clearly defined in the draft law as proposed. Let me therefore repeat: the bill must not decouple the relatives, because it is they who know their loved ones best, just as it is absolutely crucial for us in the Left that consent is given in writing, is voluntary, is limited in time, and that informed consent does not become a sleeping pillow or a slipway away from the fact that the staff must and must inform relatives of both treatment and the condition of the permanently inhabited. The lesson from the summer's focus on the elderly and dignified care is that we need the relatives and their unique knowledge of the individual, just as we need proper record keeping and supervision that works. The Left wants all elderly people to meet with care and dignified treatment, and if an informed consent can contribute to the long-term inhabilation of high quality health care, then we are in, but it must be without compromising the integrity of the individual. The Left can support the bill, but we have a number of points of clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117185942	That was impressive time! It's completely at the time, despite the fact that there's no clock in the speaker desk. Then it is Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117185955	Thank you very much. For many, this may be a small, insignificant proposal, but in some cases it may result in an attack on the individual. We do not know a hundred percent, because we do not know what it is like for staff to meet the elderly in either a nursing home or home care. We spent a couple of years, I think, discussing coercion against inhabile, and there was a lot of thought. For where is the limit of what is required of a person with dementia who says off and does not want the treatment? Where is the limit between wanting the best for the elderly and perhaps doing the opposite for the person concerned? When we had that debate, we said on the part of the Danish People's Party that we only wanted to vote in favour of the bill if we also ensured that there was a treatment testament, which we hope will be filled in by a great many people before they become inhabited. Then you are allowed to say to yourself: if I become ill-advised, I will not be treated. It can, for example, be done. be for a pneumonia. I take the view that if one day I get in bad shape it may be driving on a motorcycle that ends badly, or because of a dementia disease I won't actually be treated for a pneumonia; then I'd like to be allowed to die from it. Therefore, for some, a tiny health measure may just prolong the torment in which they have ended up. And that is why it is very important that we know what we are talking about with this proposal. Can these little interventions also be done by force? How do we ensure that it is the welfare of the individual and not the welfare of the staff, that is to say, that you are free to call the relatives? Therefore, it is extremely important that this is done in writing, so that when a supposed consent is agreed with relatives, it is written down and is something that is taken up, because one develops during one's illness. I wouldn't like to see myself or my dear mother being kept alive because there are some who think that it would be best for us. So, of course, we also have some questions about this bill. Because what's a small procedure? How do we ensure that this written procedure is done, which of course also takes time? Is that something you easily skip? How do we ensure that the elderly are also consulted? If someone says you don't want to do this, even if you're insane, then everyone's wish should also be respected. We are positive about the proposal, but will say that this is not just a small proposal. It can suddenly be a very big case if you do something you think is the best, but which actually turns out to be the worst. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117190327	We thank Mrs Liselott Blixt. Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117190336	Do you have two minutes? That's how Thomas asked me when I first met him in the square in Henning. It turned into an hour's conversation. Thomas' sister is mentally handicapped and has lived in an institution for many years. Thomas was deeply distressed by the lack of care for the sister's health. The sister had both urinary tract infection and pelvic inflammation and also severe protein deficiency, and what the staff had called dementia was perhaps more delirious. The sister's nutrition was limited to pasta and ketchup. The last time the sister had eaten a cheese sandwich, she had lost another tooth, and she had concluded a connection herself. Instead, a dentist would have found extensive paradentosis. When Thomas asked the staff how it had come to this and why they had not acted on the many health problems which he could not necessarily discover himself, the answer was that the sister had said no when she had been asked. The demented man, whom I myself had to maintain many years ago, while the doctors laid a very broken arm in plaster, had also said no, even very clearly. Some citizens are just deeply dependent on the primary caregivers to assume responsibility for taking the initiative for treatment, even when the patient does not understand the scope of treatment being crucial to their well-being. Health for mentally exposed citizens is in itself a task that we must carry out better in the future. This proposal is only a small step along the way, as it ensures that health professionals, who are often primary caregivers of long-term ill-advised citizens, have the opportunity to act in the situation. We must also ensure the duty to act. The SF therefore also supports this proposal, but, as other rapporteurs have already said, we must of course ensure that we know what is meant by less treatment, and we must also ensure that the proposal also includes citizens in their own homes, as has been pointed out. And then we must maintain close cooperation with the closest, because we do not need to exempt the closest, because at the same time we have the opportunity to act on a urinary tract infection in the situation. I think this is an important proposal that we are dealing with, and that is why we are also supporting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117190639	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117190646	Thank you for that, President. In the Enhedslisten we generally support the bill that relatives or guardians can give a general consent to minor treatments on behalf of permanent individuals, but we also have in the Enhedslisten, like some of the other parties, a few reservations which I would like to briefly outline here. First of all, we note that consent is given only for minor treatments. We are positive about this, as we will not be able to support similar measures for major treatments. In that case, we would fear a slippery path where proper involvement and dialogue with relatives or guardians will not be ensured. We therefore believe, in good agreement with several consultation parties, that it should be defined and fleshed out which minor treatments could be included in general forward-looking consents so that it does not give the slippery path we might otherwise fear. A clear and clear definition should be made of which treatments consent may include, for example: in a model with a gross list, several of which are proposed in the consultation responses. We also believe that there will be a difference between the individual and the individual on a permanent basis, and this should therefore be based on specific assessments and discussions with the relatives, which is also entirely in line with the consultation response from among others. The Alzheimer's Association. We also believe that such consent should have a maximum duration. We also note that it remains to be actively guaranteed or given, depending on who you are, this general consent and that it is a voluntary arrangement. It is therefore not a move away from involvement and consent, but rather a way to ensure rapid and dignified treatment for minor treatment needs and a way to ensure that, where there is a need for involvement and specific consent in the event of major treatment needs, involvement must take place and the specific consent is given before major treatments are started. That is why we also believe that this proposal does not help to get us further away from a supported decision-making process, such as the one we are discussing today. The Institute for Human Rights raises concerns about this in their response to the hearings, but of course we in the Enhedslist are following very closely and we would like the Minister to explain that in the course of the committee procedure. However, as I said at the outset, the Enhedslisten supports the bill, and I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117190911	Thank you. Then it's mr. Per Larsen from Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117190920	Thank you. I can say on behalf of the Conservative People's Party that we also support the proposal. Of course, we are also looking forward to the committee's reading, because there have been some very good consultation answers with some attention points that we must, of course, take into account in the work. However, as I said, our support for the proposal has been given.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117190944	Thank you, sir. Per Larsen. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117190950	I felt that way when I read this proposal, in the first place when you move into it: no, damn it no more state, now it stops. But as I read myself further and further down into the proposal, I met things that reassured me, that is, freedom, choice, the involvement of relatives. This reassured me very, very much, because in this proposal, in my opinion, you actually think about the relatives and think about how to create a daily life and a situation for those who also make it easier in their everyday lives to have perhaps an elderly relative who has dementia. I understand the concerns about putting fence posts around what it is for diseases and what it is for some treatments, this must be. I think we should take a look at that. I like the idea of a gross list where the next of kin, together with the staff, can choose what the next of kin thinks is reasonable and what they want. I would like us to dive into that, because it would provide an even greater freedom for the relatives who can create a good old age for the demented. So these are the words from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117191122	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117191137	Thank you for the floor. In our very small parliamentary group we work in such a way that we get to the group meeting on Tuesdays a document setting out the recommendations for all matters in the Folketing in that week, and there is a proposal for what we might think. If the proposal is yellow, it means that we will have to discuss it in greater depth at the group meeting. And that's how we've felt about Bill L 101. What would we think of that? We end up voting in favour. Before I became a member of the Folketing, I worked on doing, I wouldn't say market analysis, because it wasn't against the market, but different forms of empirical studies. And one of the things we have spent a lot of energy investigating is something called the Patient Handbook, which is made by the Danish Society for Patient Safety. There we have done a lot of single interviews and focus groups about this Patient Handbook. And what the Danish Patient Safety Society bases for the Patient Handbook is that many patients really benefit from having a doctor's sitter because they can have cognitive challenges in conducting this conversation. It is in the same way with ongoing treatments: it is actually beneficial for patients. One of the things that particularly impressed me was an interview I had with a man who was a lawyer and whose wife suffered from dementia. And it was actually the man who made a lot of decisions about how this course of treatment should be organized for his wife. This man, who was a lawyer, said: Every day it is the case that skilled doctors bend the rules, because they know they have to ask me. The lawyer says: they bend the rules and they bend the rules rightly because it makes no sense to ask a person who is demented how the treatment should be organised. It made a significant impression on me to hear all these statements when we examined how this book was going to work. I really think that what the bill here does is to legalise something that skilled doctors and nurses do actually implicitly today, namely to ask a son, a daughter, a man or a very close friend or friend: what is the best thing to do here? You know the person. What do you really think he will when the person has difficulty answering for himself? What this lawyer I'm referring to said was that the staff are doing the right thing in these situations. It is therefore a little wrong, of course, that when they do the right thing, strictly speaking, it is not legal. That's what's gonna change with the bill here. I'm not so concerned that children, spouses or very close friends of a patient • people in that category will the patient the best and can read some signals that are hard to read when you don't know the person as well. So we think that this is a very sensible legislative proposal which, of course, needs to be worked on in committee but which we support. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117191512	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. Then it's the Minister of Health and the Elders.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117191521	Thank you for that and thank you very much to Parliament for the comments on this bill. As I have said, we want to offer the opportunity to permanently inhabit patients' immediate relatives or guardians or future administrator to give a generally informed consent to less medical treatments of the patient. That's what this is about. The aim is to ensure that those patients who are not able to take care of their own interests still receive the best treatment they need and at the time they need it. Today, health care professionals must always contact the immediate relatives of a patient who is permanently ill if the patient is to be treated. And no matter how much or how little treatment is involved, and regardless of the fact that a capable patient would probably give consent to such treatment without any hesitation or at least without major consideration. We therefore propose, by means of the bill, to give the relatives the opportunity to give this general informed consent so that they do not have to be contacted every time the health care staff consider initiating treatment. This will benefit the long-term inexperienced patient, who can receive the minor treatments that are deemed necessary without having to wait for the next of kin to be able to obtain consent for such minor treatment. The proposal also intends to reduce the time spent by staff to obtain this consent on behalf of the permanently inhabited patient. In addition to the fact that, as I said, the patient's treatment risks being postponed, yes, repeated attempts to get in touch with the next of kin also take time from the health care staff, which could have been better spent on close patient contact, and the close patient contact is needed. The group of permanently inhabited citizens is a large and diverse group, which has in common the fact that, because of their reduced mental capacity, they are unable to deal rationally with proposed treatments. It is a particularly vulnerable group of patients that we are dealing with, who need increased care in their encounter with health care. At the same time, it is important that patients' integrity and self-determination are not restricted to a greater extent than is strictly necessary, and it is therefore essential that the patient be involved in the treatment to the extent that the patient understands the situation and that statements made by the patient are given importance to the extent that they are relevant. There is already an important principle today, and this will of course also apply in the event that a generally informed consent is applied. As can be seen from the bill and also from the debate here this evening in the Parliamentary Assembly, the details of the bill must be implemented, and an announcement must be made, among other things. I should like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Council has not yet taken a decision on this matter, and whether he is aware of the fact that the Council has not yet taken a decision on this matter. I would like to emphasise that the Ministry will involve a broad range of stakeholders with relevant knowledge before such a notice is issued, and it is crucial that it becomes relevant and clearly defined treatments which could be implemented on the basis of a generally informed consent. Overall, therefore, the draft law intends to ensure treatment for the permanently inexperienced patient when treatment is needed, as well as to release time for the direct contact of healthcare professionals with patients. And it is my opinion that, with the proposed scheme, we can ensure this without compromising patients' integrity and rights. That is why I hope that the draft law will receive a good reading of the committee. I shall, of course, reply to the committee's questions during the debate. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117191924	Thank you to the Minister for Health and the elderly. No one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201117191942	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 18 November, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
