ParlaMint-DK_20200129130005	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129130018	I would point out that any proposals for adoption will be put to the vote tomorrow, Thursday 30 January 2020. This means that there is a limit of 2 hours. This requires a little discipline from all of us so that we can get through all the rapporteurs. But we shall start with the explanatory statement. That is the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Jens Roh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129130053	Thank you, sir. President. As we have a very short time, I think that the question just speaks for itself. And now that we are discussing it in the Parliamentary Chamber, it is on the basis of two wishes. One is that we are, of course, some who want some of the discussions on European cooperation to be made more frequent in the Assembly, because it might be useful to have a wider public debate on the things that are going on, including in the European Committee. The second is that it is no secret that there is no complete agreement as to how the weightings and priorities of the seven-year European budget should be. We are talking about a great deal of money over the next seven years. This is very important, not only for what is happening in the European Community, but also very important for the implementation of the funds that are in our research environments and the agricultural sector and so on. We look forward very much to hearing about the government's priorities and views on the EU budget and how the government will retrieve a mandate from the Folketing. So we will look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129130211	Thank you. Then it is the acting Minister of Finance for Response.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129130221	Thank you for that, President, and also thank the rapporteur for the questioners for the introduction. In fact, as I said in the European Committee here on Friday, when we were discussing whether we should have this urgent question today, I am very pleased that we will be able to debate this important matter in the most important Chamber of all, and that belongs to us, because these are important issues which we will have to spend the next few hours discussing. Because, like the rapporteur for the questioners, among other things: It is about the EU's spending priorities for the next seven years, it is about the distribution of them, and not least about the financing of them, and it is therefore an amount that amounts to a total of 7 500 billion. kr. It is about how we spend the money wisely, so that Europe is stronger, and it is about what is Denmark's fair share of funding, and it is important that we clarify the positions so that we know where all the parties stand. The government has put forward its position, and I would, of course, like to repeat it here today, so that we can have a proper basis for discussing Denmark's priorities. We certainly believe that there is good reason for this. Let me start by highlighting a few examples of the great interests at stake in this debate today and in the decisions we have to take. In Denmark we pay roughly 20 billion. kr. to the EU per year. In fact, we think this is fair, but we are also prepared to pay even more to the European Union. There are a lot of areas where it makes great sense to pool the resources, whether you want to make a pan-European effort. It is quite obvious that there is great added value in joining forces when it comes to, for example. the green transition, the management of migration flows and other areas. The green transition and migration are areas that need to be strengthened, because when we stand together here, there is evidence that we can then really move something. We will therefore give priority to the European Union's migration efforts. A strengthened EU budget must act, among other things. on a significant strengthening of European border management and the protection of external borders, but this is also about the action related to Africa and the neighbourhoods. We must create better prospects for the many young Africans who are considering moving towards Europe. In doing so, we are addressing some of the fundamental causes that cause people to leave their homes and move out, as we know, on often very dangerous routes. The EU must also take the lead in the climate agenda and the fight for a better climate. Therefore, the EU's climate action must and must be given priority over today. First of all, it's about the way we spend the money. Here, we need to think climate into a cross-cutting priority in all spending areas much more than today. The proportion of EU spending directed towards climate objectives must therefore be increased, but it is also important to emphasise that expenditure targets cannot stand alone. There is a need for a better follow-up of the climate action and an increased focus on whether or not the actual climate effect will be achieved. In the end, that is what this is all about. We must work to ensure that the European Union becomes a growth centre in the world, where knowledge and the development of new green solutions are at the heart. This will ensure European competitiveness for many years to come. The European research effort is a good instrument for securing this. But when we spend more money in some areas, we also have to spend less money in other areas. We also have a task to bear in mind in caring for citizens' money. We also have priorities in Denmark, which are regularly discussed in this Things, and which also cost money, and that must also be affordable. And I do not buy the premise that the only way to modernise the EU budget is to spend even more money than the current level, which some people think, and which we have also heard in the debate. The levels of expenditure that some people are proposing will make it much harder for Denmark, and also here in the Chamber, to finance national priorities for, for example, welfare, education, promotion, and what else you might think is needed in the future. Just to mention a good enough extreme example so far in the debate will, for example, be: Parliament and the proposals of certain other countries on a level of expenditure of 1.3 per cent. of the next 7 years for the budget corresponds to a Danish additional contribution of over 11 billion. kr. per year and per year in relation to the current period. It is, after all, clearly not a realistic runway, but it proves how much money is at stake, and we are therefore facing a very great task of prioritising and bringing Denmark's contribution down in relation to the Commission's proposal. The starting point for the negotiations has been the Commission's proposal, which will increase the Danish EU contribution by 6 billion. kr. per year in relation to the current period. We believe that such large increases in Denmark's contribution to the EU are out of proportion to say it directly and we will have to work hard to bring down the additional contribution. Fortunately, we have a good tradition, including here in the Chamber, for a broad consensus on the Danish approach to important EU matters such as the one we have here. This tradition is based on a clear, budget-responsible approach, where we work together to focus on those areas where a common EU effort really does bear fruit. We have been doing this for many years, and it serves Denmark's interests when we work together across the middle and also across changing governments both at home and abroad to ensure a moderate and also modern EU budget, also with a discount to Denmark. I hope we can continue this tradition, and that will make Denmark strong in the very crucial negotiations which are already on the way up in gear. The support from a wide range of parliamentary parties across the traditional blocs will make the Danish voice and the Danish fingerprints on the EU budget even clearer. It sends a clear signal and a strong signal to the rest of Europe. This is also in the spirit that we have set in motion to continue the line taken by the previous government in the EU's budgetary planning. One element of the line is the requirement for a Danish discount. I would like to sign that the rebate was actually invented by the former Left Finance Minister Claus Hjort Frederiksen, who then set a completely new agenda. The mission succeeded in the subsequent Social Democratic-led government, which got the rebate in place with broad support from the Folketing. The discount quickly got on, at least a broad majority in the Danish Parliament used the discount to finance the 2012 tax agreement. That is why the money has already been spent, and if we are no longer to receive a discount, the reality is that there will be a hole in the box from next year and every year until 2027. So there are quite good reasons why we continue to fight to maintain the Danish rebate and stand firm to the demand that we succeeded in negotiating back in 2013. There will ultimately be no one but ourselves to secure this discount, it is our fight for it, and although we are strengthened in relation to our allies and in the joint demand for discounts, it is the targeted Danish effort that is crucial here. It is clear that the discount cannot stand alone. It is ultimately the overall picture that counts and a discount of 1 billion. kr. Of course, if expenditure increases by 11 billion, it will not do much good. kr. We must therefore have knocked on the door if you want to get the level of expenditure down properly, and we have actually, together with our allies, made a good deal of progress already now. We are working right now on the basis of a compromise proposal in which expenditure ceilings have been reduced from 1.11%. of the Commission's proposal for this figure now known, i.e. 1.07%. of bni. There is therefore still a good way down to the 1.0 per cent. It is therefore vital that the government stands firm and has strong support to use its efforts to bring down the level of expenditure in the EU budget. When Britain leaves the EU on Friday, it leaves a huge hole in the box. We clearly believe that the Danes should not pay for the financial gap between 75 and 110 billion. kr. a year, which Britain's withdrawal from the EU leaves behind, so the EU budget must therefore be adapted to an EU of 27 countries, and this must be done in concrete terms by maintaining the budget at 1%. of bni like today. This means that EU spending can increase as the economy grows, and I think this is a fair approach to ensuring that the European Union can continue to fulfil important joint tasks and that expenditure can increase as the economy does. I would like to emphasise, so that it comes as no surprise to anyone, that we are also willing to increase the Danish contribution to the European Union. A level of expenditure of 1%. In fact, the Danish EU contribution will increase by 20%. for this period only. At the same time, I would like to point out that, in addition to this, we have a strong focus on climate action, on the issue of migration, we have a strong focus on research efforts, and, as we also discussed last Friday in the European Committee, the aim is to see it here as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129131250	Thank you. One brief comment from the rapporteurs is now possible. The first person to ask for the floor is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129131257	Thank you. With only one question here and now, I really think that the most important thing is to talk about what the Minister spends the most time on, namely the Danish contribution to the budget. Then we can take all the content, which ought to be what we actually spent the most energy on, afterwards. But instead of just talking about Danish contributions, I would like to hear the government's position on the EU's own resources, i.e. how you can also strengthen the side of what everything else will just do, that countries should contribute less, because we are better at creating money for our budget together. I am thinking in particular of some of the ideas that have emerged from the new Commission in connection with their European Green Deal about a CO2 There have been many other things in play too. Is this something that the Danish Government seems to want to work for, that is to say create new own resources and also look a little beyond what we usually do when it is we do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129131352	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129131353	Either way, I think that with the level of ambition that the government agrees with, set on the green agenda in Europe, we will be discussing the issue. One of the things that has already been mentioned, which we have discussed, also in the Committee on European Affairs, is the question of a plastic packaging tax, and it is also the quota system that could be an option. These are some of the things that we would like to take part in looking at. However, I think it should be remembered that we were also discussing this Friday when we considered this to be, if you like, a money tree. It's not. But there is no doubt that this is one of the things we are going to discuss. After all, we are in common here in Denmark about a very ambitious climate policy; we have adopted a climate law with a 70-percent reduction in CO2 by 2030 Something is going to happen at home and Europe is on its way in the same direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129131456	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129131457	Well, it's always reassuring when a social democrat says that taxes don't mean that the money is just hanging on the trees. There I hope that we can keep the government on track too when we talk about a number of other connections at home because that's true, of course. Now, what I really think is very significant for the government's approach is that the Minister first really began to talk about the environment and research and migration, that is, the substance itself, when the President of the Folketing had risen up and shown that the speaking time was over. Everything else sounds like a calculator liberalism. And it is not because I call it the Minister I know that this is how the Minister saw it last time. I'm just saying that the minister sounds and that's because it's all gonna be bookkeeping talk like that instead of saying what direction we're going to take in Europe. That is why I would like to know whether the government will give priority to research, migration and the environment and climate as much as it prioritises the rebate and the 1-percent budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129131612	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129131613	It is fair to say that one of the reasons why I sounded a little upset was that many years in here have taught me that when the President gets up, it's time to finish I didn't reach my whole speech. There is no disagreement whatsoever as to the importance of Europe being at the forefront of climate action, of better priority being given to combating migratory flows, and of strengthening research efforts. As I said in my introduction, the government's view of the European Union is that if anywhere in the world there are all the gears for the engine that must make Europe a strong centre of growth. It is a question of developing a green agenda; it is a question of strengthening research efforts, but it is also a question, as Mr. Jens Rohde and I have discussed earlier in my previous role as Minister of Justice... how we can secure an internal market with open borders when there are gaps in the external borders. That is why we need that effort and we can do it together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129131723	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129131724	Thank you. The Minister now put forward the idea that the government was ready to pay billions more to the EU. It may come as a surprise to some, but it certainly makes me ask two questions. One question is: does this mean that the Minister does not believe that it is possible to make dramatic redistributions within the current EU budget, strengthening the fight against climate change, strengthening the fight for the environment and ensuring more research? I just mention agricultural subsidies, which in many countries are coal-black agricultural subsidies, which means that CO2 The second question is: will the government help to guarantee that the increase that the government is going to make in the EU budget is not to be paid by ordinary people? The last time we heard that the rebate went to a tax reform that benefited the richest. So will the Minister promise that an increase will be taken from the richest in this country and that ordinary employees will not contribute to that increase?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129131834	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129131835	In relation to the first question, Mr. Søren Søndergaard as a former member of the EU Committee on Budgetary Control is that not what it is called? The desire that we should be given priority within the framework also shares the government's view. When you want to maintain, as the government wants and attaches decisive importance to our will, the budget's rate of development, if you like, at 1%. It is clear that, as a basis for this agreement, priority must be given within the framework. That is why we are going to see priorities where we need to spend less money on what can be said is such traditional spending as agriculture, structural funds and areas where added value is popularly said to be overlooked. These are some of the discussions that we are entering into, which is why it is a discussion in which the whole of the Committee on European Affairs and the Folketing has an interest. Whoever will then have to pay for the increase in expenditure is determined by the general organisation of economic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129131943	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129131944	Thank you for your fine speech against the agricultural and structural funds. It goes the wrong way, so to speak, according to the wishes of the government. And then I was thinking, 'Now we're just a few days before brexit' whether the minister might be inspired by a former British Prime Minister, Madam Thatcher, who was so incredibly good at saying no. It is as if the Danish Government in changing couleur has very difficult to get that little word over its lips. Can the Minister not confirm that the legal basis for this debate is Article 312, where everyone has to agree, which means that the government has a right of veto? So the whole of this poem-kin-cule that you are building up about how difficult it is could actually disappear if you just said: no, we will not pay more for the EU's overall budget; on the contrary, we will pay less and you cannot force us to do so. The only problem is that the government does not want to put itself in a situation where it cannot be forced.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129132053	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129132054	Morten Messerschmidt is quite right in what is the Treaty starting point, but what is then the government's negotiating strategy has proved to be the most durable. Whether it is a Social Democratic Finance Minister who is standing here or whether it is, for example, about it. was a Left Finance Minister who stood here, so experience has shown that for a small country with a very open economy and clear interests in being part of the very significant benefits of the European Union, it is basically about clear goals and strong alliances. That's what the government's strategy is. That is what was the former VK government's strategy. That is what was the strategy of the S-SF-R government. And that is the mandate on which we had exploratory discussions last Friday and which we will also be discussing here on Friday. This is the common thread of the efforts made by the government across the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129132149	Then it's Katarina Ammitzbøll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129132151	Thank you, Minister. It is good to clarify what the line is in relation to the budget. The Minister said that the budget now needs to be adjusted because of brexit and that many millions are being pulled out of the box. After all, the English were net contributors. Does the Minister have any instructions on how to adapt the EU budget? Is there anything that needs to be done less, and is that something that you want to discuss with the others in, can you say, your alliance of those who are budget-restrictive?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129132228	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129132229	In other words, it can be said that basically I do not think that there is a difference between the priorities when it comes to modernising the budget and the tools for what was used by the former government of VK and this government. In other words, it is about clear objectives and strong alliances, and it is about having a goal of how much the EU budget should grow, what it is about priorities we think money should be spent on and what it is about challenges Europe is facing. Climate, migratory flows and research are one of the things the government wants to strengthen its efforts in relation to. There it is not only important to have clear goals, but it is also important to have strong alliances. For the reality is that only with other countries can we strengthen that work, and that is why we will be looking at how Europe will then become Bigger and Bigger and Smaller and Narrower, as they say. What are the priorities from traditional expenditure on agriculture, structural funds and other areas where added value can be said to be overlooked? That is what is actually being done.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129132335	Then it's Halime Oguz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129132337	Thank you. And thank you for a fine post. In the SF, we are actually very interested to hear whether the government can guarantee that the fact that the government is so jumped up on this rebate does not weaken the priorities that the government has, such as climate, rule of law principles, research and migration. Can the government guarantee that we will not be weakened in our negotiating position in relation to these issues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129132414	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129132415	It is not something that the government believes weakens our negotiating position, that is, the weights we have put in. We are fighting for a rebate; we are fighting for a ceiling on the EU budget. And within that framework, we can strengthen the climate action, and we can also ensure a focus on the instrument, the rule of law mechanism, which must help to ensure that the fundamental values of the European Union, which we share and which are good, can be intact. That is why we fully support the proposal for this rule of law mechanism, which we also discussed last Friday, to prevent EU funds being paid out to Member States that do not comply with democratic rules. We believe this to be compatible, and I believe that with the Commission's significant proposals and with the things that have started to happen in some Member States with Denmark on the front line, it will be seen in the climate area that some of what will be a driving force in the years to come in the European Union is climate action.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129132521	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129132523	Thank you. Now is not the first time we have this debate. We also met on Friday in the European Committee, and on that occasion the Minister had had the calculator, or had some of the talented people in the Ministry of Finance figure it out, and had come to the conclusion that each Dane pays 1.500 DKK. annually to the EU. And it sounded a little like the Minister thought it was expensive, that it was a lot of money. That is why I would like to ask whether we will have value for money. Is the EU 1.500 DKK Worth a pen. Dane?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129132555	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129132559	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129132601	Unfortunately, only one question can be asked here. And that was such a quick answer, and it helps at all on time, so now we say thank you to the Minister. This means that we are now embarking on the debate and, therefore, on the normal rules for short remarks. And first of all, it is the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Jens Rohde, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129132642	Europe cannot be brought together because you cannot make an omelet of hard-boiled eggs. That is what Charles de Gaulle said in response to Mr Churchill's call for Europe to be united. Konrad Adenauer therefore worked. When I mention it, it is because it just occurred to me when I heard the Minister making his speech, because it sounds a bit like the hard-boiled eggs of the nations to be gathered here. And, unfortunately, Denmark also makes itself one of the hard-boiled eggs, because all the arguments put forward by the Minister are based on a national premise. And if you base all your arguments on a national premise or on your own individual premise in a community, it is bound to be difficult to reach an agreement on anything. When you make budgets in the European Union, we can discuss whether much of it is irrational, for Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, sir. Søren Søndergaard, the Minister, Conservatives, and so on Radical Left, all those who have worked in the system, I think I think that there might actually sometimes be a need for a lean consultant to come into the administration. So all these things we can really mean something about, and we can all have a position either on agricultural aid or on structural funds etc. But if you have anything in place here, you have to equip yourself with some empathy and understand why what is not rational for us can be perfectly rational for the Greek and for the Polack and for the Hungarian. I remember sitting in the middle of the financial crisis in the ALDE Group, which is a liberal group, and we had some Greeks in the group who thought it was absolutely crucial that the European Community was involved in making rescue packages for Greece. And I really had to use all my mental profit to try to understand why he thought he was as liberal as I was... this Greek, who was now asking for money from the community after a mildly mismanaged administration. It's the drill you have to do. For the European Union is not, of course, about equalising each other's differences; I certainly hope that we can agree on that. The European Union is about us having to overcome and it should not actually be so difficult if we focus on the content. For the Radical Left, it is quite clear that we are getting significantly more out of the funds we pool on research, on the environment, on climate, on integration • the funds we pool on the community • than those we just spend ourselves. That brings added value. If it didn't, we'd have to follow sir. Morten Messerschmidt's example and say: let us resign because we can do much better ourselves. But that's not how the world works for us. I would much rather we take the premise of Konrad Adenauer, another Head of State, the first German Chancellor, who said that the idea of a common Europe is an idea created by the few; it became a hope for many and a necessity for all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129133059	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129133100	What strikes me is the added value. Now, sir. Jens Rohde and I shared their fate, you might almost say, for 10 years in the European Parliament, however bad that may sound to third parties. And I'm assuming that mr. Jens Rohde has also read the audit reports. After all, there will be a steady flow of special reports from the Court of Auditors, diving into structural funds, agricultural funds and whatever else there is. I think the Minister also mentioned that. And it often comes to the conclusion that the efficiency ratio is very, very small in these EU projects. That is why I just want to ask: where is it, sir? Jens Rohde gets the idea that just because redistribution takes place via Brussels, it should have a higher value, a higher efficiency than if it were done nationally?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129133149	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129133149-2	It is quite well documented that we benefit from pooling both in terms of research and climate and in many areas. We are profiting not only from our economy but also from our pooling our sovereignty. I know we have a very different view of that. It always excites my sense of humor when the Danish People's Party looks up as a budgetary hawk in the European Community, but leave it at that. We also know how much it gives us of jobs that we have access to Europe's open markets. And the fact that, in a number of areas, we are making joint efforts with the necessary economy is, of course, what has greatly helped to make progress and which enables us to take up the climate effort together. Having said that, aren't there different projects and different things that should be magnified? Yes. However, the fact is that we also want funds to be allocated in a decentralised manner. And many of those funds, like Mr. Morten Messerschmidt likes to say is a bit spectacular, aren't they the means to deal with in the Member States?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129133305	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129133306	After all, we are not talking about access to the internal market. I therefore agree that it clearly has added value. It probably has much more added value than for example. Danish membership of the EU. No, what we're talking about is the question, as Mr. Jens Rohde points out, namely, that the redistribution takes place from Bruzelles, in itself has an added value. There are, for example: The EGF, as I remember Mr. Jens Rohde voted in favour very consistently at the time in the European Parliament. It has, of course, been proposed directly by the Court of Auditors because it cannot be established that it achieves its objectives. The same applies to the agricultural funds. There was no evidence of effectiveness in the various projects. So where does Mr. Jens Rohde from this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129133348	Sir. Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129133349	Well, I'm not here to tell you that all the funds are good. By the way, I do not like fund socialism, so I am quite willing to belong to the budgetary areas that say that you have to go in and look at things. But I do not want to go along with it at the expense of us, for example. Renationalising agricultural policy. I'd like to do sir. Mr Messerschmidt pointed out that agricultural aid in Europe was not abolished by abolishing EU agricultural aid. You renationalize it. That's the truth. And do we have an interest in that? No, we haven't. That is why we need to reform agricultural aid so that we apply it to climate, environment and better animal welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129133429	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129133430	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Jens Rohde for a post with historical wingsus. It was quite entertaining to listen to. I also think that Mr. Jens Rohde said several things that I fully agree with. Sir. Jens Rohde mentioned that funds spent on research at European level can mean that we get more bang for the buck that we get more out of it when we work together. The same applies to climate, the environment and migration. It is almost unnecessary to substantiate why this is so. It is obvious that there are things that we need to work together on, so these are priorities with which the Social Democrats agree with the Radical Left. It is just surprising that this position concludes that more money must then be spent on Europe. In other words, we could not promote the priorities on which we are in agreement and keep the European budget at 1.00%. of bni by prioritising? We have a certain tradition of doing this in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129133531	Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129133533	Yes, and of course we do. But you also have to relate to that reality and that is why I have come to the point that there are different rationals. What is rational for us in Denmark is not necessarily rational for the others. And now, for example, it is. so that when we talk about climate action and mainstreaming, we get such a horizontal climate action of 25%. of the budget, some countries read: in particular Eastern European countries think it is a very expensive business and a bad idea. If, at the same time, we come and say that we are cutting heavily into the Structural Funds, which are very much what they live on, and which, moreover, is what makes them think that it is right to open up the markets, their markets, to us, then we shall suddenly have a struggle between climate and a dogmatic attitude to the budget, and that is why it is important not to be too dogmatic in its negotiations. We must seek to promote our views, but we must also respect the fact that others have their views. That is why we think we should have a flexible approach to the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129133638	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129133640	I'm not in any doubt, sir. Jens Rohde is right that the negotiations would be easier if you just added more money. This is the case with many negotiations; it is always easier to share than it is to make the tough priorities. I'm just not sure it's worth it. In fact, I believe that the most sensible thing in the long term, including for European cooperation, is that we dare to make those priorities and dare to take those debates across the countries of the European Community, knowing that it will not be easy. However, I believe that this is the direction which in the long term gives the strongest popular support for the European project.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129133713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129133713-2	Now, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen believes what he wants, but I've just been very close to the budget processes and I also saw what it was for a price we paid for our dogmatic attitude to the discount last time. That was among other things. flexibility from pillar 2 to pillar 1, which reduced our competitiveness in agriculture. It was less regional funds and so on. Of course, we have to go on a budget-based basis, and we are in favour of this as well, but threatening with a veto on decimals means that we think that is a bad idea. You've never gotten that far.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129133752	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129133754	I don't share sir. Jens Rohde's view that a great deal of money cannot be raised, as a broad, broad majority of the countries of the European Union will agree, within the current budget. I think most people don't care if Bornholm gets a ski slope. I believe that all countries, for they have expressed this, except one country, think that it is a good idea to stop the travel circus between Strasbourg and Brussels. That is something that costs 1 billion. kr., so I think there's plenty of money to pick up and I'll have to bring you more about it in my speech within the budget if you want. But let's just start with Mr. Jens Rohde's point of view. There is a need for billions to lubricate the system and get an agreement that is good. The only question is: who is going to pay the billions? Well, now we have just been in financial law negotiations with the government, where, after a hard, hard fight, about 3.5 billion were fought. kr. for improvements in public welfare, for children, etc. That is, after all, less than what needs to be given to the European Union next year, so where will the money come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129133901	Sir. Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129133902	But it's the fun bookkeeper again, and it's so tender that I'm almost touched to tears when Enhedslisten suddenly also chooses to sound like a bunch of calculator liberalists. That's very touching. The fact is that we are not arguing that priority should not be given. We are also in favour of the 1-percent objective, but we think it is foolish to threaten with a veto if it is the case that 1.03. After all, the Commission's proposals are based on the Council statement of the Member States of Rome 2017, and then you assess what the tasks are and what they cost, and if you want 10,000 border guards, they cost some money. And yes, of course a Polack doesn't care if there is a ski slope on Bornholm it's such a fun example that's always mentioned, but it's a question of whether the Polack doesn't care if they get regional and structural funds to promote their employment. I don't think so. And to this with Strasbourg: it just requires that we make a treaty amendment before we can change those silly journeys, and nobody wants to be involved in that, after all, nobody wants to open the Treaty.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129134007	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129134008	Now I am not talking about the issue of the veto or anything else; now I am talking about the question of political positions, and we heard earlier that when we received a discount in the European Union, it was used for tax cuts to the richest in Denmark. Now, if it is the proposal that is on the table and is currently being negotiated, Denmark will have to pay more than 5 billion. kr. more to the EU. Could we at least agree that when we get a reduction, it is the rich who get, but if we have to pay more then it is also the richest who have to pay? Can we not get an agreement here that it should not hit ordinary wage earners' incomes?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129134044	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129134045	I cannot stand here and negotiate a financial agreement on behalf of the Radical Left. Mr. Søren Søndergaard all about it. I can't. However, I agree with the starting point. That is why I think it would be very good if, instead of constantly discussing rebates and quotas, we opened up more own resources for the European Community in a number of areas, and we could then make an excellent progression. I would think that was both solidarity and fine and, by the way, more transparent than the system we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129134118	Thanks to Jens Rohde. There are no further brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. I just want to say two things. One is that we have spent some 40 minutes, and so we still have nine rapporteurs and a minister, and I would like to make every effort to ensure that we all get on with it. So when I stand up, it is because the speaking time has been exceeded. It's just to say that I might be a little more tough today than I normally would be. Then I have to say to the rapporteur that there is no confusion: there is 4 minutes of speaking time, but we do not have a 4-minute countdown button up here, so now there is only 1 minute on and then 3 minutes on. I'll give you your time. Here you go, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129134149	Thank you. I can reassure the President-in-Office that my speech will not take longer than four minutes. Social democracy wants strong EU cooperation that serves the peoples of Europe and unites the European nation states. In this way, of course, we also believe that the European Union must, in the future, form the natural basis for European cooperation, which is why I think it is important to stress that today's debate is not about for or against the European Union. It is, on the other hand, a debate on how to ensure that the EU's next multiannual budget will be the budget that will, of course, be the backbone of European cooperation, that it will be green and that it will be financially responsible. We in Europe face many major challenges in the coming years. And that is precisely why it is crucial that we, Denmark, help to ensure that the European tax crowns, and thus the Danish tax crowns, are used wisely. As a result, I am pleased that the government is working to ensure that the common tasks of the European Union are carried out within a spending framework of 1.00%. of bni. Social democracy will not accept that the EU's multiannual budget is running out of control. It is not a viable way for Europe to cut national and Danish welfare efforts, for example, to send more money to Brussels. We can and should do better than that. I would also like to reiterate here what the temporary finance minister said, namely that even with an expenditure level of 1.00%. Of course, we will increase the Danish contribution to the European Community in the coming years. We are going to increase the contribution in the period by around 20%, which means that we are increasing the contribution by 3.4 billion. kr., quite a lot of money. But the debate on the budget is not just about total expenditure. After all, the debate is also about how we dare and should give priority to the budget. Social democracy believes that we should spend the money where the common challenges are greatest. We are fighting for a budget that takes care of climate change and the flow of migration, and we are fighting for a budget that ensures that we have ambitious research efforts. At the same time, of course, we support the rule of law mechanism to ensure that EU funds do not go unhindered to Member States that do not comply with our fundamental democratic values. On the other hand, we want a budget where we spend less on administration. We want a budget where we spend less on traditional expenditure such as direct agricultural support, structural funds and other areas where, as the acting Finance Minister said, the EU added value is to be overlooked. For us, it is quite clear that tackling climate challenges is in many ways the answer to many of the issues that the European Union is facing in the coming years. And that's why we're gonna work for a minimum of 25%. of the EU budget as a whole for a green mainstream, i.e. that we spend 25%. of the EU budget on green measures. This is equivalent to 1 800 billion. kr. over the period, if we keep an expenditure level of 1.00%. of bni. And it is money that, if used properly, can make a marked, marked green difference. Finally, I would like to say clearly that we want to work to prevent Denmark becoming more expensive in Europe. The Danes are already the EU citizens who make the most net contribution today. It is therefore also reasonable that, in a situation where it does not seem realistic to cut the rebate structure, Denmark should, of course, work to maintain the rebate we have. In conclusion, the Social Democrats do not want to cut welfare in order to send more money to Brussels. Instead, green priorities must ensure that we spend the money wisely, that we spend the money to ensure that the European Union takes the lead in the green transition, in the climate action that is absolutely crucial to many of the challenges facing the European Union in the coming years. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129134600	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129134603	After all, it was nice that there was some climate and some research and some strengthening when it came to dealing with migration challenges... a little more than the minister got in his speech. So let me try to see if I can get sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen agrees to send a message to the Danish Parliament that in its priorities in terms of mandateing or obtaining in the European Committee, the climate, migration and research will be weighted at the same level in the negotiating table on Friday, which will be weighted by discount and budgetary rigour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129134651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129134652	As I think I was also told in my speech earlier when I had the opportunity to put questions to Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde, it is quite obvious that we are getting more out of the money in a number of areas by joining forces. Climate is one of the areas, environment and migration are others. But that is also why, naturally, when I say where the social democracy and the government's priorities lie in these negotiations, I place particular emphasis on those particular areas. And so it is also the case that it will be reflected in the mandate that we are asking for climate and migration to be essential and important areas when Denmark sits down at the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129134730	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129134731	But it is just as important as discount and decimal compared to 1.00 per cent.? That is what we want answers to if we are to give a mandate to the government. It is that climate, research and migration are given equal weight. Because I remember the last seven-year debate when you went in and were very dogmatic among a number of countries on it at 1.00%. What happened there? Research lost a great deal of research, and we do not want that to happen again, either for the climate or for the migration challenge or for the strengthening of research in Europe. Because we believe that there is added value to be gained.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129134806	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129134807	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Jens Rohde remembers the last period and the last negotiations. Because these were the negotiations that were started on the basis of the radicals also supporting a budgetary-restrictive line, and I hope that is still a position where we can find the Radicals. I think this is important for the Danish mandate. After all, the mandate must now be finally negotiated on Friday. There should be no doubt that the social democratic position is such that climate and migration are important, and this must also be reflected in the mandate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129134836	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129134837	I fully agree with the Socialist rapporteur that this discussion is not about for or against the European Union. It is about how we prioritise the money in the EU and it is about how we prioritise the money in Denmark. That is why, as I have asked the other rapporteurs, I have to ask the question: now that social democracy accepts an increase of 3.4 billion. kr. sent down to the EU, where some of it will quite rightly be used for something sensible and very much of it will be used for something that is not very sensible, who will then pay the bill? Last time it was the rich who got tax relief. Is it then the poor who have to stand up again when the price of EU membership rises, or will the Social Democrats here give a guarantee that the bill will be placed with those who benefited from the reduction last, namely the richest? And then I have another question when we talk about content: does the Social Democrats think that an increase of between 1,000 and 3 000 per cent? To an EU military which Denmark is not part of is a sensible priority?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129134948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129134949	The Socialist position is, of course, that we want to maintain the Danish contribution of 1.00%. of bni. This means, of course, that when we get richer, when the social cake gets bigger, we send a larger part to the European Union, but only a larger part, which corresponds to how much richer we have been overall. That's why Mr. Søren Søndergaard reckons that the line we have in relation to the relationship between tax relief and welfare is the line that was reflected in the financial law negotiations that I took part in and in which we ended up concluding an agreement with the Enhedslisten, which reflects our agreement here, namely that after a blue government that has spent too little money on and has underfunded welfare and, instead of spending money on tax cuts, we need to strengthen our welfare, that we strengthen the efforts of our welfare state out there in the institutions, where it makes a difference, and that we give priority to tax relief. That is also the social democratic position on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129135054	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129135055	But that does not change the fact that an amount equivalent to 3.4 billion has to be found. kr., which is about exactly the amount we were allocated in the Finance Act together to improve welfare. So next year it will again be found to give to the European Union, and how do you do that? That is a relevant question. I do not think the answer is quite clear. Then there's the thing about military spending. There is a proposal for an increase of between 1,000 and 3 000 per cent. to build a military industrial complex in the EU and we are not a member of the defence dimension. Is that a reasonable priority?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129135130	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129135131	It is the case that when our contribution to the European Community, the European Union, increases, it happens as our economy grows and therefore, within the scope available, we can give priority to delivering to the European Community so that we can give priority to joint efforts on migration, climate and the environment, while at the same time affording us the opportunity to strengthen our welfare state in the future, as we did in the financial law that we have just passed. But there is no money for tax relief. That is not how I see the economic situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129135204	Thank you. I'd like to provide you with a service information. It is the case that if the remaining rapporteurs spend their 4 minutes, then in the rest of the debate there will be time allocated to six overall short remarks. I'm just saying, because we've chosen this form with the two hours. And I'll try to control it. I'm just mentioning it as a service information. The next one is sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129135229	Thank you. I have to say that I am a little curious about some of what Mr. Jens Rohde also asked about. And this is what happens when you sit and negotiate, when you go to a debate, and I have, of course, negotiated with the rapporteur, among other things. on the Finance Act... you have some priorities. There is something at the top of the paper, and there is something at the bottom of the paper. And in the same way it is when you sit and get a mandate from the Parliamentary Committee on Europe; then there is something at the top and something at the bottom. We have such a hierarchy in how to write it up. And I would like to ask a question there, because with the words I hear from the rapporteur, and with the words I hear from the Minister for Finance, I understand that, for example, climate action is high on the agenda. Does this mean that the negotiations want to place the same emphasis on the size of the budget as they do on climate action, so that it is reflected in the budget?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129135320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129135321	It is true that we have negotiated, and I think that by common help I also got some very fine results home. I would also like to take this opportunity to sign for it. It is, as I have said, that the Socialist position in relation to the mandate is that we think it is essential that we maintain a budgetary-restrictive line, that we maintain the Danish contribution to the total European economy of 1.00%. of bni. Then we see that it is not realistic for the current rebate structure to be abandoned. That is why it is natural to fight for the Danish rebate to be maintained, otherwise we will find ourselves in a situation where we contribute to paying other rich countries' rebates. This is not, of course, fair, even with the contribution in mind that Danish taxpayers are already making to the European Union. In addition, we have a number of priorities that I have mentioned, for example. The climate struggle and the green environment, and I really do not believe that this is also in line with what the Minister said, that our positions in the green area are being weakened by the fact that we have a budgetary-restrictive line.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129135428	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129135429	No, if I cannot sit in the negotiating room with the other countries and negotiate on this myself, I have to be sure that those who do so on behalf of me, if I am involved in giving a mandate, do so on the basis of my priorities, which I am putting into a mandate. That is what you do when you say that it is crucial for us in relation to the size of the budget, and then you want to work for something else. There I cannot be sure that we will do so with the same force and strength in that debate and not give up on one to get the other. So again I just have to ask: is one willing to put it at the same level?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129135506	Then we'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129135507	If the alternative burns as much for the green transition at European level as it does at national level, I think we are going to put forward a mandate that corresponds to the ambitions of the alternative, a mandate in which we say very clearly that we need to spend less money on structural funds, less money on direct agricultural support and more on the green. I think this is a mandate which, together with the budgetary line, should be able to gather broad support in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129135534	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129135536	I would like to come to the attention of the rapporteur and his party. I think there is something refreshing and pleasant about the new line we hear from the Danish Prime Minister. I have never heard a prime minister use the term crazy before about the European Union, and it is hard to be sorry when, like me, you think the European Union is crazy. What I just don't understand is that you're not willing to translate the cockpit into action. One could actually make this whole discussion superfluous or not make it unnecessary, because it is good that we are in the Chamber to talk about the EU but one could at least make one's position more clear by just saying that if Denmark has to pay as much as DKK 1. More to the European Union, we are vetoing it. If that is what is needed in order for the government to be able to pull itself out of it, by the way, it must be a rather unpleasant embrace from the Radical Left, then I can just say on behalf of my party, and we have shown roughly the same number of mandates that we would very much like to help, so that you can get a little turnover from what is going on to the trader, you might say.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129135640	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129135640-2	After all, I am not a member of the government, but I think I can say that the government is doing quite well where we are and is pleased with the current situation. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt referred to the Prime Minister's comments when the European Parliament and the Commission's draft budget came forward. There we have a Prime Minister who says things as she sees them, and I just have to say that I agree with the Prime Minister that there is something quite wrong when you see a proposal from the Commission which would mean a 60-percent increase in the Danish contribution. over the period and an increase which would mean that, in the area of the environment, climate and welfare, we would have to make fundamental changes to the way we prioritise here at home, fundamental changes. It would take huge parts of the room for manoeuvre available. I therefore think that the Prime Minister was very, very clear and understandable, so that everyone could see it, said from the perspective of that budget, and that reflects the mandate as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129135747	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt. No, I did not ask for another brief remark. We are saving time, President). I'm sorry, but it was nice. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129135753	I would just like to warn against putting up a contradiction between welfare and the European Union. A person who is employed by the EU and guards the external borders as part of Frontex is no less well-being than a police officer who stands at the Danish-German border and does the same. In other words, an employee of Europol is no less well-being than an employee of the Danish police. It's welfare, all of it. So it was just a warning. Then I have a question, because I do not think we quite got an answer to that, sir. Jens Rohde asked: does the social democracy set the climate and guarding the external borders as high as the question of a discount?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129135834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129135835	I would like to recognise that there are EU expenditures that have such proximity to the national that they should count with when talking about welfare, in the same way as if the funds had been spent nationally. There are plenty of examples of that, so I thought that precision was appropriate. That does not alter the fact that if we had not, as a prime minister or as a country, abstained when the European Parliament proposed 60% increases. in the Danish expenditure, if it had not been said, when the Commission proposed increases of more than 30%.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129135931	There's one more question from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129135935	Yes, but I didn't get an answer to the question, and Mr. Jens Rohde doesn't, and we're gonna have to take that another day. So let's just move on in the text.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129135942	I don't suppose that requires an answer. That is why we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129135957	Mette Frederiksen is the most EU-sceptic prime minister in history, and I have not made this up. It's something that was in everything today. You have followed an EU conference that the think tank Europe has created. Well, the most EU-sceptic prime minister in history. I guess it should be moderated. I guess it should have been the story of Denmark, because I'm in on that, for example. Boris Johnson might be a tooth worse. It builds, among other things. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: When she looked at the conference yesterday, she gets the chance to moderate her statements, what does she do? She stands in the hole and digs it deeper, for she says something like: Well, yes, some think that it was something I came to say; it wasn't, because I mean it. And then she provides proof of truth for her claim by saying that there is money in the EU system that is being used unreasonablely. Yes, there is. There is also money in here that is being used unreasonablely, and there is money set aside in the Finance Act that is being used unreasonablely. So that does not make us describe a financial bill as completely crazy. It was unworthy, and it was unwise. At the conference we were also presented with a survey carried out by Voxmeter among a representative sample of Danish voters. You have been asked a question about what will be the most important thing to ensure in the negotiations on the next EU budget, and then there will be two options where the first one reads as follows: that Denmark does not pay any more. And the second option is that Danish issues, including climate and the protection of the EU's external borders, are taken into account. And what does the Danes say? 17% believes that the most important thing is to ensure that Denmark does not pay any more, while a total of 68 per cent. considers that climate and the protection of the EU's external borders are the most important. Look, I'm a Leftman, and it's no surprise that we Left People like to get a discount, but we're also looking at what we get for what we pay. And that is what is important. Climate action is important. It is important to protect the external borders. And when the Social Democrats talk about Marshall aid to Africa, etc., one might think that it sounds a little hollow when the most important thing in fact is that we should have a discount. And it becomes absurd if you only look at the discount and don't look at the total price. The Minister also mentioned this in his speech, and thank you for that. I mean, if the bill goes up by 11 billion. kr. And we get a discount of 1 billion. kr., it doesn't matter. The overall price is important for the Left and we do not believe there is a contradiction. We believe that we can make the increased efforts in the area of climate and migration without increasing the Danish contribution. I was also very pleased that the Minister said that when you spend more money in some areas, you have to spend less money in other areas. It is a fantastic quote which I intend to use many times when discussing the Danish economy, because it would be fantastic if the same recognition could come into the Social Democracy in other areas. We are very, very much in agreement with that on the part of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129140314	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129140317	Thanks to the rapporteur of the Left, who, it has to be said, clearly distances himself and it is good to know; the Left knows where you have, doesn't it? The question I would then like to ask is whether Mr. Søren Gade can also be considered as part of the Left. For I found, at least on 17 October last year, that he agreed completely with the Prime Minister on Twitter. And, as you know, this was in connection with the remarks made by the Prime Minister, as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen cannot fully reconcile himself. So the question is whether we are in such a Bergsk situation as 140 years ago, so the Left has begun to sail in two different directions, namely where Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen is clearly located, which is a direction towards a completely distant and unknown planet, and then the direction in which you still have both legs on the ground, and that may be Mr. Jørgensen. Søren Gade down in Brussels. Or is there some kind of line between the two Leftmen that the rest of us just can't quite see?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129140417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129140417-2	I can confirm that Søren Gade is a good and a lovely part of the Left, and I am incredibly happy to be on his side. And I cannot imagine that he has written on Twitter that he agrees that the budget is completely crazy. After all, the Prime Minister has said many things, and there may be some of the things she has said that he agrees with. There is probably some of what the Prime Minister says, which I sometimes agree with. But that he should agree that the budget is completely crazy, I must reject it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129140444	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129140445	No, he may be expressing himself a little more urbanly, and fortunately I have access to these social media and can therefore, with the permission of the President, quote from where Mr. Søren Gade says, and I quote, 'I agree with Mette Frederiksen that the EU budget should not increase'. Quote out. Well, it sounds a little different when you hear Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen. In other words, the government attaches great importance to ensuring that the EU budget does not increase. They are so little overwhelmed, compared to what you want to do about it; you don't want to use the right of veto, because you wouldn't want to get into trouble with people down there, would you? You don't want to go that far anyway. But when you hear Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, it is not important how many billions we send off to Brussels, but it is for Mr Jørgensen. Søren Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129140520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129140521	Well, then, sir. Morten Messerschmidt completely lost the ability to use his ears. For what I said from Parliament's platform, and that, sir. Søren Gade has apparently written on Twitter, but words to the contrary are the same: agree that the EU budget should not increase. That's just not it, sir. Morten Messerschmidt began by claiming that Mr. Søren Gade had said. That's where Mr. Morten Messerschmidt in claiming that Mr. Søren Gade had branded the Commission's proposal completely crazy, and of course he has not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129140547	I would point out that I still have five brief comments to make. But first it's sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129140552	Thank you. I am the financial rapporteur and therefore I know a little bit about how the opposition has referred to our draft budget. I can tell you that quite tough accusations and accusations could also be made in this regard through the air. I think it's a little strange to hear sir. Jan E. Jørgensen here today, because it's as if the Left has sunk down to such a tonal discussion. How should you talk about things, and how exactly should you put your words? I think that we had a Prime Minister who said quite clearly when we saw a proposal for an EU budget from the Commission and Parliament, which, despite Britain's resignation and 28 Member States becoming 27, lets administrative expenditure rise and move on as if nothing has happened. This is due diligence on the part of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129140643	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129140644	Well, it's an exciting development that we can see at the institution we call the Prime Minister. Next thing you know, you must have eaten nails, you mustn't be crazy, what do you think I am? And have you gone crazy? Well, I don't think that's how a prime minister should talk. I do not think that a prime minister should characterise a proposal from the Commission as completely crazy. It may be possible to find some VDs who have said something similar about a proposal from the Social Democratic Party; I will not reject that, because it may be that I myself said something similar when I was a VDs. But there is a difference between being VUs or DSUs and being Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129140720	Sir. Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129140721	I think that the Prime Minister made a very clear statement against a proposal which was completely outside what can be accepted by Denmark, and I am also pleased that when we put the tone discussion aside, it sounds as if we still have the Left on a budgetary-restrictive line and that we can agree on it, so that the Minister travels to Brussels and these important negotiations with a strong mandate in the back.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129140742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129140743	Well, the Left is on a budget-restrictive line. It is we who invented it, and we will of course stay there. But if you do not understand the importance of how we talk about the European Union, then you have learned nothing, for example, from brexit, nothing. I mean, if you as British politicians go 40 years in a row from getting up in the morning until you go to bed in the evening and go down to the EU and then ask people if they still think they should be a member of this association and then get a no, then you shouldn't be surprised. So words mean something, and there are actually people who listen to what the Prime Minister says.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129140813	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129140814	After all, it would be nice if representatives of government parties would get a little bit involved in the administrative costs that are increasing. After all, they are rising because of rising pensions and because of inflation, and otherwise they are like this. But, unfortunately, we are now faced with a somewhat argument-resistant government. Whether it's because it's unhelpful or just because it won't listen, I don't know. However, I have rarely experienced a government which has such difficulty finding mandates for its debates in the Committee on European Affairs. That's why I'm gonna ask Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, if not sir. Jan E. Jørgensen wants to help the government. If we are toying with the idea that we are going along with the budgetary line that the Left would also like to take on board, and that we also recognise the rebate as a decisive factor, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Jan E. Jørgensen then help ensure that climate, migration and research also gets the crucial weight, so we are completely adjusted • How do you say that in Danish?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129140919	Now we get an answer. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129140920	I know it well: what is it called in Danish? In other words, the Left believes that climate and the protection of the EU's external borders are extremely important, and the more we can stress the importance of the action the better. It is not the case that we have been put on the ground to help a social-democratic government. Of course we are not, but we would very much like to be involved in securing an EU budget in which Danish priorities such as the EU and the safeguarding of external borders are strengthened.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129140953	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129140954	Yeah, it sounds kind of Gitte Stallone-like: I don't remember it in Danish. But in any case, what is important to us is that we ensure that we have a little leash in the government. The Danish discount is also expensively paid. Well, we have the least discount for all those who have a discount, so it's kind of funny that you don't fight for a bigger discount to Denmark when you want to. However, we must ensure that there is complete equality between content and decimal places.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129141028	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129141029	It is important that we do not charge more money than the 1.00%. The Left is strong on that. And it is important what the money is spent on; we fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129141039	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129141041	I will try to see whether I can come a little closer to getting an answer from the Left, because we have, until a short time ago, had a Left-wing government where we sat with a number of mandates on the sub-elements of the multiannual budget and where each time it was the size of the budget that was crucial in terms of the important content. And that is why I think it is important here in the crucial negotiations that are now taking place on the overall budget, whether the Left is willing to say that, when we place a decisive emphasis on the size of the budget, we will put just as decisive emphasis on climate action in relation to the budget, i.e. research into the budget, so I just want a yes or a no.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129141122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129141123	The precise wording of this kind must be the right thing to do if we wait to give it to the European Committee on Budgets on Friday. That's gotta be the right thing to do. Because today we have a more open debate on where we stand and where our priorities are, but the very clear mandate for it must be on Friday that we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129141142	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129141144	Yeah, okay. It is extremely important but does not have crucial weight. In other words, we all know the language we use in relation to these mandates. That is what we are discussing here today, so I really think it is a pity that the Left has not made up for itself, whether you really believe that the content is as important as the size of the budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129141201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129141201-2	Now I was about to say something inappropriate about the size, but I should stick to the fact that the Left believes that both size and content are important.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129141212	That was wise! Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129141214	Thank you. Now the Left will also spend billions extra on the EU from Denmark in the future. And now I'm not gonna ask where the money's coming from, because I know that. In other words, the money will come from where the Left always takes the money, that is, from the general population, whereas last time the rich were let go and received tax relief when money was returned from the EU through the tax rebate, so I do not need to ask that question. On the other hand, I would like to ask how much more money the Left is actually prepared to pay to the European Union every year. Because we have demanded very concrete answers from the government, and therefore it might also be interesting to hear: Does the Left have a pain limit, or is it really that way because we know the government's mandate; it has been presented, and it can be read that the Left is going to fully agree with the mandate that it stands and is presented?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129141309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129141310	I just think, sir. Søren Søndergaard has just as much problems with his hearing as Mr. Søndergaard. Morten Messerschmidt. So, when did I or anyone else from the Left say that we are willing to increase the budget for the European Union? We have said the opposite. When it is 1.00 per cent, bni grows, it is clear that it will be more money in crowns and ears, like Mr. Søren Søndergaard also pays more in tax if he gets a pay increase, but that doesn't mean that the tax rate has increased. Well, the Left doesn't think so, and Mr. Søren Søndergaard also, or at least he should know that, which is why, frankly, I think it is a little too bad that you should get something shot in your shoes that you don't think.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129141346	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129141347	In a number of other areas that logic does not apply. It doesn't apply when we talk about cash benefits. It did not apply when we talked about the demographic features of the municipalities and about the welfare of the municipalities. Nor was it allowed to increase in relation to what was the usual need. So no, it doesn't always apply. But here they say we have to put extra money down 1%, i.e. 3.4 billion. kr. additionally down to the EU. And they have to come from somewhere. They're supposed to be used for something. But the question remains: do you have a border in the Left, or will the Left vote in favour of the mandate from the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129141422	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129141423	It's not that hard. I mean, since, for example, we... committed us to 0.7%. of our aid to developing countries following a UN resolution, it is 0.7 per cent, and if we get richer, more money is going to be spent on poor countries. But it is still 0.7 per cent, and when we have a target of 1.0 per cent, even a calculator socialist cannot be surprised that the amount will then increase when Denmark gets richer. That is quite logical, and that is why I think it is a strange question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129141456	It is the case that there are seven rapporteurs left in the row plus one minister, and we have 45 minutes, and that is why, Mr President. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, I have decided that only rapporteurs are allowed to make brief comments. In doing so, we would like to thank Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen and welcome to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129141518	I want my money back, said Margaret Thatcher when she swung the handbag in Brussels, and she got it. For the thing about swinging the handbag actually sometimes has a beneficial effect. We have also seen this in Danish politics, where strong women have been able to swing the handbag and impose their radical will. That is why it is as if there is little missing in this debate, namely the will to live its policy fully. This whole talk about whether you can say that the EU budget has been or has not been tapped and so on is really about something quite different. It is, in fact, a tribal dance in which one tries to mark oneself as something that one really is not: very, very critical of the EU system. If you were, of course, you were brave enough to say: if the budget is not kept, so that with or without discounts, or what it may be, we pay the maximum to the EU for the next 7 years, then we are not in, then we will veto that we want our money back. If you don't do that, it's all just a big potion. That is a bit where we are, and it is basically a pity, because there are a great many good reasons for being restrictive of the way in which the European Union manages the trusted funds, even though Brexit is now becoming a reality. Søren Søndergaard has mentioned some of the good examples of crazy, cracked projects, and the strap is almost endless. So instead of having this discussion around the capitals of the countries about whether we are going to pay more or less 1 per million, we could start to look at whether some of the crazy projects are going from Strasbourg-Brussels to Bornholm ski slopes and social funds, globalisation funds, etc. etc. Then you would have come quite a long way. But we do not really dare to do so, and that is why we are assuming a rhetorical position in which we say nasty words that can get the opposition leading party out of the chair, and then we do not see the most landmark and interesting thing, namely that we have a government that is not willing to put action behind its words. And that's a shame. In the Danish People's Party we probably cannot surprise anyone in this Chamber, and perhaps not so many outside the EU too, a rather critical approach to large parts of the EU budget. Yes, sir. Jens Rohde, there may be advantages in joining together in research projects, but agricultural policy is a real disaster which has not only led to an unnecessarily indebted Danish agriculture, but also created a cemented socialism around the other countries, which means that we can no longer move at the same pace towards green development, for example. in agriculture. It's a complete disaster. I do not entirely agree that renationalisation would lead to something bad, because then the ordinary rules of competition law would only apply, but it is probably a hypothetical discussion. The same can be said of structural aid. It has led to a series of projects with the construction of airports around southern Europe, which no one is using, and motorways on which no one is running etc. etc. So there are lots of projects that can be called crazy and that could qualify for scraping it. It just takes you to be willing to do more than rhetoric, and the government doesn't seem to be. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129141910	Thank you. Now we are from one extreme to the other extreme in the situation that there are no brief remarks. That's why we move on to Halime Oguz from the SF. Here you go. Perhaps we could get the debates that are taking place down the line of the rapporteur a little further away from the platform, because the sound comes right up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129141931	Thank you, sir. President. We are pleased to have the opportunity to debate the EU's forthcoming 7-year budget here in Parliament at such short notice, partly because the EU's 7-year budget is an important matter, partly because it is important that the government has a clear framework to negotiate within so that Denmark's interests and priorities can be best addressed in the negotiations. In recent weeks we have talked a little too much about discounts and percentages. In the SF, we believe that it is the political content that should be in focus rather than discounts or the question of whether it should now be 1%. or 1,05%. of the budget framework. That is why I also hope that we can have a good debate on political content today. It is important that we focus on modernising the EU budget towards common challenges such as climate, migration efforts, research and Africa, rather than agricultural support, which still consumes too much money from EU budgets. There are many good elements in what the government is proposing to fight for in the negotiations: a new plastic tax; a rule of law mechanism linking EU funding to the rule of law; a goal that the next MFF overall constitutes a significantly better EU climate regulation, economically so that the green transition in the EU can be strengthened; the possibility of being able to move significantly more funds from direct support to rural support if funds are used for environmental and climate action; a stronger focus on improved indicators so that we can measure the real climate impact of the EU funds we use for climate-oriented measures, so that there is no question of a desk exercise, but on actions with actual and real effects. As far as discounts are concerned, the SF would like to see all discounts on the EU framework budget abolished or phased out altogether, as the Commission proposes. But if there are strong demands for discounts from other wealthy countries, and this is easy to imagine, we will be in a situation where we will have to help pay a large part of a discount to wealthy countries, and in this situation it may make sense that we also ask for a discount, but preferably not in a position that the government is setting up. Overall, we agree with the government's priorities, although we would like to see a more ambitious approach to climate and less preoccupation with the crucial emphasis on discount. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129142220	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129142223	Thank you for that, that was today's absolutely best EU speech. Thank you so much for that, and it's not ironic or anything. I'm serious. That's great. But with that there is also a duty, and that is that you really also show that you mean it. So my question to the SF is, of course, whether you are in agreement with the government that we want everything that Mrs Halime Oguz has talked about here, namely the content, likened to the Danish word, now I have learned the Danish word • with the things where we compromise, namely by saying yes to any rebate and a budget-restrictive line of 1%.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129142312	For us, as I said in my speech, what is absolutely essential is simply the political content. The points I read out are, in fact, some points that have been improved since the SF went to the minister and asked for greater emphasis on the issues that concern us. What is at stake here is that when, for example, we get there. We are also helping to negotiate those things, we are also helping to evaluate once a year and to keep the government up with the policy being pursued.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129142349	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129142350	But it would be a matter of course. If Mrs Halime Oguz considers this to be an admission, then she is far too cheap for sale, or at least her party is. What is crucial now is what will happen when the key is thrown away in Brussels and the Heads of State are locked in. That is what forms the whole framework for everything else. That is why it is important for Mrs Halime Oguz to take the consequences of what she is saying from the platform and to help ensure that the government equates all the content she herself talks about with discounts and with budgetary rigour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129142427	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129142428	Thank you. As I also said in my speech, and I am happy to repeat it, what is important for us is the political message and content. And as I also said in relation to the climate effect, the government has now changed the presentation, so there needs to be a stronger focus on improving climate action.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129142457	We thank Mrs Halime Oguz and move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Oguz. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129142506	This discussion is also about the well-being of the Danes for years to come. Because we are not talking about millions, we are not talking about a billion or two, but we are talking about billions and billions of dollars, as the Minister of Finance also explained, and there we have seen that for the government it is not absolutely crucial how large the budget will be, that it is not absolutely crucial what we get for the money, but that it is absolutely crucial for the government that we get a discount. I must honestly admit that I think this is a strange discussion. It's like when you meet a street salesman in Egypt or Morocco who says: Very cheep, half price for you. Well, half price of what? That is what is interesting: what is it half a price of, and what do you get for what you pay? The government does not attach the utmost importance to this, but the question of the rebate is a crucial one. In fact, when we talk about the rebate, our position is that, when you are involved in international cooperation, it is quite reasonable that you pay 1 per cent or 1 per cent. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. What else would you pay? Why do you have to get a discount on it because you're rich? I simply do not understand that at all, so we agree with the principle that the rich countries must pay the most. What is then the question is how high it should sum up overall and what that money should be spent on. We do not believe that there is a basis for paying more to the European Union, and how can we say this so clearly? There is no need for more money, for example. climate action? Isn't there a need for more money for research? Yeah, I'm sure there is, and that was one of them. That is why we were unable to vote in favour of the recent mandate for agriculture. Because there will continue to be huge amounts of money spent on agriculture that will go to black farming, that is to say, what has caused agricultural emissions over the last seven years to increase rather than fall. We certainly need it, and that requires priority, and we can only force that priority by saying that there is a fixed upper limit. There are many places where savings can be made. It could be said that the funds from the cohesion funds, which redistribute billions, went only to the poorest countries, and something could be done about the absurd projects, and some have been mentioned. However, many more could be mentioned, including projects that I do not know who is supporting, i.e. millions for campaigns to improve the image of frozen fries, millions for campaigns for orchids in pots or millions of kroner for the campaign •Glad for pigs, which should make young Danes and Swedes happier to eat pigs. But no more pigs are needed if we want to do something about ecology; fewer pigs are needed. So there is plenty of money in the system and we need to have a discussion on how to use it. For the problem of adding up is not just that it costs and that the poorest are going to pay, but the problem is that a lot of money is being spent incorrectly, being spent on something that is anything but green and anything but good. After all, it is also a question of spending money that should not be spent. After all, we have just received an audit report which sets out the error rates, and it says that the error rates are an estimate of how many of the funds should not have been paid out because they have not been used in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations. So it is money that should simply not have been paid out. That's 5%. 5 per cent of the Structural Funds resources Let's start with them first, and then there's plenty of money.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129142920	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129142929	One of the best things about this disagreement we have had with the government is that we bring the European Union into this Chamber. I think it is very important that we discuss the European Union much more than what we are doing today in Denmark. When I was around in connection with my election campaign, I got to talk to a Dane who lives in Germany when we also had EP elections and he said: 'That's strange; when I open the Danish TV newspaper, there is nothing at all about the EU, only if there is a scandal, but when I open the German every night, there is a new topic where it is discussed how the European Union is. Because the European Union affects us, influences us, and it is therefore also important that we are well informed so that we can also decide where it is that we do not want more Europe, but less Europe, so that it does not become an over-bureaucratised system that comes down on us, and that is why we are discussing these things so fervently here. After all, the government has agreed to this and it certainly seems that we agree on this very budgetaryly restrictive line. We would like to see a reduction of 1.1 per cent. 1,07 per cent After all, the compromise proposal is a good one, and we also trust that if the government gets its mandate here very soon, it will come back to us, in other words going back to its parliamentary majority and turning things around with us if it does not go the way we have set out here. On the other hand, I think it is very worrying about the critical line taken by the government towards the European Union, and we simply have to reverse the negative mood. We need a united European Union today, not a divided one, and we also need to concentrate on it at home. For the European Union is, in fact, the best fire insurance for our being able to live in democracy and peace, and we also have access to a market of 700 million people and to all the trade agreements, and that is what gives rise to growth. Our exports mean 700,000-800,000 jobs, and that is also what brings tax dollars into Denmark and can make the welfare that Enhedslisten and others and we all want so much. It is also our investment in our future, and we owe it to our young people too, and if the Prime Minister wants to be the prime minister of the children, I hope she will also be the young people. This morning I had a call from among others. a school, and they wanted to look at the European Union and the future. They think it is an extremely exciting subject. At the DI's Green Conversion Summit, where the Prime Minister himself was involved, a survey had been carried out among young people about who they thought could solve the climate challenges, i.e. politicians, business, etc., and who they had chosen as the no. One? EU. So the young generation has a different perspective from us, and we must be sensitive to that. We must also ensure that young people have the opportunity to travel, to study, to learn about our culture, language and education, and they do so because we have a European Union, and that is what England is now cutting itself off from. That is why I would like to say to the government that I really hope that rhetoric will change. It is clear that it has nothing to do with this over-bureaucratisation and it cannot be compared to super hospitals. For the 1,500 kroner. per Dane is therefore a cheap investment, compared to what we get again, and it confirmed that fg. After all, just now, when he said to Jan E. Jørgensen: it is value for money; we are paid for our contribution to the European Union. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129143311	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129143314	It is absolutely women who are holding the best European speeches here today. Let's say so. That was an excellent speech. Thank you. I'm so surprised, because I'm from the same town as mr. Søren Pape Poulsen was the town where he was mayor and it is certainly a refreshing EU-positive tone we hear from the Conservative People's Party, even when comparing with other Conservative parties in Europe. I thought it was a real pleasure to hear Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. I also heard her on television yesterday saying that Strasbourg travel should be stopped. I do not think there are any Danes who believe that this should be done. However, this requires a treaty amendment, and it then raises the question whether the Conservative People's Party believes that we should use this Convention or create a Convention where we can actually reform the European Union and make some treaty changes that are very much needed in this European Union cooperation. It could also be a welcome opportunity in certain areas to have less of the European Union if you want it. You just have to reduce the number of Commissioners if you want to have less of the European Union. It could be one of the roads.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129143423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129143424	It was good that you listened yesterday and could also inform me more about the whole issue of Strasbourg travel, because that is something that is being raised over and over again, and I think it is also trouble and trouble for those Members who have to travel back and forth all the time to this. In any case, we will be clearly open to looking at what can be done. It's probably not the first time in history that you've looked at this, but perhaps the Radicals and Mr. Jens Rohde, with the insight you have when you've been sitting down there, can also inform us about what opportunities there are for creating the necessary changes, so that we, for example, can: can stop Strasbourg travel.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129143509	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129143510	Well, there was an opportunity when Conservatives sat in government, where it was more important for the government to get the Medical Agency and the Financial Agency to Denmark • at least the Medicine Agency. There, of course, the French could have been offered it. It was an open window and they knew what they needed these buildings for, but there was the national premise again more important, so there was a chance missed. Otherwise, it is simply necessary to amend the Treaty, and I think that this could be excellent, because I think that the European Union needs to be reformed, and it would therefore be nice if the Conservative People's Party would go along with it. But the most important thing is: will Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll help to make the government demand that content mean just as much as the other points?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129143554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129143555	We will clearly help to make a demand on the content. The main priorities for us in this budget are climate, external borders and research.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129143609	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129143613	I am also trying to understand what the rapporteur is actually saying. I tried earlier with the Left rapporteur, but without much success, so now I hope that the Conservatives can be as clear and clear in the answer as they were in the speech: will the Conservatives place more emphasis on the size of the budget than on the content, or do they think that the weighting of climate, migration, of research should be as high as the size of the budget in the negotiations they enter into?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129143644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129143645	We believe that this is as important in terms of the content of the three priorities as it is in the budget. If we go in and say that we want a budget-restrictive approach, we must also say what we want, and that is why we do it, and then we have been set up for what we do not want so badly. We cannot go in and say that we want ten priorities and then stick to our budgetary restrictive approach. However, I think it is important that we focus on where the funds are going, and that is why we also attach crucial importance to climate, external borders and research.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129143723	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129143724	I am very pleased to hear that, in other words, the budgetary restrictive line that is called it here in Denmark, and the content, and I look forward to seeing that reflected in the Conservatives' weightings in relation to the mandate that the government will seek on Friday in the European Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129143742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129143743	We can only agree, and I would not even say that we are budget-restrictive, but that we are budget-responsible. This is going to cost us something more and, as we also hear, there are several items in the EU budget that need to be revised without me being an expert on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129143804	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129143812	Thank you. After all, it is good to have the opportunity to discuss this seven-year budgetary framework in this Chamber. After all, it is 20 months since we started the debate on this, and unfortunately the debate in Denmark has largely stood still. It has been about 1.0 per cent. That is basically what has been discussed under the previous government, which consisted of a number of parties, and under this government, therefore, 1.0 per cent. Instead of talking about content, instead of talking about how it is, we are creating a budget that can actually solve the challenges we are facing together, rather than really going to look at how it is, we are getting the right tools to tackle the climate crisis, so that we are not just pointing our finger at individual countries and saying that they have to do one thing or the other, that they have to meet a target, then we should actually have discussed both 2030 targets and climate neutrality targets more as common tasks. I would have liked to have seen this discussed much more than just talking about 1.0 per cent. It's so important when we look at this budget, when we look at our cooperation in our community, that we keep remembering that we should also be able to see the community from the others' chairs. It may well be that there is something important to us today that is not important to them in Poland or in Greece and that there are some other things that are important to them that may become important to us tomorrow. We must therefore understand this when we negotiate such a budget, namely that we should not just sit on our own little chair and say that what we think is important is the only thing that matters. We should not sit and keep talking about things that have been done in the past and make fun of Structural Fund funds that make a difference for some countries, making a difference for some regions. I think that we could be better at that when we discuss the multiannual budget and, in general, when we discuss solutions jointly by the European Union. In fact, the alternative has always been very much in line with the European Parliament. We think we have some really big challenges; in fact, we think it is wrong to only sit down and look at what we have to pay, instead of saying: what are we solving together that we do not have to solve alone? Instead of sitting around talking about net contributors and net contributors, where we make a dividing line between them and us, we are much more concerned with looking at how we can make own resources for the European Union so that we can actually create an economy where it is called us and we. We have missed that approach in the Danish debate in relation to this and also in relation to the changing governments' approach to this budget. We think that is a pity. We think that we had the chance now and here to do away with some of the things that constantly create conflict in our community, namely when we stand and say that we pay more than they do and that they get more than we do, so that we do not look at what we solve together. So that has been our approach all the way, and it will continue to be. It is therefore about the community, it is about common tasks, and it is about how we support and help each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129144125	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129144128	I know that for the alternative and for Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist is the issue that the money we give to the European Union is being used to help alleviate climate change, crucially. Now we have just given a mandate in relation to the part relating to agriculture, and I would perhaps like to know if Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist believes that the mandate we gave there helps to ensure that we have a significantly better climate in the European Union when it comes to the contribution to agriculture. However, I would like to ask, in relation to the MFF, whether it might be possible to make as a crucial requirement that the MFF should contribute to achieving the EU's own climate objectives. Couldn't this be something we should all be able to reconcile? For changing governments have, of course, helped to define the climate targets. So could it be said that an absolutely essential condition for Denmark to vote in favour of a budget is that it contributes to that objective, being an idea that the alternative was positive about?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129144230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129144230-2	First of all, with regard to agricultural policy, the big problem has been when we have discussed this issue over the last 20 months. It is a very long time that we have actually spent discussing this without really getting started on the important mandates. It was called a meeting after the meeting, whether we were talking Erasmus, that is to say student exchanges, or research. Then they contribute 1.00 per cent. For what we want? No. But the contents do. And we think it is a pity that the content has not been discussed to a much greater extent also when we talk about agricultural policy because what is actually on the table is much better than what we had before. And, of course, one should be able to place a decisive emphasis on the fact that together we solve the tasks of climate challenges; that we do this together, rather than just pointing fingers at each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129144322	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129144325	Yeah, with this, together, I totally agree. But the question is: can the parties responsible for a green transition come together to say to the government that the prerequisite for accepting a budget is that the budget contributes to achieving the objectives that the EU itself has set itself in relation to the green transition, so that it is simply essential to vote in favour of such a budget?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129144355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129144356	What is very important to me in relation to the mandates we have to give on this overall is that it is not the one percent • 1.00%. We can easily compromise on something that we do not think is wise, which is about going and fighting for that one percent instead of saying that there is a really good compromise of 1.07%. in line We will fight for that to such an extent, otherwise we will not see ourselves in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129144432	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. And we move on to the next rapporteur, who is from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129144444	Thank you for the floor. For New Citizens, it is crucial that Denmark's spending on the EU is as low as possible, so we support the government's emphasis on maintaining our rebate. It is necessary to ensure that the financial burden is distributed fairly among the countries. In New Citizens we find that Denmark's discount is central to a reasonable burden sharing. When Britain leaves the EU, everything else equal will mean that the EU's income will fall. So it must be. EU expenditure must be adapted to the new reality. To increase the expenditure of the remaining countries in order to compensate for this is totally unacceptable. At the same time, if the European Union wants to spend money on new tasks, expenditure must be reduced elsewhere. Otherwise it'll be screwed without end. Overall, New Citizens would prefer Denmark's financial position not to deteriorate as a result of a new EU budget for the years 2021-2027. We would like the government to attach decisive importance to a budget equivalent to 1.00%. of bni. This in itself will mean that Denmark's expenditure will increase. And we would like the increase in expenditure to be kept at least at this level. If it is not possible to get a mandate through with a decisive emphasis on 1.00%, New Citizens will support the government in its efforts to keep spending as low as possible. And we also support greater focus on migration efforts in the budget. If, on Friday, the government presents a negotiating mandate as a result of these lines, New Citizens will support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129144622	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the next in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr Beazley. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129144635	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that the European Union should play a major role in resolving major cross-border problems. This is true, for example. in terms of defence, climate and trade regulation. Conversely, we believe that the European Union should be as little as possible in areas which are less important across borders. And the basic view has the logical consequence that, in a number of areas, the European Union should be smaller than the European Union is doing today. Looking at how the EU spends its budget, we believe that a large part of the funded activities could actually just as well take place nationally or not at all. For example: More than a third of the EU budget is spent on agricultural support and a lot of money is spent on infrastructure projects, job programmes, etc. In addition, the EU spends a substantial part of the budget on what can be described as regional compensation, in other words, an attempt to redistribute itself to growth in the poorest countries of the European Union. In our view, regional equalisation should be minimised to the greatest extent possible. We find it difficult to see the reasoning of the inter-European equalisation. If we are to use Danish tax dollars to help people in countries where they are not as well off as in Denmark, the obvious beneficiary countries are not members of the EU. The poorest countries in the EU are rich countries in a global context. The poorest country in the EU, Bulgaria, has a gross national income that is more than 25%. higher than the world average. So, unfortunately, we are in the somewhat paradoxical situation today, that through the European Union we indirectly provide assistance to a number of relatively rich countries. We therefore basically believe that Denmark should work towards reducing the EU budget and reducing the degree of redistribution. If you have these wishes, it is a basic wise line that the government has set up. The pressure from other Member States is against a higher European budget, so fighting to limit the increase is probably the best possible. At the same time, we must be vigilant about the Danish rebate. Discounts reduce redistribution in the EU system. I understand that some parties do not believe that the Danish rebate should be defended and that instead we should focus on the overall budget. That view is entirely legitimate, although one can of course discuss how realistic it is. However, one should only be fully aware that the consequence of a dispute with the discounts is that several Danish tax dollars are sent to Romania, Bulgaria and Croatia. To say that one should focus on the overall economic outcome for Denmark, while at the same time not being willing to defend the rebate system, is not connected. It is quite unrealistic to imagine reductions in the EU budget in an order of magnitude so that the Danish rebate can be taken in. It should be borne in mind that the primary source of funding in the EU budget is the income-based one, which accounts for approx. 70% of the total financing. We would very much like to see fewer Danish tax dollars being sent to Brussels. If you want to, you have to work hard to secure the Danish discounts.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129144950	Thank you. There are no brief comments. So we are done with the rapporteur's line and move on to the acting Finance Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129145019	Thank you. Can I start by thanking you for a very good debate? I think it has clarified this important issue. It is clear that we are political parties and that there are different views, but I think that a clear line is drawn from a very large majority: paragraph 1: EU cooperation is important for Denmark. Paragraph 2: The challenges facing EU cooperation right now are the crucial issue we are meeting about; the importance of an offensive climate action; the importance of ensuring that the EU is better able to deal with migratory flows. Paragraph 3: We will focus on what role the European Union must also play in the world as the focal point for what one might say is balanced growth, not just riding on the wild market economy, but taking these into account in the organisation of our community and its cooperation. I think that is crucial. And then it is clear that the next seven years of budget planning are also crucial. There I am pleased that we will hopefully be able to come together on Friday for a broad mandate to the government. What the government is going to present will be entirely one by one in line with what previous governments have been working on. I hope that we can also see the subsequent cooperation in the seven-year perspective, as it is, where we are constantly getting closer to the challenges facing the European Union, and how the budget here can then help to influence it in the direction in which we, after all, have a broad consensus that it should be affected. This applies, as we have discussed a little here, also outside the platform and, after all, we have also discussed it in the European Committee on Friday, in open form, to try to see how we can organise the work of the European Committee so that we can go deeper into the spade. And that also applies to those parties which then choose to support the mandate: how can we organise the work so that we can get closer; how does this cooperation move towards the priorities that we have? That is some of what we will be discussing on Friday, and that is one of the things that I hope we can have broad support for. It is crucial for Denmark that we stand together, that we have clear objectives for the work and that we can continuously follow it and, above all, that we also have a strong voice both within the European Union, but also with our close allies on these issues. It is important right now to ensure that we hold on to our close allies. In many ways, Europe has changed and will change on Friday. One of the important things for Denmark is to secure alliances. Without them, we find it difficult in these discussions, which is why it is important that we have clear objectives, clear lines and a clear majority behind what is this government's proposal, but which is one by one in relation to what civil governments have also had to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129145334	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129145338	Thank you. I understand that the Minister is confident, because I certainly believe that the government will have its mandate with the Left. Everything we have heard in the last few days has, of course, been theatrical order and a fuss about nothing, so that mandate will come to pass. It is then a mandate that will mean that, regardless of how you turn it and turn it, there will be 3, 4.5 billion. kr. I am afraid that this is the kind of place that is going to suffer. So can we get a promise from the government that the billions to be found should be found elsewhere than among the most disadvantaged in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129145436	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129145437	Sir. Søren Søndergaard can get a promise from the government that the government will do everything we can to ensure that a socially responsible economic policy is pursued in this country and that Denmark has a firm position in a European cooperation, which, when you look at it, is therefore an unequivocal gain for the Danish economy, which creates thousands of jobs that help to secure jobs in all parts of Denmark, which generate large income for Denmark and which helps to finance our welfare society. There would be far greater problems for our welfare societies if we were outside of this cooperation and did not reap the benefits that are at it. It is also part of reality. So that's what I can guarantee, sir. Søren Søndergaard, that is to say, it is government policy which goes quite well along with what I have heard earlier prime ministers say in this Chamber that one of them is present here today, and I am delighted about that, because it will seem very clear that this is something that we have to come together on a cross-party basis. This is important for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129145541	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129145541-2	Now we are not engaged in a debate about whether you are for or against the European Union. We are debating the size of the budget and there is now a clear picture that a compromise will be reached that we must have a budget which means that 5-6 billion will have to be paid each year. kr. kr., what do I know more about the EU, and then it is just I ask: can we get a promise that that money will not be paid by the weakest? After all, we heard how the Minister explained how the rebate received from the European Union was given to the richest in society. Then we couldn't get a guarantee like that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129145618	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129145619	We are going to pay more to the EU because the EU's overall economy is growing, and so is the Danish economy. Within this framework, it is our job to ensure that we can prioritise welfare, that we can prioritise an active business policy, that we can give priority to an active education policy, which is, of course, very much the engine that helps to ensure that Denmark is linked. I can guarantee that. And I do not think this is in contrast to the fact that there will be a continued great Danish commitment to the EU • on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129145653	Thank you, and then there is a brief comment to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129145654	The Minister says that we are going to pay more to the EU because the overall economy is growing. But that's not true. We are going to pay more to the European Union because the government does not want to do what is necessary to prevent us from paying more to the European Union. That is what is at the heart of the whole issue. If we just had a government that would do what it, in its rhetoric, would like to signal to the people, one could actually ensure that Denmark did not pay any more. But that is not what you want, and I just think that the acting Finance Minister owes it to the gullible people out there to say openly and honestly that the reason why Denmark is going to pay more to the European Union is that you are not brave enough, willing enough, to use the veto tool, even if you have it for once.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129145741	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129145742	I hope that Friday's debate in the Parliamentary Committee on Europe and the mandate that is on the agenda there will of course reflect the fact that there will continue to be broad agreement on what in the ministry for which I am now a substitute is called a budgetary-restrictive approach to this issue. I think this is important, and that is why I hope there will be broad support for it. It is important, not just for Denmark, because the reality is that it is also important for EU cooperation that we should constantly compare to the 7 500 billion. kr., which we are talking about here, see if there is no possibility of spending the money a little differently. Should we continue to use them as we do on EU support? Should we continue to use them as we do on the Structural Funds? Or could they be targeted at climate, migratory flows and research efforts? It's the fight that's already going on now, and that's why it's important that Denmark get into this fight as soon as possible and with as broad support as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129145835	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde to just round off, because now we are approaching the time for the end of the question debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129145852	As the rapporteur for the questioners, as it is called, I should like to thank you for the debate, and thank you for the fact that the European Committee of the Regions, together, initiated the matter in the Chamber. This is, of course, very important, and I think we can do this in the future in a large number of areas that we are dealing with. It would be nice if it were not an urgent question, which gets a little stressful because you might not be able to put all the questions you want to ask to something that is extremely complicated. But it was to meet the government that the committee agreed to an urgent request, precisely because the government would like a mandate on Friday. This leads me to say that we can probably sit with all our differences and all our different priorities, but politics is not about being right. Politics is about being right, as a former chairman of the Folketing once said to me, Mr. Christian Mejdahl. And I think that should be put behind these discussions, because that is also true in relation to Denmark's role in European cooperation, where we cannot just stand firm on all our priorities. We must also recognise that there are others who have some other priorities, and there you have to cut a heel and cut a toe when you have to meet. That's one thing. The second thing is that I hope that the government understands and now I am speaking to the Minister, who is very happy to hear that politics is not just about being right, but also about being right, and that the government, if it wants a mandate from the Folketing, and even a broad mandate, which I could understand the Minister put great emphasis on was crucial, must of course also listen to the parties and come to meet them and their priorities when these parties choose to meet the government. That is why I have the expectation that we will be able to reach a broad mandate on Friday. The government is aware of the prerequisites for this, and I hope that the government will then also be willing to meet the parties. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129150059	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. As I said, the vote on the proposals for adoption will not take place until Thursday 30 January 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129150110	I think we need to get ready. The first question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and that has been asked by Mr Gundelach. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129150151	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129150155	Thank you for that, President. Will the Foreign Minister, since Brexit will become a reality in a few days' time, indicate what opportunities he will see for Denmark in the coming years to be able to take back competence from the EU, for example in the field of foreigners or welfare, and what he will actively do to use the process initiated by the British to challenge the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129150215	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129150231	Thank you to the questioner. Brexit has already created a lot of challenges and has had great costs for both the EU and for Britain, and plenty of time and energy has been spent on anything other than what in practice matters to the citizen. So if the question is whether the government thinks that we should now spend even more time on understanding discussions about institutions, competences and processes, then the short answer is no. As the questioner knows, the question of competence concerns the Treaty, and therefore the question is really whether the government thinks that Denmark should work for treaty changes, and here too the answer is clearly no. After all, experience has shown that Treaty issues lead to endless discussions which draw all attention away from what really matters, namely the political results. I do not believe that the citizens want us to spend our time on endless discussions about institutions and competences. I believe that what citizens expect is that we focus on and deliver concrete political results on the climate agenda, on the migration challenge, on tax evasion, on social dumping, and I believe that citizens are asking for concrete answers to our common challenges. It was my conclusion from the citizens' hearings that we had last year, and that was the lesson from the elections to the European Parliament, where the electorate turned their backs on the parties and lists that are stoned in an old discussion for or against the European Union. It is about what EU cooperation we want. If we can learn something from brexit, it is the value of EU cooperation and the internal market, not least, and that we can trade across borders without any hassle and at no great extra cost, which is now in danger of hitting British companies. However, I would like to emphasise that I am not saying that the European Union is perfect in every way, because it is not, and the questioner knows that I do not think it is, and of course there are challenges, and we must discuss them, and we must find solutions to them. We must stick to the edge of the table and work to make European cooperation better, but that is what we do best by being involved and by engaging. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129150431	Thank you. Before giving the author the floor, I would like to ask those who are not part of Question Time to continue the talks in the rooms a little further out. Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129150444	Thank you. And thank you to the Secretary of State. That was a subtle way of replying, because you start by saying that you do not want to open treaties, that you do not want to start looking at understood processes and move around with powers, etc. However, at the end of his speech, the Foreign Minister says that we must also ensure that the European Union improves. Yes, but what if the better Europe that the citizens want is a smaller Europe? I really do not think that there are any British or other Danes, or whatever it may be that we do not think that we should jointly try to solve climate challenges, tax challenges and border problems, etc., mentioned by the Foreign Minister. However, in the short time that the current government has been sitting, I can see up to several areas where the EU Treaty is one, we must say challenge to the government. I think it was the Minister for Agriculture who got a little caught up with some maternity rules that he thought could be withdrawn because Denmark has such a fine system of its own, but that cannot be done because the Treaty we have today has given the EU the power to determine our labour market policy as well. I can also remember until multiple cases where the Minister for Integration has had difficulties in determining Danish immigration policy, because this has also been handed over to the European Union. I even remember that sir. Jeppe Kofod as a Member of the European Parliament spoke quite strongly against the EU interfering in our children's money, su rules, etc. etc. There is just the big question that remains, and that is: how can we solve it if we cannot change the Treaty? In other words, if we are not to take advantage of the opportunity that the British have given us by giving the whole body of civil servants and unelected decision-makers in Brussels the door in their heads, to discuss where it is that we can then, as a country, take back powers from the European Union, then I think we are missing a huge opportunity. So I simply do not understand, Minister, how one can say on the one hand that the European Union is not perfect, but, on the other hand, that we never do anything to make it less imperfect. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129150641	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129150642	It is, of course, absolutely essential and clear that there are, like, two debates here. It is about the fact that we have an EU treaty, we have cooperation, and about how we solve the problems that citizens experience in their everyday lives. For example, the greed we see when big companies do not pay the tax they have to pay; the cynicism we see when cynical backers take advantage of free movement to make wage dumping; the fact that we do not take the climate challenges seriously and do not make proper action plans to ensure that we have a climate for our children and grandchildren. I believe that this is where the citizens are waiting for action, and that is what we are concentrating on, not on endless Treaty discussions, which require the consensus of 27 countries and with which we have experience of focusing on the real problems that citizens are experiencing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129150729	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129150730	I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs is simply wrong. I think it is true that there is a desire to solve the climate problem and international tax problems, but I believe that there is an almost equal desire to stop the EU's continuing attack on Danish sovereignty, for example. the area of aliens and welfare. At no time have I been in a Danish town where there has been a cheerful choir that has said: Yes, let the EU take over some more areas so that they can be allowed to distribute more Danish social benefits. I've never seen it before. It may be that the Secretary of State has experienced it. Then I'd like to know what kind of city it is, because then I'd like to take an immediate excursion there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129150801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129150802	I just wish that the questioner went into the fight with the rest of us to improve the European Union's cooperation. That is now a concrete example, and I hope that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt supports ^ when we fight hard for a road package to end the Wild West on the European and Danish roads, where drivers and hauliers come in, who do not comply with the Danish rules on proper pay and working conditions. We are fighting to make a road package, but where is the questioner? I think it is very important that we resolve the specific problems and do not lose ourselves in major intellectual discussions that do not have a solution here and now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129150838	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129150839	We're gonna help you with that package. That is not the case today. What I am asking is: How do you intend to use the window created by brexit in order to create a situation where Denmark can take back some power? I have mentioned a number of areas in which it is the government's policy that the EU should not decide. And then we have a foreign minister who sits here with folded hands and says: Uha, we certainly should not shake too much with the boat, because the Danes want common regulation when it comes to taxes and climates. That's not what we're talking about. We are talking about where the Danes do not want common regulation. Is it really true that no one in the government intends to do anything to take that power back?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129150913	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129150914	I am glad, then, that the questioner supports the fact that we are making an ambitious road package and that we are making an effort in relation to the climate. Of course, there is sometimes doubt as to whether it is a wholehearted support. I believe that what the citizens so much expect is that we deliver concrete results. In the past, the questioner has been very well aware of this, because I know that the questioner knows his EU history of long discussions on Treaty changes, constitutional treaties, etc., in which some lost their way, while the major problems grew bigger in reality. Let us solve the problems of reality. And I am glad if what the questioner is saying today is that we should do that together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129150949	Thank you. That concludes the question. We move on to the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and which has also been asked by Mr Van Miert. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129150957	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129151000	Will the Foreign Minister, after last week's Berlingske report on how Saudi Arabia sends millions of kroner to, among other things. Taiba Mosqueen on Nørrebro, answer whether he will raise this problem in the EU and thereby work to ensure that in future it will be impossible for darkened regimes in the Middle East, which are often directly hostile to us, to fund their minions behind our own borders?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129151023	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129151024	First of all, I would like to thank the questioner for raising an issue that the government considers very relevant. I would like to make it clear that it is a serious problem for foreign donations to help undermine fundamental democratic values and freedoms in Denmark. The government is very concerned that donations should not risk undermining our democracy and fundamental rights. I can't let that happen. Therefore, the government will also take action against forces abroad that are working to undermine democracy and freedoms in Denmark. In this context, there should also be no doubt that we are ready to use the necessary tools, including legislation. That is precisely why the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration intends to present a bill banning certain donations. The issue of foreign donations is also already the subject of much attention and discussion in the European Union, as the questioner has already mentioned. Because the problem is not only relevant to Denmark. It is also relevant to a large number of other European countries which, like Denmark, will not accept that foreign donations should undermine democratic values and freedoms in Europe. That is why it is also a discussion that we will continue to bring together with our partners in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129151139	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129151140	We find ourselves in a sort of cultural conflict. So, fortunately, there is a large majority of us Danes and others who live in Denmark who subscribe to the desire to live in a free country with fundamental freedoms etc. However, it must not shadow the fact that there are forces around the world that certainly and with great economic muscle fighting for the opposite. They believe that women should go in burka or otherwise be covered and should be considered second-class citizens. They believe that freedom of expression is something that can be shared and that democracy should give way if it conflicts with textbooks written 1,400 years ago in an Arab desert. Those powers are there, and they're not weak. We can see that this is what the Berlingske Tidende has described • how they know very precisely who they have to count on, both in Denmark and in other EU countries. That is why it is good if, as the Secretary of State says, the government is concerned to do something. But this is an emergency situation. We are talking about Koran schools, mosques, etc., who are actively out recruiting people for the cause of our enemies. After all, we have seen it most grudgingly in terms of how to recruit young people and convince them to go to war for the Islamic State and other crazy projects. So it's urgent, Secretary of State. So when is something going on? And what is happening more specifically? When are we going to stop these transfers so that we can at least say that the money in these mosques is not somebody coming from the Wahabist organizations in Saudi Arabia or wherever it may be? Because there's rarely anything good coming from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129151331	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129151332	But it is quite clear that the freedoms and the democracy that we are fighting for, as the questioner also says, are something we stand together about. And I will go even further than the questioner in this debate and say that you start to take these values and rights for granted first and you can sometimes have an experience of that in the world we live in, then I think you're already starting to lose it. We have to fight for this every day. And it's no secret that we live in a world... I also experience that as Secretary of State... where these values are under pressure. And in Denmark we have freedom of expression, and of course we have a democracy that we cherish. That is why it is also important that we look at making a real ban on certain donations. And that's something the government is returning with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129151413	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129151414	It is good that we agree on what we want. It would just be nice to know if we could also be involved in how we do it. Because I do not think it is that simple, and that is why it would perhaps be good to have a discussion in a wider circle, where the Foreign Minister not only says that you are on the matter, but also gives us a little more assurance as to what it is for a case you are on. When, in my question, I specifically ask about it with the European Union, it is of course because one can fear a straw-man situation where, if we ban transfers to Denmark, one simply transfers them to Sweden and then there finds some tyre organisation that leads them to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129151447	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129151448	Well, that is precisely why, in my reply to the questioner, I also stress that what we do in Denmark is really important, but it is also something that we regularly discuss within the EU circle and will deal with. After all, it is our European democracy and our fundamental rights that are at stake. So that is something we stand together on, including with the other EU countries. And I am of the very clear conviction that if we stand together in several countries, we in Europe stand together around these things here, in other words about freedoms, democracy and freedom of expression, then we are much stronger than if we stand alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129151520	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129151520-2	It's good to be strong in the faith. It would just be nice, politically speaking, to know when we will be there. In other words, for example, the Minister for Foreign Affairs can. say that before the current year has run out has stopped for Saudi transfers to mosques in Denmark? Or better still, can the Foreign Minister say that transfers to mosques and other similar institutions in the European Union have been stopped? After all, there is little time to run; it has just been New Year, Minister for Foreign Affairs. Can we have such a guarantee? It's urgent.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129151552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129151553	I am sorry to say to the questioner that the questioner is kicking in an open door. In other words, this is something that the government is deeply concerned about, both with legislative instruments, but also in an alliance with other democratic countries in Europe, in terms of how we ensure that there are no donations, that is, activities that undermine our democracy, our freedom of expression, our values, not least here in Denmark. This is something we are deeply concerned about, and it is something we are going to return to on a regular basis. And I also hope that the debate on how we do it is something that we share, because I think it is something that we have to debate every day. And we must not just take one initiative, we must take many initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129151629	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and thank you to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. The next question, No. 602, is for the Minister of Justice, and this is requested by Mrs Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129151641	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129151644	What will the Minister do about the violation of the freedom of expression of Danish social debaters by excluding them from commenting on Facebook without having committed anything illegal and without being able to get an explanation of why they are excluded?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129151657	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129151658	Social media have revolutionised the way we communicate, and we must recognise that we are dealing with an area that has grown without a clear framework being set. Social media such as: Facebook has given private companies great freedom to define how users can use their pages and platforms. The relationship between a user and a social media is regulated as a starting point by the company's conditions, which you can explicitly accept when creating a user profile. In other words, it is basically a private-law relationship between two parties to the contract. What is at stake is whether everyone has the right and the right to express their opinions on all platforms without limit. As I also said in the context of the consultation on the same subject in the Committee on Culture last November, this is not, of course, a line of thought that we are passing on to the traditional media. Well, we don't say about other media that we have the right to have our letter of reading or discussion recorded in the newspaper, even if you would like it at times. It should not be forgotten that content moderation, i.e. on Facebook, also has an important function, for example. in connection with the removal of terrorist-related content and the like. But with that said, I can easily understand that it can be seen as offensive if you experience being blocked from a social media and perhaps without any information about what the justification is. After all, the whole question of the importance of social media is an extremely complex issue. One might say that here we have an area that has developed ahead of us politically, and we need to find out politically what kind of regulation we want this area to be encased beyond just the contractual relationship. And that is some of what we are actually looking at.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129151858	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129151858-2	Thank you for your answer, which does not provide any clarification. In other words, there seem to be only some very small and incipient ideas about the need to regulate the area here, because that is what you are. After all, this media, that is Facebook, has become a dominant medium, which is absolutely crucial in the social debate. And then we find that some people are excluded without a reasonable reason. It is therefore a question of President Aia Fog and former President Lars Hedegaard, who was excluded from the debate on Facebook because they mentioned Tommy Robinson, the British Islam critic and the freedom of expression activist. But when I write the same thing as a member of parliament, I won't be excluded. So Facebook runs with different standards, and it's imperceptible what it's all about. But Facebook has got a position in the media image, which means that I don't think you can just ignore it and then say that it's a private company and that they have to do whatever they want. There was a time when it was a big case that there were some discotheques that would let some people in, but not others. It became a huge cause, and there was a lot of obsceneness on the part of all legislators and social debaters. Facebook now does exactly the same as the discos once did: they let some in and they let others out and they give no reasonable reason whatsoever for it. It should, of course, be the case that those who do something unpleasant and who can explain why it is that they are being kept out. I fully support that, because, of course, freedom of expression is not unlimited. Freedom of expression is, after all, limited by certain things in our legislation in Denmark. But keeping some out without giving any justification of any kind is highly problematic when one has developed in the direction of Facebook, where one has a very important place in the social debate. That is why I believe that action must be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129152059	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129152100	Here the questioner is exactly entering into a core social democratic position, namely that the market is a good servant, but a miserable master. What we have here is a market which has been allowed to develop and which simply acts on a private-law basis. With the strong position and I agree with Facebook, there are none of us if we want to be on Facebook who are not forced to cross by accepting all the conditions. That is why we are in very unequal relationships. And I share the view that there is a need to regulate the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129152138	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129152139	Because could one at least ask that Facebook should then provide some reasons that are waterproof? If they want to keep people who preach terrorist attacks or call for terrorism or violence out, I would say that we fully understand that, because one can argue for that, but one cannot argue that I must refer to Tommy Robinson on Facebook, but Aia Fog must not refer to Tommy Robinson on Facebook.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129152212	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129152213	I kind of agree. I also find the distinction that has been made strange. It is something else that I do not agree with but it was not, I think, what was in it because I think we are in a place where it can be said that it cannot be up to the social media alone to set the framework. I think that we simply have to put pressure on politically and help determine what the framework must be for such an important social player, just as we do in all sorts of other contexts.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129152241	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129152242	With reference to the discotheques, I do not think there is any doubt that we have to do something, and we have to do it in a way, so we take it into account that Facebook has become incredibly important to our public debate in Denmark, and that is why we cannot allow any politically correct Facebook owners to scale and waltz with the task they have been given, by the fact that it has become so large and dominant a media in today's Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129152317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129152318	We are faced with a relatively large task of reaching agreement in principle, namely finding out what concrete regulation should be like. And there are both things that would be said to be illegal statements which would generally be a violation of, for example, the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The paragraph of racism, or whatever, but there is also an area in which freedom of expression and information is simply to be guaranteed. The regulation that is needed is complex, but we are fighting towards it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129152354	Thank you. The question is over, so thank you to Mrs Krarup. We'll continue with the Minister of Justice, and this time it's Mr. Kim. Marcus Knuth, who has to ask questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129152401	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129152404	Thank you very much. What initiatives will the Minister take in connection with the information on the cooperation of Imam Ali Mosque and Taiba Mosque with the Iranian priesthood and Saudi Arabia, and will the Minister examine whether the work of the mosques can be terminated, according to section 67 of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129152426	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129152427	Thank you for the floor. As a Social Democrat, I am deeply concerned about combating totalitarian ideologies which, in one way or another, threaten our free and open democracy and society, whether it be the most obvious Nazism, communism or Islamism. An important element of the social model that we must safeguard is freedom of religion, as the questioner also says, in other words, to ensure that Article 67 of the Constitution, which states that all citizens of Denmark have freedom of religion, is respected. But freedom of religion is not without limitations. According to Paragraph 67 of the Constitution, there is the restriction of protection that • nothing is taught or done which is contrary to morality or public order. This means that the legislature has the right to establish the framework for freedom of religion which is required by considerations of morality and public order. That is why, of course, it is also totally unacceptable that, for example, we should be able to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. anti-democratic foreign organizations, individuals or authorities are trying to gain influence by sending money to religious institutions and religions here in Denmark. That is precisely why the government will put forward a bill to introduce a ban list for natural and legal persons who, with donations, seek to counteract or undermine democracy and fundamental freedoms. The aim of the draft law is to prevent, for example: schools and religions receive larger donations from darkened and anti-democratic forces. The underlying position is clear: we will not accept that outside dark forces are trying to undermine or counter our democracy, and I hope, believe and expect that there will be a broad majority in the Folketing that will support the bill that we expect to put forward during this session.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129152629	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129152630	That is a very good thing, but I think we should go much further than just putting forward a legislative proposal that would ban donations. After all, we have already adopted various laws which have obviously not worked well enough. I think we should go one step further and, as the Minister says, use Paragraph 67 of the Constitution, which states that when something is contrary to public order and morality, it is not acceptable, and then we simply have to close these mosques. If we start with the Imam Ali Mosque, then, as Berlingske has recently demonstrated very clearly, it has a close connection with the Iranian priesthood. It is no more than a month since the Iranian priestly regime bombed Danish soldiers in Iraq, and the very same mosque has been out in public in a demonstration and hailing a former leader of among others. the revolutionary guard of the Iranian priestly government. If it's not breaking public order, I don't know what it is. If we look at the Taiba Mosque, it has been the home of an incredibly large number of hate preachers, Guantánamo prisoners and even the Danish terrorist Omar el-Hussein, and if it is not also breaking public order, then I do not know what it is. So my question is: more legislation on donations is fine, but does the Minister agree with me that we are actually going out and closing these mosques?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129152759	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129152800	I mean, just to get it straight and it's a little complicated, it's section 78 of the Constitution that is about citizens having the right to form an association for any legitimate purpose without prior permission. Then who decides what is legal purpose? Yeah, we do, among other things. In fact, it provides a framework for what can be done legally and illegally. What makes something illegal in this context is that what the questioner also said must be against morality or public order.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129152835	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129152836	But now the Minister of Justice is in the fantastic position of having the entire Ministry and the entire civil service, etc. Behind them, and we have made legislation in the past that enabled people to keep the preachers of hatred and so on. Out. Specifically: does the Minister agree with me that these mosques should be closed and will the Minister work for legislation that can do this in the short term?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129152858	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129152859	Unfortunately, I only have 30 seconds at a time, because what I was trying to say before was that the law, the framework in which we are going to enter, is complex. We have just had the matter with Loyal to Familia, and so, lifting the burden of proof that something is going on here that has a non-legal purpose and that, when we come over to § 67, is contrary to morality or public order, sounds easy, but is a relatively complicated burden of proof to lift. I believe that what we need to do in the first place is to ensure that we stop the flow of money. It's relatively lighter relative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129152940	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129152941	It is interesting that the Minister mentions Loyal to Familia, for the Minister's predecessor was very clearly out to say a year and a half ago that he felt that the Constitution should be in his hand to ban Loyal to Familia. He has now received the support of the city court. So now I am trying to ask the Minister directly: does the Minister agree that we should close these mosques and will the Minister work to ensure that this can actually happen, as we have done with, for example, the situation? Loyal to Familia?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153009	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153010	But I think I said quite clearly in my initial answer that I am arrogantly opposed to these totalitarian ideologies, of which extreme Islamism is one of them, and which we, among others, are. in some of the countries that have been raised by the questioner. I'm just saying that this is a complicated process, because there are some constitutionally relatively strong protections, and we appreciate that in a second context we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153042	Thank you to the Minister for Justice, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Marcus Knuth. We move on to the next question, which is addressed to the Minister for Taxation, and this has been asked by Mrs Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153052	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153056	Does the Minister agree that it is urgent that we clarify the registration fees for electric cars for 2021 and onwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153106	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153107	Yes, I agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153109	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153117	Thank you for that very clear and precise answer. I am incredibly pleased that the Minister agrees. It is the case that we stood down here in the Parliamentary Chamber two weeks ago, when the blue block had a motion for a resolution to continue registration fees for the cheap electric cars by 2021. Unfortunately, the red block would not be included because you are waiting for the work of the Transport Commission. Unfortunately, the Transport Commission does not come up with their conclusions until the summer. They should have come to some conclusions in the autumn. In the government's understanding paper, you can see that the government will examine whether it can advance the work of this Transport Commission. But the Minister said in the Stock Exchange on 16 January that the Minister would not press for this work. So I would like to know whether the Minister can elaborate on whether the government has examined whether it can bring forward conclusions from the work of the Transport Commission or whether it is not so urgent and that it can therefore wait.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153222	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153223	The work of the Transport Commission follows the timetable chosen by the former bourgeois government when setting up the Transport Commission. And the questioner represents the party that had both the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of Finance, and if one had been so quick to do something for the electric cars before the elections, perhaps one should have organized the work a little differently. But we are not going to stand here and discuss that. What I would like to hear is how that bill of 850 million. kr. must be paid if the proposal put forward by the Left is to be implemented. Is it education, is it the sick, is it the elderly who have to pay the bill for the policy which the Left has now suddenly embarked upon after the parliamentary elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153306	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153307	After all, I am asking questions to the Minister, not the other way around, but it is quite true that the Left and the then government have been very concerned about getting the electric car sales started, and that is also why we in the Left, in our financial legislation, had funding to ensure lower taxes on cheap electric cars, i.e. those of less than DKK 400 000. In fact, we think it is quite urgent. The car industry itself also says that if we do not already ensure clarity about registration fees for electric cars from 2020-2021, we risk the burgeoning sale of electric cars simply stalling. Does the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153350	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153351	There is no doubt that there will be an important discussion here. I just don't understand why the Left wasn't anything more active when they set up the commission themselves. Instead of spending time on this, we should get together and find out what challenges we are facing when it comes to the green transition of our transport sector. What I see the Left did was to set up a commission which, when they set it up, had a different timetable than now when they stand here in opposition and want it to be brought forward and put forward resolutions in the Folketing, whose coinage would cost several hundred million kroner, without providing funding for it. I don't think that's serious. What I think is serious is what the government has done in the Finance Act, where we have maintained the low taxes so that it is still cheap to buy an electric car and so it is at the same level as it was last year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153434	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153435	I understand that the Minister considers it urgent for us to have clarity on registration fees for 2020-2021, and I also understand the answer to invite some negotiations to ensure that. Is that correct? Will the Minister already look at securing the low registration fees for 2020-2021, and also before the conclusions come from the Transport Commission?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153459	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153500	I am well aware that the Left has voted against the funding that the government has given to maintain the lower taxes. What we are doing is maintaining the lower fees for 2019 into 2020. Now it is going to be a little technical, but the resolution that the Left tabled was about the fact that the initially slightly higher taxes that should be by 2020 should be retained into 2021. So the proposal made by the government, together with the SF, the Alternative, the Enhedslisten and the Radicals, is actually in isolation this year cheaper and better for those who want an electric car than what the Left has proposed. Despite this, what the Left proposed costs is 850 million. kr., and there's not even a penny of it financed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153545	Thank you. The question is over. But we will continue with the tax minister, and it is also Mrs Bjerre who has asked the next question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153550	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153553	When does the Minister expect there to be clarity on the registration fees for electric cars for 2021?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153601	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153601-2	As we well indicated in the debate before, the clarity of the work carried out by the Commission on the Green Conversion of the Transport Sector and Passenger Vehicles is apparent. This is very, very important and we must ensure that a strategy is put in place for the long-lasting conversion of our transport sector. We will be discussing this when the Commission makes its recommendations here in 2020, so that we can get to grips with the negotiations on this very, very important issue, namely vehicle taxes. This is important for several reasons: it is important for car owners, it is important for the household economy, and it is important for our business community. I therefore hope that the Left will be actively committed to entering into these discussions and not, as now, making unfunded proposals for several hundred million kroner, but sit down seriously and discuss it here. Because if we are to achieve the objective of the gentleman who was in the Chamber just now, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, sitting down when he said that one should have 1 million zero-emission cars by 2030, I think it has to be said that if we do not ensure a sustainable transition, including on the tax side, we will have a hole that is far, far bigger in the box than what the Left has allowed to strike with the proposal they have put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153721	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153722	Thank you for your answer. The answer and the question quite rightly follow on from the previous question and the motion for a resolution that we had in this Chamber two weeks ago. There the Minister said, as the Minister also now repeats, that this proposal will cost 850 million. kr. These were new numbers that came on the table two weeks ago. I have then then asked about it in committee, so what it actually costs to continue the bottom allowance, so that the cheap electric cars under DKK 400 000. continue to be exempt. And there's the answer, 250 million. kr. It's just that we have the right numbers. The Minister himself has answered this question in connection with a committee question. So back to my question about when you expect clarity on registration fees in 2021. I understand the answer that we are awaiting the Transport Commission, and would that mean that we can only start negotiating the fees for 2021 towards the financial law negotiations in November and December 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153824	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153825	Now the commission needs time to do its job. After all, the previous government, led by the author's party, has set up the Commission, and I assume that it was wanted to be a thorough work, which is a good reason for doing so. Because if you do not do anything, do not change the taxes as you switch the transport sector, it is a staggering billions that we will be missing. The previous government itself pointed this out, and that is why the Commission was set up to find out what to do. They are working on that now, and I hope that we can find each other in a broad agreement. After all, the Left has agreed, as it says, to the objectives of the green transition, and the transport sector will be the key to it. So I hope the Left is ready for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153911	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153912	It just didn't give much response to when the Minister then expects there to be clarity about the registration fees for 2021. I do not believe that we can wait until the autumn, November, December, for clarification of registration fees. However, it may be that it is because the Minister is of the same opinion as the Radical Left, who believes that a guarantee has been given with the current Finance Act that registration fees will not be raised in 2021, but will continue with what is now available. Does the Minister agree with that view?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129153942	I think that a great many of those who are looking at this find it a little strange that there is a questioner who represents a former government party who has set up a commission to come forward with its work so that we can decide on it, so that it can be implemented by 2021, and then you stand and accuse the current government that the commission you set up yourself is not working fast enough, and you say that it should come with the result sooner. Maybe I'm the one who misunderstood something, but isn't that a little weird? If you had been so quick about the green transition when you were in government, you could have written it in that mandate, but that has not been done, and that is why the Commission is working on it here. The position of the government is quite clear: we are pleased that the Left has turned around on a plate and which the last party has endorsed the ambitious objectives, and I hope that will be the reality when we look at the transport sector too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129154028	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129154029	I find it very difficult to see that the Left should have changed anything or turned around on a plate. We would just like to continue the low registration fees for electric cars both in 2020 and in 2021, and that is also why we tabled that resolution 14 days ago. But we would also like to wait for the Transport Commission to have the long-term solution. But we're so worried about what's going on in 2021. Are we stalling the sale of electric cars because there is no clarity about now what is going to happen in 2021? Does the Minister not fear that we will put a stop to the sales of electric cars by the fact that there is no clarity about the rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129154106	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129154106-2	That is why we are doing the work thoroughly. But if the Left had spent the time and effort on something other than making huge billboard ads in the election campaign, which said that we had to have 1 million zero-emission cars by 2030, the time was spent calling the parties of the Folketing to find out what was suddenly discovered, namely that it cost a staggering billion dollars if you did what they said on those ads you put in, then we could have spent the time on the other. However, a Commission was set up, and the Commission has one of the largest, you might say, conversion tasks of our transport sector that we have seen. I believe that everyone has an interest in doing this properly so that we can ensure that the transport sector is green and that it will be easy to acquire an electric car and that we are all involved in taking a green responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129154149	The question is over and we thank the Minister for Taxation and Mrs Bjerre. The next person to ask questions is sir. Per Larsen, and it's for the Minister of Health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129154201	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129154207	Thank you. Following the Minister's announcement that the government will promise that a health reform has been carried out before the parliamentary elections in 2023, will the Minister state why the government has not called for negotiations on a health reform so that the Danes can have a new health reform this year that will ensure more closeness and security?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129154229	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129154230	Thank you for the question. The government is setting a new direction for our health care. We see a health agreement as a process of several steps on the way, because the objective is a health service that fights inequality in health, gives time to the patient, creates closeness and cooperation, and is much stronger when it comes to prevention. Does that mean we'll come up with a plan tomorrow? No, because we're starting from the end. We are working to strengthen the health service where it matters to patients and relatives and to the employees who make a huge effort every day and who run strong, in many places too fast. So, as we see it, there are three essential stages towards a comprehensive health agreement. First of all, we must ensure that health care has a solid foundation at all. This requires an economic priority for our health services, and that is what we are doing. With the 2020 Finance Act, we have prioritised 1.1 billion. kr. in the area of health and the elderly, which follows on from the economic agreements, which raised the regions by 1.5 billion. kr. and the municipalities with 2.2 billion. kr. It is the means to put a bottom under welfare that must be more time to care for patients and more time to professionalise health professionals. That is the prerequisite for us to go further and have better health care. The second stage is that we must have an open and inclusive process and find out exactly where and how structural improvements are needed now that we know that our regions are being maintained as a key player in a decentralised healthcare system. Then comes the third stage in which I will call for political negotiations and hopefully conclude a broad overall health agreement against the narrow health agreement of the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129154428	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129154430	Thank you for your answer. It is clear that with the challenges there are, one can be a little impatient as a health rapporteur. After all, there is probably an excellent proposal from the previous government in the Minister's drawer on which one could just build. It is about more closeness and security, as municipalities, hospitals and practitioners are moving closer together to make the best use of resources. It acts among other things. 20 more emergency preparednesss spread across the country, which can help ensure rapid assistance, because there are actually examples of situations here in Denmark, where more than 30 minutes pass before emergency assistance reaches the victim. It's basically about life and death. So would it not be appropriate if it were the case that we quickly got to grips with the problems we have and which are piled up?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129154524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129154526	I understand that one can also be impatient as rapporteur, but we have a new government, which means that the old government's plan, for which there was no broad support, will not be pulled out of the drawer again. Our ambitions are greater. We want a health service that puts an end to the totally unfair inequality in health that we have today and which, far better than the previous government would, ensures that we get some more colleagues for our staff who are running too fast today, so that they have more time to be there for their patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129154558	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129154559	The short question must then be: when can we expect to be called to these negotiations? Because of course we want to be part of an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129154611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129154612	I am pleased to hear that Conservatives are joining forces here in connection with the forthcoming Health Agreement. I would like to go a long way in that, because it is untenable that the crown jewel in our society should move around and depend on what comes out of different election results. So a broad deal will be important to me. What we are addressing now is phase two, that is to say the inclusive phase in which we reap all the good examples and ideas, but also look at what is wrong and then stage three comes, and I look forward to addressing that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129154647	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129154648	It was no more concrete than that. It's all right with those different phases, but there's got to be something to debate, and there's got to be something to talk about, and there's got to be something to talk about, and I miss an answer about when there might be a play that you can sort of get sent out and get qualified around. It was not the case that the proposal, which I suppose is still in the Minister's drawer, was not qualified because, of course, we had been out talking to various stakeholders in this area so that we could get it qualified and clarify the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129154724	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129154725	If you look at the debate then, one of the major criticisms from patient associations and employee organisations was that you might have listened, but you had not heard so much after you had included it in your health draft and your health agreement, and we will not make that mistake. That is why I can only call on the rapporteur to remain constructive and to continue to be a part of it and to reap all the good ideas he can so that we have as many good ideas as possible to work on when we start political negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129154800	Thank you. The question is closed. We shall continue with the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Health and the elderly, and which has also been asked by Mr Beazley. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129154808	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129154811	Thank you. Will the Minister explain how the Minister will respond to the increasing pressure on health care that will be in the coming years towards 2023, among other things? because of more admissions, more elderly people and more critics, when the Minister cannot guarantee that there will be a health reform by 2023?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129154830	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129154830-2	Thank you very, very much. For the government has clearly heard the cry of distress from our skilled health professionals who, every day and every night, at all times of the day, on public holidays are working hard in our health care. We respect the need, first and foremost, to provide more resources, more hands, more colleagues for the sake of our staff and for the sake of patients. That is why, with the agreements that came into force here from the turn of 2020, we are giving the greatest economic boost in several years. At the same time, the re-prioritisation contribution in the regions has been abolished. Action has been needed immediately. Let us take the nurses as an example. We can see that they are already running fast today. This is a trend that needs to be reversed, because in the years to come there will be more elderly people and more multi-sicknesses. They need care, and they deserve care, without the nurses having to run even faster. And it is simply not possible for them to run faster. That is why the Finance Act has financed the recruitment of 1,000 more nurses in the hospitals and recently concluded an agreement with Danske Regions on this. A task force has been set up to help train and recruit more social and health workers and maintain existing employees. With the economic boost in both regions and municipalities, we have thus given the economy to employ more health professionals, because the bustle experienced in health care is not something we can remedy here at Christiansborg by drawing some lines on a map of course not. In addition to raising the bottom level and creating the framework for our healthcare professionals to have a more reasonable everyday life, we must, of course, also look forward. We need to improve our health services in a structural way. We need to create more closeness and cooperation across the board, and this time health care needs to be consulted. This is the phase of involvement that we are now setting in motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129155030	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129155031	I recognise, of course, that it is essential to have qualified decisions taken, but time is just passing. We have Danmarks Statistik to stick to, in relation to how the task just grows and grows. We know that the number of +80-year-olds is growing by 58 per cent. for this 10-year period. We also know that 58 per cent. It is true that more 080-year-olds are drawing resources, because we know that when you pass that age, you really will have to draw on the health care system. At the same time, we know that the number of persons aged 65-79 also increases by a considerable number. So these are huge challenges that lie right at our feet. After all, constructive solutions should be found to them as soon as possible. I'm a little puzzled that you're going to drag it off like that. It is clear that money in one year, of course, covers one year, but we look into something that is really challenging in relation to the very great challenges we actually have today. So it is worrying, I think, that things are dragging on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129155149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129155150	It is true that demographics, population compositions, are changing in these years, and therefore we can see that there are also more patients. That is why it is absolutely necessary that, before drawing new lines and making new organizational arrangements in health care, we should have lifted the bottom. A figure can be seen: the last year before the parliamentary elections of the previous government, there were more patients, but 302 fewer nurses. That's one of the reasons they're squirting around out there. This government has made a bill of finance that promises over the next two years with 500 new nurses in year 1 and with 1,000 new nurses in year 2.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129155228	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129155229	You then address it all in relation to a big deal. After all, we have some elements in our health services that I actually think we all agree on across. Let me take a subject like this with double diagnosis. Well, we have some addicts, typically young addicts, who have a psychiatric diagnosis. There, I believe, we in the Folketing broadly agree that we could solve this challenge quite quickly by making some amended legislation so that this issue was anchored in one place. So we have some young people here who are more or less left to themselves, and there are no treatment options, because in psychiatric practice they do not want to treat addicts and because they do not want to treat psychiatric patients at the abuse centres. I think we could take care of that right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129155320	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129155321	Thank you for mentioning that. We are talking about some of our most vulnerable people here. They typically live in settlements, and it is after all some who have major social and mental problems that are self-medication, they go in and out of psychiatry, which are hard pressed. That is why it is good that we have taken it up. But from this point of view a handshake is that let us tackle it together as the first problem when we are going to draw up a 10-year plan for psychiatry, that is to say as one of the important stepping stones that will then result in a comprehensive health agreement. But for my sake, let us at last do it as quickly as possible, because this is a problem that requires action.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129155359	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129155400	Well, I welcome that answer, because I think that there are some elements in our healthcare system, and I think that there is a broad consensus that we can meet together on some constructive solutions that can solve some of those acute problems. I would therefore appeal to the Minister to get them sorted out quickly and to take all the places where we agree so that we can get it done quickly. And so I would say that it can be done in isolation and then take the main lines of the health reform in a different context. But we do have some problems that we would like to resolve quickly, here and now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129155441	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129155442	Again, I would like to sign for the very, very constructive approach, and I also think that this was a sign of it when we were negotiating before Christmas a very important preventive action: the national action plan to prevent children and young people's smoking, which is also the biggest killer. And we took a lifehold with the issue • a very important step for prevention in Denmark. And those parts of the issues that we can solve along the way, we have to solve. Here is another example. And then we need to look more fundamentally at the cooperation between municipalities and regions, and I am also looking forward to inviting you to negotiations on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129155522	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Per Larsen and Minister for Health and the Elderly. We go to the Minister for Children and Education, and it is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, Conservatives, who has asked a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129155536	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129155540	Thank you. Can the Minister explain why the focus has not been on debureaucratisation in the day institutions rather than on minimum standards when an analysis shows that educators only spend 51 per cent. of their time on the children, and why does the Minister think that it is okay to undermine municipal autonomy by allowing the Folketing to decide on minimum standards?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129155610	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129155611	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. To the end first: The cut between what the Folketing has to decide and what to decide locally is for eternal debate. We have now taken a decision to make statutory minimum standards in order to put a bottom under the day institutions. We have done so because the quality around us has become too poor. Could you have chosen to do so in other forms? Yeah, you could. And it was, in fact, some other forms in which the Social Democratic Party went to the polls. There has been a very strong desire on the part of our support parties that it should be in a legal minimum standard form. We have agreed that there should be more hands out there, which means that the method has actually been discussed. There are different incisions on that. I think the most important thing is that more hands come out in the day institutions, because they have become too starved. To the second part, I would say that we should not turn this into a numerical war. We have previously conducted a study in the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs from 2018, which showed that the direct time with the children was 67 per cent. Whether it's one thing or the other, it's just to say that we don't have to make a number war out of it, it's something we have to pay huge attention to. After all, the pedagogues are not the only professional group where we have to pay close attention to how much of the time you get picked out and spent on something else. In the day-off area, we've done what I call a non-paragraph. It has come into force relatively recently, moreover, in collaboration with the former Minister for Children, Mrs Mai Mercado, and it is simply to prevent control from being applied to control, layers on layers on layers on top of what we expect educators to do in everyday life, which is not about children. I think that's one of the ways if I have to point it that way. In fact, I have great hopes for exactly the so-called non-paragraph, because that is where the educators are protected from coming from above and saying that you must do the same, and you must do the same, and you must do all sorts of things that are not about the children at all. So it's just a bid for • within the relatively short time that is to answer the question • how I think we can get up to a higher confrontation time, as you also call it in that ratio. Over the past few decades, however, we have been plaguing all sorts of things beyond the public sector, asking staff to do something different from what they are actually working for. That's not good.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129155827	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129155828	Exactly, and now I have time to clarify the question a little. A report from the FOA from 2017 describes that employees today spend significantly less time of their working time on direct work with children than in the early 1970s, when employees spent 72%. of their time with the children, while the corresponding figure today is estimated to be 51 per cent. of the time spent by the staff directly with the children. Since the early 1990s, there has been a wave of decentralization, which means that a number of administrative tasks are laid out in the institutions. These are financial management, payroll management, contract management with increased requirements for evidence of service objectives. And then there will also be state demands and increased meeting activities in places where area management has also been introduced. CEPOS has calculated that if we return to the 1978 level of time spent on children, 5,000 additional educators can be picked up. Was it not obvious that the government was looking to free up the hands of children by focusing on debureaucratisation rather than introducing minimum standards where parents will pay more?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129155944	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129155945	Thank you. Fortunately, it is not contrary to each other. And since we believe that there is a considerable need for extra adults around children in the country's day care institutions, fortunately both tools can be used at the same time. In other words, we intend to continue with the non-paragraph and ensure that it also works in reality. There is some follow-up work on it, and we knew that when we introduced it. We intend to continue in line with what the previous government did. That was something we agreed on, and I think it is quite essential. We ourselves, in the Parliamentary Assembly, have been involved in discussing whether we should introduce the same thing with regard to primary school, i.e. a non-para graph, and I believe that this is something worth discussing in the public school circle. One or the other is not contrary to respectful class ratios or minimum standards. I think we need a great many different tools, but I would like to say on the part of the issue that I understand there is, as it were, underneath and which is about whether it is not crazy that we are using our powers in the public sector for something that is not valuable in terms of time with the children, which is what we really are spending the tax dollars on, that, of course, we agree on that. I've never come across a government that didn't agree with that. What is just the challenge is to come up with what makes it not just rising and rising, and I actually think that the non-paragraph is one of the ways to go. I think we have found one of the tools that is needed. It's not just something we're talking about, but it's something we can actually do. Because that is where you can no longer decide as a municipality that, on top of what we have decided from in here, you will find some American concept that you would like to have those institutions spend time on, while in the institution they really just like, for example. will spend time with the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129160125	Thank you. I regret that I came here to give the Minister too much time. I also thought it was a little long). But the Minister continued to speak. Yes, yes, but if I am not stopped by the President, then I think I'd better keep going. We will correct that and then we will be a little more generous with the questioner next time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129160142	Thank you. I'm glad, because I'll have a little more time. The Minister himself mentioned earlier what the Minister's own party has announced in the election campaign. There were also a number of mayors who were out in the election campaign to talk about municipal autonomy. That is why I would like to hear why the Minister is not defending local self-government. Should not a decision on minimum standards be anchored in the individual municipality, since they are in charge of the operation of day-care institutions? There are, for example: Frederiksberg Municipality and Helsingør Municipality. They are very good examples of municipalities that have themselves introduced minimum standards, and if I remember quite correctly, I actually believe that Gladsaxe Municipality has done so or is on its way. They are very good examples of municipalities that have done so on their own. Why isn't the Minister protecting local government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129160235	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129160237	This is such a slightly bearded debate, because this is something we have negotiated with our support parties who would have liked to have done so. Now I know that the rapporteur cannot call one of the support parties in consultation, but that is not the method that the Social Democratic Party would have preferred to use. We have been in agreement on this point. That is also what we said in the election campaign. We could hear that unless the Social Democracy alone got 50 per cent. of the votes, so it would be the case that we had an armor on the method. But we in the Social Democratic Party have been most concerned with the fact that more hands came out. Then our support parties have been very concerned that it was in this precise form. We can live with that. We are not orthodox as far as the method is concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129160320	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129160321	Then I would like to return to the issue of standards again. To take a tangible example, a calculation from the EPOS shows that 1 kindergarten will receive 1 more educator to 57 children on the basis of the minimum standards that the government would like to have. That is why I would like to ask: are the proposed standards not purely symbolic, because minimum standards will only give 0.4 extra in a nursery with 12 children and 0.3 extra in a nursery with 18 children?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129160359	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129160400	It goes without saying, then, that there are some places where we are now simply above what is introduced as standards. In this way, you have to think of minimum standards in the same way as a class quotient. When you made the flexible class ceiling on youth education, it meant a lot to the technical schools that had classes of 45 in each. When you make a flexible class ceiling of 28, it means a lot there. But I think that at the same time the stuckers had three students in one class, because that was what was per. vintage, if I remember correctly. A flexible class ceiling of 28 means something very marginal. The most recent study on the situation in the institutions shows that they are very different, and therefore it is very different whether you want to see this as a step forward. Those who have bad relationships will see it as a great advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129160447	Then we thank Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, Conservative. And we welcome Mrs Marie Krarup, Dansk Folkeparti, who has asked questions to the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129160457	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129160458	Thank you. What will the Minister do about the fact that a recent report on secondary education shows that the knowledge of pupils has decreased over the years, as it shows, among other things. is described in Berlingske on January 16, 2020 in the article "New Big Report: The Basic Skills Lame with Danish High School Students"?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129160519	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129160519-2	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. I would like to begin by adding some nuances to the interpretation of the report on the professionalism of high school students. Because we cannot actually conclude from the report that the academic level of pupils has fallen over the years. We can conclude that it has changed over the years, and that is actually something quite different. Students have become better at some things than they were in the past, and they have become worse at other things than they were in the past. So it has simply changed and therefore it cannot be concluded that it has deteriorated overall. For example, the participants in high school teachers and university lecturers point out: That students today have become better at using mathematics in real-life issues and to conduct source criticism in Danish, while they have become inferior to Danish academic reading and basic mathematics skills. So something is going in the right direction, and something has gone in the wrong direction, so to speak. There is no wonder that students' professional skills change over time. The teaching in the classroom has also changed, as society changes and the Ministry changes the framework of the courses and changes the framework and requirements of the subjects. For example: media added the curriculum in Danish, and it is included in the curricula of mathematics that the so-called csr-tools are used in teaching. Following the 2016 Gymnasium reform, a written dimension in history was introduced at stx and made it compulsory to learn about gender equality in social sciences. So when you fill up more, there will usually be less room for something else. It is a persistent challenge to find the right balance between knowledge, skills and competences in the professional requirements of all degree programmes. I think we have ended up where a little too little attention has been paid to the basic skills of students both in primary and upper secondary education. So I think that there is work to be done, and that is why I would like to take part in looking at how we can achieve a better balance. I do not have a complete solution for how we do it. But I think that, for example, we are. can make a little difference to the eux and its combination of practical learning and general study preparation. I would very much like to invite you to take it up in the high school circle and have a thorough discussion of it. I think that was relevant. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129160734	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129160736	Thank you. I am, of course, pleased that the Minister thinks this is relevant. However, I would like to point out that the Minister did not actually reply exactly to my question, because I had asked for knowledge. I have not asked about professionalism, because I think that report is a little too clever because it says that professionalism has not fallen, but that professionalism is stable. It's just that you've redefined professionalism. That is what the problem is, because the part which is the part of knowledge or knowledge is that the report also shows, and that is what I think is disastrous. I'm not just saying anything, 'cause we've redefined what we're doing today at school, so that's good enough. Today, you shouldn't be able to spell. Today one should not be able to count; so don't worry that they can't, for they are good at cooperation, or they are good at real-life issues in mathematics. It just turns out that when they move on to universities it is not good enough. There are a large number of problems, particularly in mathematics, where too much knowledge has simply been taken out of professionalism. The profession has been too redefined for it to work when they go further at university, for there you have to be able to even some of the basic things that are inside it I don't know what to call practical mathematics, perhaps. I am sure that there is the same problem in other areas. Therefore, what I want is, in fact, a debate on how to re-defined professionalism, so that we avoid that the knowledge part, the knowledge part, and what is called the paralytic part, are taken out of professionalism so that we actually ensure that students learn the basics of schools. This is a debate I would like to take.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129160936	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129160938	Somehow I have the feeling that the rapporteur did not really hear the last thing I said. At least that's how it works on the response to it. That's why I'm gonna do it one more time. I'm just reading up; then it'll be pretty much the same as last time in rough terms: I think we've ended up where there's too little focus on students' basic skills both in primary school and in secondary education. I would therefore like to look at how we can achieve a better balance than today. I do not have a complete solution for how we do it, but we can, for example, do it. I would therefore like to take it up in the upper secondary school circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129161018	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129161019	I am really glad that you want to take it up. But I just don't think you can talk yourself out of the fact that there's also been a fall in high school. We can't by doing it about practical school win it back again. We need to reformulate or re-formulate the concept of professionalism in relation to something similar to what was in the past, where the knowledge part was a greater part of it. That is what I oppose. So I would very much like to come to negotiations. I think it's really, really good if you're willing to take it up. But I also think that one has to recognise that there has been a loss in high school that one cannot define oneself out of.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129161102	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129161103	I obviously cannot put myself in such a way that the questioner hears what I think I am sending out. Because, as I hear what I myself say, it is an indication that what has happened is that the balance has shifted and that I would like it to move not quite back again, but some of the way back again. It is as if the questioner hears it as a refusal that things have changed. It's not. I am just saying that the overall level has not fallen, but that is what I think is more important than the part that has now been given too much gas. That is why it is a fairly open door that is being kicked in, and I obviously cannot put that in a way so that the rapporteur can hear it. I agree. I believe that the level of skill has fallen to too low a level in that balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129161145	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129161146	I'm glad that's finally being said, because that's not what I heard before. Because it has fallen to an unacceptablely low level. We must not talk ourselves out of it, as I believe those who have written the report are trying so hard to do. Because you have to read that report very carefully to understand what disaster it actually describes in a slow way, because it says that professionalism is stable and that it has just changed. We should not accept such a change in professionalism today, as is the case and as has been done in the past. There is a need to tighten up. But I am glad if the Minister supports that view. We are happy and willing to make good proposals on what can be done in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129161241	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129161243	I look forward to seeing them very much, and I think that we should proceed quite specifically. I do not think I would take the word disaster in my mouth, because I think it is essential enough that there are some things that have become more effective. I would like to avoid throwing out too much of the bathing water. That is why I also hope that the proposal will not just rewind what was once, but actually have some good concrete proposals on how we maintain it, for example. has become better at real-life mathematics. I think that is, in fact, an important achievement. It must not replace the fact that you also have some skills in mathematics that are absolutely crucial to your higher education. I just want to say that I hope we can find a balanced way through it. I would like to make it clear once again that I believe it is a major problem that the level of skill is falling.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129161325	We thank Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party. And we welcome Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left, who has also asked questions to the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129161334	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129161336	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that close to one in five girls in the oldest classes of primary school, according to a recent study by the Center for Drug Research, there are at least three of the following problems, loneliness, depression, anxiety, suicidal thoughts, self-harm and eating disorders, and what concrete initiatives will the Minister take to move the development in the right direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129161359	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129161400	I've been doing a lot of work on this issue. I have also said that to the questioner before, and I am very pleased that the questioner continues to address it in different contexts. I hope the questioner will continue to do so. I have just had my entire ministry called together on Friday so that we can try to create a common understanding of what is really the problem, because the problem is quite diverse. In this context, we were presented with some of the latest analyses and research. And some of what I think is really interesting about it is really to dare to see that there is a variety of causes and thus also a variety of possibilities for how we should proceed when we have to solve some of these problems. For some, these are very classic social problems, which we have actually always known about, for others are the new problems that are bound up with the way in which we have arranged our school system, because others, in turn, are about pressure on social media and so on. etc. This means that unfolding the problem in its diversity and looking at our time it is throughout the Western world that this problem is what we must dare to do. In any case, I would very much like to be a part of that. I also believe that we need to look at it across the parliamentary committee. If you look across the ministries, it involves a great many different ministries. One of the initiatives we have taken is to start a dialogue on digital education, because it is something of the new that is in our time and where there is a good way to go again. I am absolutely convinced that we will have to look at the framework of our society if we are to put an end to that misfortune. And it's hard. There are simply no snapshot solutions, because we would have taken them long ago. And we must remember that this is not just about the children. If we look at the adult generation, the children are simply mirroring a development that is also among the adults. There are far more people now suffering from stress, anxiety and depression than if we go back in time. This is also true throughout the Western world. That is why we cannot throw out a single thing, as we have done in the past, or take out individual reforms that we have made, because they do not apply in Germany or France. That is to say, there are some things that are necessarily going against. And then I think we've come to do some things that we can rewind backwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129161613	Then it's Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129161614	Thank you. I am basically very pleased with the Minister's attitude and thoughts on this. I myself have also written down the word'snatching' because there is no such thing. The minister has now reviewed the previous consultation, where the minister also carefully reviewed this area and how it is taking place. As my question also says, it is precisely from loneliness to depression and suicidal thoughts. It's very extensive. Now we have just discussed it in the past, and so I would like to hear: what is the Minister's basic position on this? How do we deal with this? The Minister is very well aware of the problems, but how do we solve them?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129161657	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129161700	We can actually dive into two completely different corners. One is the children placed, which is one of the groups where there is a distrust. This is such a very classic social problem. I have been working on this for the last six years as a social rapporteur. So I am no longer doing that now that I am a minister in the field of children and education. However, I was delighted that my colleague and, incidentally, my Prime Minister have already said that something has to be done in this area, because it is a group of children in which there is practically a per centage. definition is really many bumps on the road. If we look at the other corner and what is in my current field, I think we should rewind the discussion that took place a moment ago with Mrs Krarup, I will now be stopped in my answer, but I will come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129161739	Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129161740	Thank you. It is especially in the young years that you get this attention to yourself, and this is where it roots. What good suggestions does the Minister have? Now the Minister himself said that she has become Minister for Children and Education, so what does the Minister have of proposals for how primary school will be better at forming this framework for the good community as a counterweight to this culture of perfection, which we also talk a lot about when we talk about distrust?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129161805	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129161805-2	I think we have a lot of places to go. Now I just mention some of the others, because speaking time is incredibly short. I think some of what we're going in to look at is whether some of the boys start early in school. We can see from the studies that have come that it sits down for the rest of school hours. If they start at a time when they are immature and parents cannot be allowed by the municipality to start later, they start at the back. That will be one point. And when I mentioned the discussion with Mrs Krarup before, it is because I also believe that we should go in and look at what the kids are learning at school today. Has it simply become too fluttering for some groups? While some children thrive extremely well on project work and things that are not skill-based, it might be that there are other groups for whom it is somewhat more difficult. I think it is necessary for us in that debate to re-enter that room and turn it around.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129161859	Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129161900	Thank you. Finally, I would like to refer to something that the Minister said back this summer: we will notice that we have a Social Democratic Minister for Education. What does the Minister mean by that? And what will the Minister actually do so that we can feel it specifically on the well-being?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129161916	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129161917	I'd love if I could tell you that when I'm done being a minister, all the well-being curves are broken. That would be an ambition. I hardly think that there is anything else that would make me more proud than if it were possible. Across all the different groups of children, I believe that this is one of the greatest challenges facing us. But when I do not have it as my objective, it is simply because I do not think the answers are clear enough yet. That means that the first part of this that needs to be driven forward is to understand the issues at all. That is why I will insist on staying there. Then there are a few things you can answer. You can, when it's about the children placed. That is why, as a government, we came up with it as one of the first in relation to the well-being agenda. We've also reported that we're bringing up something about the grade scale. I believe that this is incredibly closely linked to precisely the issue of well-being. So there will be such individual gripes, but we must also insist on the courage to do the long-haired and difficult analysis because it is a problem that moves around the whole Western world.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129162014	Thank you. That's the end of question 11. We move on to Question 12, and it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, the Left, who has asked questions to the Minister for Children and Education. And there we have Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left, as a co-author.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129162030	First of all, it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, the Left, to read the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129162033	Thank you, President. The question is: Is the Minister aware that the City of Copenhagen has cut over 11 million? kr. in a pool where institutions can apply for funds to recruit additional staff for children in need of additional support and that this could be the reason why the 3-year-old child with visual impairment, Paloma, lost his support teacher?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129162059	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129162100	I am well aware of the closure of the support pool in the City of Copenhagen, but also the build-up of a support pedagogic corps as part of a major development of the professional support of the youth and children's administration, among others. day-offer. In addition to the recent mention of the case of Paloma and the inquiries and questions that have been raised about it, I do not know the details of the particular case. However, I understand from the mention that there may have been errors in the application for support by the kindergarten due to a change in the application procedure on 1 January 2020, and that the municipality has given the kindergarten the opportunity to send a new application for support to the girl after the announcement. Whatever the reason for the circumstances of the case, I think it is important to emphasise that we have rules which mean that the municipality must offer support under the Daily Offers Act to those children who need support in order to thrive and develop. In one way or another, this type of case often gives you a little doubt about what the law says, and so I just think that it is important to make it clear that it is written in the law, that it should not be a "can', it is not something that can be be bent; and if a child has a special need for support that cannot be met through a special offer under the day-offer law, then the municipality must offer the child a place in a special day-offer under the Service Act or create an offer under the Service Act in a regular day-offer under the Day-offer Act. I know that Danish Blind Society, among others. in relation to the specific case, it has been pointed out that since the municipal reform in 2007 there has been a decrease in support for the organisation's members and that there are large municipal differences in support. The message from the government is that municipalities must ensure that their support practices are in line with the applicable rules. I almost want to repeat just if there were some who were in doubt that the message from the government is that the municipalities must ensure that their practice of support is in accordance with the applicable rules. This means that any savings and other municipal priorities must not be the reason why those children who need support to thrive and develop do not receive the support they need to be part of a life of play and development and children's communities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129162322	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129162323	I would like to thank the Minister for making it quite clear what the rules are for Paloma, which is blind and is 3 years old, but also for other blind children who need both social support, but of course also support in everyday life when they go to a day's institution, both in terms of being able to enter into play and communities, but indeed just in order to be able to cope with some practical things such as this. to go to the bathroom etc. I have to say that what is perhaps particularly true of blind children is that they do not have the opportunity to just copy what other children do. After all, there is a need for a support teacher who, you can almost say, translate what the children others are doing in order for the blind child to become part of the community. Then I still have to say that at this time when we are talking about this in Parliament, Paloma's parents still do not know how Paloma will be helped in the day offer. Before I went to the Chamber, have I been informed that they have not already received an answer, and they have not, and although the Minister emphasizes as strongly as the Minister does that the municipalities must follow these rules, is there any more that the Minister could do to help both Paloma, but indeed also the parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129162502	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129162502-2	What can be said is that local authorities' practice must be in accordance with the rules in force, and there is such a whole system for this. The stones I can turn to in this context, I would like to return by their very nature, and I would also like to go back and see if there is more that can be done. My view is that attention on this matter is relatively high, but by its very nature I would always like to go back and see if there is more that can be done. You can never deny that there is something you can do. However, I would like to say that I believe that the acquis is extremely clear and I have the expectation that legislation will be complied with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129162548	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129162548-2	Thank you. I now listened to some of the points which the Minister also answered here on the previous question, in which I noticed in particular that the Minister stressed that she would do everything possible to break the curve of well-being, I think it was said. And there I have to say that it is important that this child should thrive in relation to a child like Paloma who needs this extra support. And it could be said that the longer this takes, the worse. So I would like to ask whether there is no possibility that the Minister might in some way make a phone call, we know that it is a social democratic government municipality. I would very much like this child to be able to return to day care.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129162639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129162640	I'd say to the thing about making some kind of call, and then things just work out after that, that's not how it's the world isn't so good that you could make calls, and then everything just works out like that. The challenge with that is that it would have a backside. I also believe that we have seen examples in the past where such an abuse of power was imposed. There are, of course, some completely formal channels, those things have to go down, but if the questioner asks me whether I want to just make a call, then the answer would be quite incredibly clear: yes. Because I believe that we are all caught up in the situations that exist, and that is why we must also use the tools that exist to push for them. And that is why I would also like to say that I want to go back and look at what we have had this discussion about a few other things actually in the last 12 hours, and I think there is good reason to look at how it is that the tools work when municipalities fail to fulfil their responsibilities. I can't judge if they're doing it in this case, I can just say that I'd like to go back and look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129162734	Then we turn to the co-questioner, Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129162742	Thank you. Does the Minister agree with the City of Copenhagen that children with a visual disability, like the 3-year-old Paloma, can receive their support through a prioritization of resources in the institutions and with health professional guidance on support and assistance for children with physical disabilities, chronic diseases and other somatic managements, as the City of Copenhagen has written in their notice on proposals for investment in health professional competence building day care?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129162810	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129162811	I cannot and will not stand and deal with matters in the Parliamentary Chamber. In other words, such a question, which is so specific to an individual, I simply do not think it is even fair to ask. The questioner knows very well that I cannot stand here on a case-by-case basis. Do I believe that blind children generally have a very large need for support? Yes! I mean, yeah! And when I read some sentences several times from my speech paper, it is actually to emphasise that I believe that the legislation in this area is incredibly clear. After all, the Ankestyrelsen is the authority that supervises the compliance of municipalities with the law. In other words, it is the Ankestyrelsen who is going to have to check whether the legislation is being complied with. However, the proceedings are not taking place in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129162854	Then it's Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129162857	Now it is the case that the City of Copenhagen has considered that it is up to the institution itself to carry out the task of supporting children as three-year-old Paloma with its own resources. So does the Minister think that's fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129162911	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129162912	Well, as I said, I'm not gonna go to the Assembly. In fact, I do not think it is fair to ask the question either, because if that were the practice we introduced here, it would mean that I would have to stand and settle matters in this Chamber. I simply believe that we are putting some legal certainty at risk, which I think would be deeply and fervently unreasonable. In other words, I would like to say in principle that I believe that children who are blind need support when they go to day care. And if there is a need for exclamation marks to be put afterwards, because there are some who do not understand it out there, then I would like to read the legislation out incredibly many times if someone had not understood it yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129162949	Then we say thank you to the co-questioner and go to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left, again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129162953	I have great respect for the fact that the Minister cannot, of course, deal with the matter here. I am actually also the type of person who does not like to raise individual cases, but I think this is a matter which has been necessary to raise, even in this Chamber. Because I think there is something in principle in it. There is something in principle about a family ending up in this situation, and I hope the Minister can agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129163021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129163022	I would like to say that I have been a social rapporteur for so many years now, and I think it is actually a separate, really bad problem that parents of children with disabilities are left incredibly much alone in lifting it and finding out about that jungle of legislation, too, in some municipalities where that group of children is expensive. And that means that parents experience that it is not always easy to get the things they really think they can read their way to in the legislation. And in itself it is difficult to have to read the legislation to find out what you are entitled to. I think that we are leaving them very alone, and that is why I agree that this is quite a matter of principle, and the individual case can be used for that, but I simply do not want to deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129163108	Thank you. That's the end of question 12. The next question has also been put to the Minister for Children and Education by Mrs Anni Matthiesen, and there is also a fellow questioner, Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129163121	Here you go to Mrs Anni Mattiesen for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129163124	We will continue a little in the same vein, and we will try not to turn it into individual cases, but maybe make it more fundamental. The question is: Does the Minister believe that it is reasonable for the needs of a blind child to be re-evaluated every three months, and how will the Minister ensure that the same error as in the case of the City of Copenhagen does not happen again and again in other municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129163149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129163150	I admit that is a very fundamental question and I do not know if I have found the stone of the show yet, but I am at least making the attempt. So, first of all, I have promised myself always to say that most municipalities are doing very well, and most municipalities are doing everything they can to ensure that citizens actually get the help they are entitled to. So now I've told you. And then I would like to say that there are some municipalities that do not live up to what they have to do and that put parents in a totally impossible situation and make some children get very seriously in the disability field. I believe that, as a state, we should be better able to use the tools we have in order for the municipalities to comply with the legislation. And again: I do not want to take a stand on the specific issue. I would just like to say that I also know that in some areas the aid that is needed is not being given, and I simply think that the citizens are in a really bad situation and may have very long periods of time when they do not get the help they need. Then I would say in relation to this how often you have to revisit, which was another part of this, as I understand it, that I have also come across it in the housing area, where you have to re-evaluate a child every six months. In other words, in some parts of our legislation we have allowed for some things that I think we need to consider very carefully. Because for a child and for a family, the very uncertainty of what one is entitled to and does not have the right is really difficult to live with, and that means that there is an idea to go in and return to some of the boundaries we have, for when to what, and after all, most people do not stop being blind after 3 months. If there is a problem with that, then I think we should discuss it, just as we have done in the area of housing. Let us put it on the table, and let us take a look at it, for most of the time it is about the fact that in other areas there may be some aids you need, for example. after an operation or similar, where that need ceases again. The question then is whether the distinction in the legislation is good enough. I cannot say that on a stand-by basis, but I can say that I have come across the issue before, and yes, I would like to look at it if there is something in my area where those borders have become foolish.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129163356	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129163357	I agree with the Minister that there are clearly places where it is possible to say that it is a success that you have to return to visit and make a new visit because it is a child who may be developing steadily. But it can be said that in this case, in relation to what we are asking about here, where there is a blind child, forces must be used both in the family and indeed also in kindergarten and in the municipality fixed every three months. That is where I think: is it necessary? And I am thinking immediately of the amount of hours that have been spent on this, where I can almost be quite uncomfortable about how those hours could instead have been spent directly with the children, rather than having to spend time, including in the day care institution, remembering to apply again every three months. I hear the Minister say that it might well be that there was something here we had to take a look at. On the other hand, I also agree that, of course, there should be no more hours of support than is needed and that there may well be children who develop so much in the course of three months that the number of hours of support can be reduced. So I hear the Minister say that it is
ParlaMint-DK_20200129163523	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129163524	I was simply not aware that this was the case before this question. I mean, so new a minister I'm now that I don't know all the details of it. I would say that one of the things I am most in favour of is calmness, cleanliness and regularity, no, perhaps not equal cleanliness, but tranquillity and regularity to take some of the old virtues around children. And especially around the framework for vulnerable children, you just have to say that knowing what you have to deal with, and knowing it out into the future, is important. For yes, I agree: I wonder how many teaching lessons are being spent on it and what exactly it costs, i.e. the constant need to clarify how things stand? But I can also just feel in my stomach how hurt you get in your stomach, if you just got things settled, and you've got the support you've got for your child, and then you have to start over again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129163604	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129163606	I would like to ask whether the Minister believes that it may be problematic that there are no demands on the caseworker's insight into, for example. the needs of the blind, when in this way they are actually going to be involved in assessing whether there is a need for support. I think again that there can be a case officer who may not even know how a blind child acts in a daycare institution. And yet it is a case officer who will then have to decide how much support is to be given.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129163639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129163640	Oh, my God! That's where we're supposed to be careful, isn't it? For there I think we are getting very close to the individual case, where I have no idea what the competences or insights of the social worker concerned are. After all, the municipalities are obliged to have knowledge of what they are dealing with and to take decisions on the authority. Whether or not there has been a specific case, I simply do not have the shadow of a chance to know. However, I note that, whether you are a very competent or not so competent case officer, there is no reason to be forced through the rules to take something up again every three months in relation to a child who is blind. One does not need to have any kind of professionalism to know that for most blind people it does not go so far in 3 months, and that means that then there is really no reason to take it up again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129163725	Thank you. And then it is the co-questioner, Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129163729	What is the Minister's view that this seems to be a purely postcode lottery and that there are so many differences in how the municipalities deal with these matters? What is the Minister's position on this, and what will the Minister possibly do to change it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129163747	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129163747-2	It depends a little on what it covers up. Because if it covers up the possibility of a criminal offence, I don't give a damn about the postal code in this context; the law must be observed. But if it covers up the fact that there is a difference between how the municipalities do things at all, then I just want to say that there is almost twice as much expenditure per person. pupils in the municipalities which spend the most money on school pupils compared to those who spend the least. That is the nature of municipal self-government. However, in relation to infringements of law, the postal code is entirely subordinate to that of course. So if that's what the word in this context covers, I don't think it should have anything to do with zip code.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129163830	Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129163831	Thank you. Without going into the matter, I would like to know what the Minister's position is about children with visual disabilities generally losing their support overnight, for example. a support teacher who is there firmly and full-time, and the children are very happy about it. What is the Minister's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129163852	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129163853	That depends entirely on what is being replaced. And that is why this is a rather special way of discussing politics, because I think I have actually said clearly that I would like to have calm and regularity. And that means that if it's something about you picking it up every three months, as I can hear that you seem to be doing, then it doesn't work at all, I think. For what? So do we expect a baby to build a new relationship every three months, or what the hell is the point of it? But if what is at issue is that you have planned for incredibly good time that at this point you are going to have something that is a different kind of support and that is better for the child at that age, because it is another type of pedagogy that is needed when the child is no longer 3 years old, but is 5 years old, then it is something quite different. So we're gonna have to take things apart a little bit. In one situation, this is a huge problem and we should not. And in the second situation, there can be serious reasons for doing so in the way we do and for everyone else's satisfaction.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129163946	Then we thank Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen and go back to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129163950	I know that the Socialists have a Prime Minister who would like to decorate himself as the Prime Minister of the children, and I also hope that the Minister for Children and Education will somehow get to grips with this. I find it problematic that, as we have also described, so much time is spent on it, but I think it is certainly also problematic that a family should be put into that situation, perhaps even almost every three months. Could the Minister finally share his thoughts on how to ensure even better quality in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129164029	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129164029-2	Now there is not all the time in the world to answer, and that is why I really want to say what is perhaps the most important first, namely that I believe that if we are going to improve this and if we are going to be able to deliver on it as a government, one of the most important things is always to have the door open when there is a rapporteur who takes up something like this. I do not want to deal with matters on a case-by-case basis, but how much I would like to continue to be called in the Chamber when a rapporteur finds that there are some issues that may prove to be more cross-cutting, and I believe that this is the case here. So thank you for that. I really believe that this is the best way to ensure that, as a society, we continue to do better. Although it may seem extremely low-practical when you sit and hear it out there, I actually think that's what it takes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129164107	Then we thank Mrs Anni Matthiesen and Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen. And thank you to the Minister for Children and Education. That was the last question at this stage. We move on to question 14 to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and that is by Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129164123	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129164125	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that there may be alien or expatriate centres in Denmark where the conditions for foreigners are such that an international organisation will be able to correct a factual and constructive criticism of the situation and where the Minister subsequently intends to draw conclusions/changes thereof?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129164144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129164145	Thank you for the question. In fact, I fully agree with the questioner that the conditions at exit centres and the accommodation of foreigners are, moreover, an important discussion, and that is also a discussion which the government would very much like to take. I assume that the questioner is particularly concerned with the centres as a result of the recent publication by the Council of Europe's Committee of Experts on Torture of a report on the situation at the Ellebæk Centre of Aliens. The rules on administrative detention fall within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but Aliens' Centre Ellebæk is run by the Department of Criminal Welfare, and the specific conditions at the Centre therefore fall within the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice. However, I can say that it is crucial for me, in relation to the exit centres that we have, that there is a clear picture that, when you are a foreigner at an exit centre, it is because you have been definitively refused asylum or for other reasons have not been legally resident in Denmark and that you have of course to go home. And I have no reason to believe that the conditions at the exit centres are not reasonable, and here I would like to emphasise that exit centres are simply designed for temporary stays. I am well aware that there are some who are staying longer at the centres, and sometimes because they are working against their own repatriation. And the government is therefore also looking at how we can more generally strengthen the entire return effort for foreigners who are not legally resident in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129164301	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard
ParlaMint-DK_20200129164302	Thank you. I am aware that this is formally the responsibility of the Minister for Justice and I am pleased that the Minister for Integration and Foreign Affairs has agreed to reply here today. Because I also think it is quite obvious that this affects the clientele for which the Minister is responsible, and I have to ask two questions. I assume that the minister himself has visited the centre • everything else would be strange • and that means that the committee has also been visiting. So from that point of view, I think it is quite natural that this minister should be here. It is true that the Council of Europe's Committee on Torture was not long ago visiting the Ellebæk Excursion Centre and, as the Minister knows, this committee made a rather disgusting criticism of these conditions. The Minister knows that. They were unsanitary rooms, smelly toilet facilities, damaged wardrobes, uninsulated electrical cables, stacked out of the walls, hollowed walls and overdrawn walls. I have seen it myself, and it is not very pleasant, and I do not think it should be on the one hand. On the other hand, I have to say that it is not those who are employed up there who do. It is actually the inmates who are rude in relation to the way they behave. It might be a little nicer if you pulled yourself together a little bit. That is why I think it is absolutely grotesque that this Committee on Torture refers to it as saying that these conditions are not at all in line with human rights. My business is not really to leave this matter alone, but I think that the government and now, in this case, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration must deal with it. I would like that criticism to be rejected, because I think it is so important, even in relation to those who are employed up there, that they can go out in Denmark and be familiar with their work and that they should not accept the criticism that has actually been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129164454	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129164454-2	Let me start by saying that, of course, I have visited Ellebæk and I would like to say that the people who go to work in that place are doing an excellent job, and they should not be pulling their necks. Because they carry out a very important task in society, and I have only praise for them. I also noticed myself when I visited the place that there was a difference between the standard in the place where the women were staying and the place where the men were staying. And it might also tell us how the place is being treated, not by the employees, but by the inmates. Having said that, I agree with the questioner that this is the last stop before getting out of Denmark. And what may not have been so much of the debate is that it is actually a fairly great success. There are other places in the field of foreigners where we have huge challenges, but Ellebæk is actually a success. It makes sense with the rules that we have, that we can detain people, and the rules have been in place for many years, and I think they are sensible. And when I call it a success, it is because it is for people to go out, and actually there are quite a lot of those who are at Ellebæk who do. So my bottom line is that we have good rules and good legislation and that we have some employees who are lifting a lot of work. Of course, we listen to criticism, but we do not necessarily address everything that is being said by international organisations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129164613	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129164614	No, but then I just think it should be very bombastically rejected, and that is really my business. I feel very, very strongly pricked when I hear that the staff are being compared to prison staff in German concentration camps and accused of racism and violence, and I just do not think it can stand alone, and that is actually why I have raised these issues. Because I also feel responsible as a politician for the fact that the staff who work incredibly hard, maybe in reality not under the very best conditions, but they have assumed it and are very responsible I have been there twice, and I have experienced it both times: a very responsible staff should, frankly, put up with it. There I just have to say to the government that I lack a clear rejection of the report that has come from the Council of Europe's torture committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129164716	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129164716-2	I know that the Minister for Justice will respond to the specific criticisms about the situation at Ellebæk, and that is because it is the Department of Criminal Welfare that is running the place, and it is therefore the Minister for Justice's responsibility to respond to those criticisms. However, I agree entirely with the questioner that it is unacceptable that in a debate criticism should be made and comparisons made with situations we saw in Germany in the 1930s and 1940s. I think it is devastating for the foreign policy debate, and I am actually glad that the questioner takes it up and does not just leave it under the bridge and so on to the next question. Because there are people out there in the real world who have to put their backs on this criticism and who, of course, have no opportunity to speak out in the same way as you and I have. So I actually think it's quite relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129164802	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129164802-2	Exactly, and I think it is also a very, very big problem that the other party has not been heard at all. You've just come out with this criticism, and the poor man, the President, Hans Wolff, has been very shocked. I really think it is grotesque if he works with the conditions he should be working with around the world, what you do in relation to the Council of Europe's torture committee is that he can then come to little Denmark and speak in that way. It is deeply offensive and they have now been given three months to rectify matters, and otherwise they will move on to the Court of Human Rights. I mean, there's something in there alone, and what is it? The Minister can then continue to refer to the Minister for Justice, but to me it doesn't matter. It is the government as such that has the overall responsibility, and I really do miss the fact that it is being hard, rough and brutally said that we simply will not accept it finished! Because it's got nothing on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129164902	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129164903	Denmark is part of the Council of Europe, and that also means that we can get visits from these committees who write reports. I feel that I think it is important that eyes can come from outside and evaluate how you think things are going in Denmark and whether we are now living up to the rules. It's perfectly legitimate. We also have to stick to the fact that it is in Denmark that decisions are taken. Although there is criticism from the outside and we of course respond to that criticism, and it will be the Minister of Justice who responds to the criticism • the authority to make decisions here. That is absolutely crucial. Then, of course, it is true that it is the government's joint responsibility to get the answer to that criticism, and that will come. It's just not gonna be with me as a sender.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129164942	Thank you. That was the end of question 14. The next question is also put to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration by Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129164950	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129164951	Thank you. Will the Minister be able to accept as the responsible minister for foreigners' stay in Denmark if an international organisation criticises the situation at one or more of Denmark's alien and exit centres without the Minister complying with one or more of these criticisms?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129165008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129165009	Thank you for the question. This follows on from the previous question which has been raised, so I would also like to point out, in relation to this question, that as Minister for Foreign Affairs, I can only reply on the exit centres. That is why I would like to reiterate that the exit centres and the whole question of return are a very important issue for the government. As a minister in this area, I am very aware that there are some players who are critical of, among others, the situation. The exit centres, as you know, have also decided to change some of the framework for the children accommodated at the Excursion Centre Sjælsmark. We did this because we in the government wanted some changes for the children at the centers. But that doesn't change the fact that the government wants more foreigners without legal residence to travel home • we currently have about 1,100 in the posting position • and that's also why the government is now looking at how we can strengthen the return effort for foreigners who have no legal residence in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129165103	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129165104	Yes, but I'm not asking about Soulsmark. I can do that on other occasions. Now it's still about Ellebæk and this report that's come. I have to say that I can feel myself getting angry, and I think I have the right to stay. I would like to convey my anger to the Minister, who can also get upset that we have to put up with this sort of thing at all. So, the chairman of the Council of Europe's Committee on Torture says: 'If they do not follow our recommendations, there is a possibility that the matter will be taken up by the European Court of Human Rights, with which we work closely. If it does, they will look into our observations and assess whether conditions respect human rights or whether Denmark should be judged. To that, I just have to say, does he just say it because he wants to be something? He's gotta have his mission, too. I hope so. But whether it is for the reason that he says it is there, and what remains is that it may make it a little more difficult for those employed at Ellebæk to deal with the people whom the Minister rightly says must go home. 'Cause it's not like they're just supposed to be there. In fact, they are placed there for the purpose of returning home. That's what they're supposed to do. They're not supposed to be in Denmark. So I miss whether the Minister can imagine that this case goes to the European Court of Human Rights and that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration or the Minister for Justice and the Government as such will then have to stand up for the residents, for whom the Minister is responsible, actually staying at a centre which we can actually be familiar with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129165247	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129165248	It would really surprise me if Denmark were to get a verdict against itself in this area. So I do not take the view that it is likely that we will get a verdict against us. I also think it should be borne in mind that in many other European countries, when you are refused asylum, you just know that you have to leave, but there are no authorities doing anything about it. In Denmark we actually assume the responsibility of having exit centres and residence and reporting obligations, and we have a place like Ellebæk. After all, it's all about us not wanting people to just sleep under the bridges and pitch tents, and that we get an illegal underclass in Denmark. I think the Danish way of dealing with it is far more humane and far more decent than you see in some other European countries, without mentioning names, where the police regularly clear huge camps with people who have been denied asylum and are illegally staying in the country. It may well be that they are not at a center and that it is therefore harder to go around and control the conditions, but isn't it really a little more humane that people get a bed and three meals than that they have to live under the bridges? That is why I will insist that the system we have built up in Denmark for a few years, with exit centres, with residence and reporting obligations and with a little more control over it than in other countries, is also much more humane. It is a political discussion that I would like to enter with open foreheads.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129165401	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129165402	That is absolutely correct. Now that is being said here in the Parliamentary Chamber, and I could almost actually call on the Minister to make a transcript of it and then send it to the chairman of this torture committee and say: we simply will not put up with it precisely because we treat people humanely in Denmark; start to deal with those countries where there are completely inhuman conditions, which no one can be aware of at all. That is why I must say that we can easily be familiar with our centres. They are aimed at the people who sit there leaving Denmark. It is not for anyone to be granted asylum; it is not for anyone to be integrated; it is not for anyone to stay here and they have absolutely tolerable conditions. So what I still think needs to be made absolutely clear is that because you get no smoking a cigarette, it has nothing to do with torture or inhumanity. You get no smoking a cigarette in some situation where it is not good for you to do so, and you have also tried to pull the wires out of the wall to light that cigarette because you cannot have matches on the spot. So if we can just get some balance in this, I think my question will have an effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129165517	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129165518	After all, political change is driven by indignation. Not by cold technical calculations, but by feeling something is unfair, and I can tell from the questioner that she is. I would also like to reveal that when I got that report and read the subsequent coverage of the report and perhaps also followed the discussion on social media, I could also feel that there were feelings rumbling in my stomach. For both I myself as responsible for the exit centres, but also I am quite sure that the Minister of Justice, who is responsible for the criminal services, will take pride in the fact that what we are doing is in order. I do not think Denmark has anything to be ashamed of. Now there is a procedure for the Minister of Justice to reply formally, and I am quite sure he will, and I am also looking forward to reading what he is going to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129165605	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129165606	Thank you. Well then, I know what to do next Wednesday, and then the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration can greet his colleague, the Minister for Justice, and say that the question that will come next Wednesday will not become the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, but the Minister for Justice. And there I would ask him to withdraw this report clearly and clearly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129165632	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129165633	I'd say that if I bump into the Attorney General. I dare not guarantee that he will have his answer ready for the Council of Europe as early as next Wednesday. But at least the positions are in place, and I hope that the questioner will have a good debate with the Minister for Justice about them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129165648	We thank Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and move on to the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. That's by Mr. Keating. Morten Dahlin, Left, and there's a co-questioner, Sophie Løhde, Left, on this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129165701	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129165703	Does the Minister agree that the establishment of a reception centre outside Europe was and is the whole focus of the government's promise of a new asylum system?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129165713	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129165714	Thank you for the question. It is an essential ambition of the government to promote a fairer and more humane asylum system in Europe, a fairer system than what we see today. For our view is that the current asylum system has failed. It's not durable. The government wants an asylum system in which the number of spontaneous asylum seekers is significantly reduced, preferably down to zero, where much fewer people die in the Mediterranean and are subjected to attacks on migration routes, where we have significantly better protection for more refugees in the neighbourhood and along the routes, and where access to the EU is controlled by EU countries under orderly conditions. It is best for our own society, and it is also best for the refugees. This is a complex and comprehensive project, which requires a broad range of solutions if we are to achieve the full goal of reorganising the current asylum system. The establishment of a reception centre in a third country is a very important element of those ambitions. There hasn't been a comma change in that. This is, of course, one of the solutions that we believe could have a great impact when it comes to achieving a significant reduction in the number of spontaneous asylum seekers, thereby breaking the incentive to take the dangerous journey towards Europe. At the same time, we can put an end to the cynical business model of traffickers. You shouldn't underestimate how much money there is in this. At the same time, reducing the number of spontaneous asylum seekers is one of the essential prerequisites for real restructuring of the asylum system. Because, with fewer spontaneous asylum seekers, we are freeing up many more resources that we can use to help more refugees better in the neighbourhood. It is in fact already in progress and has been so for some years. A reduction in the number of spontaneous asylum seekers will also help the European authorities to concentrate on the integration of the many refugees already protected in Europe. There is therefore every reason to pursue the idea of a reception centre harshly, and we will work hard to achieve a model that can also be realised. And every step in that direction is positive and something we will work for.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129165913	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129165915	Thank you to the Minister for his reply, and thank you to the Minister for the reading of all the excellent things that would be done if spontaneous asylum were not sought any more. The Minister mentions a lot of things he wants and hopes and believes, and I do not think anyone can disagree with the Minister in those considerations. I guess that's why the Social Democratic Party made a great play before the elections. They even chose to call it realistic. The minister sat on national television only the day before yesterday and said that since he became a minister, he has become more optimistic and it is at the same time that the minister recognises that not a single country has shown itself willing to build such a reception centre with the minister. Then the Minister could not tell Parliament in all his wisdom today what it is quite concrete that the Minister has become more optimistic than when the Minister was not a minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170016	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170017	Yes, I can, because I am I think I am saying that in the distance, and I have said it to the newspapers, and I have said it on consultation ■ I have said it many times. For my own experience is that the prerequisite for political change is a common understanding that the existing one does not work. And there it is my own experience of the discussions I have had with governments and ministers from governments in other countries that this understanding goes deeper, is broader and flees more with the views of the Danish Government than I had imagined. It may
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170055	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170056	Okay, just so I understand it correctly: what the Minister is basing his optimism on is that the understanding of other countries goes deeper than the Minister had thought before he became minister. And despite the fact that France has said no to this model, Germany has said no to this model, the EU Commissioner for Refugees has said no to this model, the United Nations has said no to this model. Who really has moved forward so that the Minister has become more optimistic about this and thinks it can be done? Remember that the minister before the election himself called it realistic. Who is it that has moved? What exactly is it that makes the Minister still think this is realistic?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170136	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170137	If asylum procedures are to be established outside Europe's borders, it must be possible to do so legally, practically, economically and politically. When I say that I think it can be realized, it is because if you go through it, I think it can be realized. That's an option. I see no legal or economic obstacles. What I see is a hard piece of political work that we are I probably had no idea that it was established after six months, but we are in the process, and when I am optimistic, it is because when I discuss it with others, I have both an experience that the analysis is very similar, but also that the common desire to gain control over who is staying in Europe is the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170225	Thank you. Then it is co-questioner Mrs Sophie Løhde, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170231	Thank you. It is of course interesting that until 21 January, in other words very recently, the Minister had only had sad meetings which had not brought the Minister closer to this realistic proposal, which everyone else calls unrealistic. What is it that makes the Minister suddenly turn on a plate in the Deadline and in the Parliamentary Chamber and is now optimistic? What are some countries that have expressed that they can actually see themselves in this project and that have made the Minister optimistic?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170310	I haven't said anywhere that I've only had sad meetings. I have said in a consultation here in the Folketing that some meetings I come from are positive because I have an experience of: Okay, here we move forward, and here perhaps there could be areas of cooperation that might be interesting. It could, for example, be done. be associated with the newly acceded Austrian Government. It could also be with the Norwegian Government. Then there have also been other meetings, for example. a meeting with the Swedish Commissioner, in which she says very clearly that I should not expect a reception centre to be part of a forthcoming Commission proposal. I might not have expected that either, but I guess it's an honest chat that you come out and say: okay, at this point we're not 100 percent. Agreed. But I guess it's straight off the road: sometimes you feel it's a step forward, sometimes it's not a step forward. But I guess that's honest talk. That's politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170405	Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170406	After all, it is hardly in Austria or Sweden that an exit centre should be set up, since the social democracy prior to the elections promised that if you just voted for them, an exit centre would be established outside the European Union, in other words in some secret African country. It is the Minister who has said in a consultation: it has been sad meetings that have not brought me closer to the ambitions we have. Now the Minister is optimistic. That is why I just ask: what are some countries outside the European Union that are positive about having a reception centre located in their backyard? Nobody's said yes to this. Everyone's turned their thumbs down.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170442	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170442-2	I would point out that the quotation to which the questioner refers from that consultation is only half of a message, namely that sometimes there is work and meetings that make me more optimistic and that sometimes there have been meetings where I do not feel we are taking a step forward. But that's politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170503	Then we go back to sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170508	We can therefore see that the Minister has had positive meetings with Austria and Norway. Since the Minister is now very specific in relation to which countries in Europe he has had positive meetings with, can the Minister not mention just one country or whether there is a country with which the Minister has had positive meetings in relation to actually housing this reception centre? Is there such a country?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170536	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170536-2	That is correct: I do not envisage the establishment of a reception centre in Norway or Austria. For the whole scam is that asylum procedures should be carried out outside Europe's borders. Otherwise, we have not come a step closer to what I would see as a real solution to the problem. I do not want to mention specific countries, but I can say that we are in dialogue with countries outside Europe, and I think it is natural to address the countries along the migration routes. However, it would not be beneficial for the process of drawing closer to a new asylum system if I were to stand in this Chamber and name specific countries. However, our ambition is to be able to strengthen cooperation to deal with migratory flows with some of the countries which are transit countries and which are along the routes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170620	Thank you. Question 16 is over. The next question is also put to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration by Mr. Morten Dahlin, Left. And there is also a questioner on this issue, Mrs Sophie Løhde from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170629	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170635	Does the Minister consider that it is in any way realistic to find a country that will house a reception centre outside the European Union during this parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170642	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170644	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by stating one thing: yes, the government believes that our ambitions can be realised. If we didn't mean it, we wouldn't be working on this objective. The ambition of a reception centre is an important element and it was an important element in the social democracy's policy on foreigners from 2018, which, together with the 2019 understanding paper, forms the basis of government policy in this area. We are firmly behind this. We are, of course, aware that we cannot realise the ambition to move asylum treatment to a safe third country without it giving itself too. Therefore, during this parliamentary term, we must work hard to find a good model for a reception centre scheme. It is a work in itself and to find relevant partners with whom we can work to realise the ambition. I fully recognise that this is not an easy task, on the contrary, but it does not prevent the government from setting an ambitious objective. Just because something is difficult doesn't mean that we shouldn't put all the effort into trying to succeed with it. That work is under way, and it has actually been for a long time. It was set in motion shortly after the parliamentary elections. We have officials in both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who spend every day on this task, also on all the other solutions and actions that the government believes can bring us closer to a fairer and more humane asylum system. But you don't walk away from not having a reception center one day and then having one the next day. It takes patience and hard work, and that is where we are standing right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170809	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170810	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I just have to say that the Minister is probably the only one left who thinks it is realistic. All the other players have said that they do not consider it realistic. So my question is quite simple and basic: wouldn't the Minister just confirm here today that not a single country has reported back positively to the Minister that they are ready to house such a reception centre?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170838	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170839	Well, it doesn't work that way. We are in dialogue with countries bordering on Europe to deal with migratory flows. I myself believe that if we strengthen cooperation and build confidence with regard to some of those countries, there will be an opportunity for us to deal with more than just, for example. border controls or strengthening their authorities. The ambition is, of course, that out of such cooperation there can also be an idea of moving asylum cases outside Europe's borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170914	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170914-2	I would like to thank the Minister for a rather revealing answer. Because what the Minister is saying is, I think. And the Minister is allowed to believe and hope everything he wants, but what the Minister does not really mention in his reply is that there is not a single country that has reported positively on housing this reception centre, which is the whole focal point of social democracy policy. The Minister would not mention any specific country before, but can the Minister just answer how many countries the Minister has asked?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170943	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129170944	We're not even there yet. It's been six months since the parliamentary elections. We are learning more about how to bring this sort of thing together in practical and legal terms, and we are in the process of establishing stronger cooperation with other European countries in the hope of finding partners. We are in the process of shaping the European process. We hope that there will soon be a new asylum initiative from the Commission and we are in the process of strengthening cooperation and building confidence in the transit countries along the migration routes. Of all this, we hope and believe that it is realistic and that it will be possible to move asylum procedures outside Europe's borders. But that's not where we are now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171026	Then we move on to co-question Mrs Sophie Løhde, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171028	Thank you for that, President. We have to understand here that it takes patience. Everything that was presented by the Social Democrats before the elections as realistic is now something that requires patience. Perhaps you should have said to the Danes: Dear friends, it may not be really easy. It is not very realistic, but we promise to work for it. But that's the way things are. The Social Democrats were prepared to say anything in order to sit in the back seat of a ministerial car. Since not a single country has signed up positively, it is of course thought-provoking that last week the Prime Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, had what we have to call a different view of the prospect of setting up a reception centre outside the European Union. And that is why I just wanted to hear: was it the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration who was right, or was it the Prime Minister who was right? Those were two very different interpretations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171126	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171127	At no time have we concealed the fact that this is difficult, and when we appeal to patience, I would also like to appeal for a little support for the foreign policy that the government is pursuing in the ambition of setting up a reception centre to receive broad support in the Assembly Hall. By the way, there is no difference between what the Prime Minister has said and what I have said. We're working hard to set up a reception center. We have said this ever since we presented our proposal in February 2018, and we are working on it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171200	Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171201	So the Minister believes that what the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration was quoted for in Berlingske in the article I think the Minister can recall, and what the Prime Minister then said from the Speaker's Chair of the Danish Parliament did not fight in different directions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171216	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171217	Yeah. What is the basis for both what the Prime Minister is saying and what I am saying is that we are working to establish a reception centre because we think it would be fair to move asylum procedures out of Europe. That's how we can help more people. That's how we can help more. There's no hocus pocus in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171234	Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171238	What is surprising here is that less than a year ago, the Minister, whom I really regard as a quite honest and sympathetic man, could stand up and present an immigration proposal and even have the nerve to call it justice and realistic and give the Danes the belief that if you voted for the Social Democrats, you would have a completely new and humane refugee and asylum system where a reception centre would be set up in a country outside the European Union. Now the Minister has become a minister, and then everything is very, very difficult. That is why I would just like to end with an open question, and I hope the Minister will answer frankly: can the Minister not understand that if there are some Danes out there and are just a little disappointed with the Socialists and the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171323	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171324	On the contrary. If some have voted for the Social Democracy because they want asylum policy to be changed and a reception centre to be set up, then they must be satisfied, because that is actually one of the things we are spending a great deal of resources on. We're working hard to get this thing in place. By the way, it is two years since we presented the foreign initiative. I know who I am. I know I've had 100 or 200 interviews about this. I have repeated myself over and over again, and I have always said: it is difficult to realize this because it is difficult. If that had been impossible, we would not have presented it. We consider this to be realistic. That is why we have said that we will implement it. Now we have to see how long it will take, how broad support there can be in the Folketing, how much money it will cost, how many legal problems we run into. But we are presenting it because we believe it can be realised.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171410	Thank you. That is the end of Question 17. We go to the next question and it is still gone to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, but here we swap roles, so now it is Mrs Sophie Løhde, the Left who is asking, and Mr. Morten Dahlin, there's a co-questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171428	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171430	Thank you, President. I read out the question: Does the Minister think that the social democratic aliens' initiative on a fair and realistic foreign policy made it sufficiently clear that it is actually quite unrealistic to have a country outside the European Union house a reception centre?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171446	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by stating that I do not buy the premise that the ambition to set up a reception centre in a third country outside the European Union is unrealistic. That is why I do not think it should be included in any programme either. I mean, there's realism in the idea. That is why we are working so hard to realise it. It's a difficult task. I'm happy to admit that. I have done so a hundred times before, and we have never claimed that it would be easy, but it should not make us change course or lower our ambitions just because it is difficult, on the contrary I would say. We are in the process and we are putting every effort into creating a new asylum system so that we can replace the inhumane and unjust system that exists today with another system based on orderly and humane conditions. We assume, then, that there will be broad support for this in the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171532	Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171533	After all, this is not about whether a reception centre outside the EU is a good idea. It is about the Social Democracy having gone to elections on something, has promised the Danes something that you clearly cannot deliver on. Everyone has said no, no one believes in you. Now that you've given your playout the headline "Righteous and realistic," I get the idea that you might have forgotten a "U." So, fair and fair had been a more honest response from the Social Democratic Party. In the proposal, which is also 44 pages, all kinds of different proposals were made and, it must be understood, the immigration policy which the Socialist Government wants to implement. Can we not just get a list of this, since the Minister is so well versed in the proposal on which he has probably also been a writer: what parts of that proposal, i.e. the content of that proposal, has the government actually been implemented here more than six months after the elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171627	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171629	I can't remember exactly how many suggestions there are in that proposal. But I remember at one point we made an inventory of it and found that a pretty large part of it was actually already realized when we did that count, for example. that you cannot be married to a exposed residential area. Following the parliamentary elections, my colleague, the Minister for Education, has also taken initiatives to get the students mixed in a way so that we do not get these ethnically divided high schools. In this way, I am actually quite satisfied so far with how we have succeeded in implementing the proposals contained in this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171709	Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171710	In other words, the Socialist Minister is pleased that the Left Government did not talk but actually implemented some of the initiatives that were then in play. I ask quite specifically, because there are also all kinds of things that have not been implemented: can the Minister not mention exactly how many concrete proposals there are now, after the elections, more than six months after the elections, in fact, also being implemented? That's gotta be easy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171732	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171733	They spread across many different ministerial areas, so I have no count of that. And it is also true that many of the proposals were implemented before the elections with the votes of the Social Democrats. I myself took part in some of the negotiations and also raised some of the issues, and I think there has been quite a good cooperation on, for example. What I mentioned earlier when we made the rules on marriage reunification, where we made a reform of those rules. There it became part of the agreement that one should not be able to be brought together in the family of any of the residential areas on the lists of residential areas which already face major integrational challenges. I thought that was pretty good myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171807	Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171813	Well, I just need to understand this. The Minister, who just a few minutes ago said that he was ready for what he had said and that he had not said that it was easy, simply has no idea how many initiatives in the field of foreigners from the electoral programme put forward by the Minister before the elections actually carried out by the Minister. I think that's a little weird. And the truth is perhaps enough that the Minister knows that, but that he just does not want to say it because it is very few, just as the Minister did not want to say just now that there is not a single country that has been positive in terms of creating a reception centre. When, then, does the Minister consider it realistic to implement more of the proposals contained in the immigration initiative, including the creation of a reception centre? When does the Minister think this is realistic?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171900	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171901	When I say that I do not have a census, it is because it spreads across many different ministries. If the Left would like to have a census of it, then I would urge you to put a written question. I can't just pull that out of my hat, and I can't read that from the question I've been asked today. But all that is in this proposal is our policy, and we also have ambitions to achieve that. It is not certain that this will happen before the summer break. We're going to realize it in the order we think is right. There is nothing that we are running from today at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171933	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171934	That is how the Minister avoided answering the question. That is why I am just trying to put it again: when does the Minister think it is realistic to set up a reception centre in a country outside the European Union? When?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171947	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129171948	It is not possible to set a date, because that is something that has to be agreed with another country. It makes no sense to set a date on when such a thing can happen, because it takes two to a tango. We're working on making it happen, and if you ask me, it's better today than tomorrow. But it's not that easy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172007	Then it's Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172010	I would say that it is rather strange that the country's Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has no idea how many proposals from the Social Democratic Foreign Affairs Committee which we must understand the Minister has also co-authored the government has actually carried out here six months after the election of the Parliament. Okay, well, the minister doesn't know. Can the Minister not just mention three specific initiatives carried out in the minister's own area of responsibility, six months after the elections, and which were part of that proposal? It must be simple, it does not concern all the other ministers. What happened? Three concrete examples of the minister's own area, which was part of the project.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172055	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172056	I would repeat that if the Left wants to count on how many things have been done, the party is very welcome to ask a question, and then we will answer it. But I can't pull that out of my hat right now. But when, for example, we get there. in our immigration initiative, there is a need for tougher penalties for having illegal labour employed, so yes: it is in our understanding paper, it has become part of the Finance Act, there is a bill on the way, and we also hope that the Left can support that amendment. This is a concrete point which is now being implemented in the case of foreigners.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172128	The next question has been put to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and this has been asked by Mrs Sophie Løhde, Left. There's also a co-questioner, sir. Morten Dahlin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172139	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172142	Thank you for that, President. I read it out: now that the Prime Minister has said that the Social Democracy is willing to go Danish alone in establishing a reception centre outside Europe, does the Minister not think that the government should immediately engage in bilateral discussions with countries outside the EU, regardless of the discussions that the government may have in parallel with EU countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172202	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172203	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by saying that I fully agree that the work on implementing a reception centre system in a third country requires us to work in two ways. On the one hand, we will do everything we can to discuss and promote the idea of a reception centre when we meet in Brussels, in order to involve both other Member States of the European Union, the Commission and the relevant agencies working on the refugee issue at European level. However, as I have already said, I do not believe that it is a either-or-need when we talk about the EU's European asylum agenda or pursuing the more bilateral track with other countries. Therefore, in parallel, the government will also pursue discussions with relevant third countries in promoting the ambition of setting up a reception centre. We must look at all the steps and all the relevant partners that can lead us in the right direction. It is not a job that can be completed overnight. First of all, it is a question of establishing contact and cooperation with the relevant countries, and then it is a question of starting up concrete cooperation, for example. to cooperate in building asylum capacity or border capacity by the authorities of the countries concerned, or to cooperate in other specific areas where we have common interests that can provide a basis for an equal partnership. In particular, the latter, I think, is important and overlooked in the debate. In my view, any of these specific cooperations that are being concluded along the way is important. But overall it is a task that can and will take time. It takes patience, but it is a task with which we will do everything we can to succeed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172331	Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172333	I think I understood the Minister's reply in such a way that the Minister was already in the process. That is fine, but when everyone has said 'no' and nobody thinks it is realistic, and everyone has turned their thumbs down, what progress has the Minister actually made, if any? Try to mention three concrete examples of progress with non-EU countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172401	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172402	I am pleased that it has been decided that the common European border should be better guarded. That decision has been made. Denmark is going to participate in it, and we come to with people from here and with the equipment from here to participate in the guarding of the border. This is a concrete step. Then I am glad that there is a common recognition in Europe of the pressure on which, for example, there is pressure. Greece, with the accumulation of migrants and asylum seekers on Greek islands, and that Danish authorities can support Greek authorities and the EU agency in handling it. Then we are also in dialogue with third countries outside Europe about the possibility that Denmark can use the economy, resources, experience from this to help them build up capacity. And as soon as these agreements have been made, I would very much like to tell you about them. Perhaps those agreements can bring us closer to the fact that we can further strengthen cooperation. Perhaps those agreements will only be about the concrete and specific issues that it will be about. It will be different from agreement to agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172511	Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172512	Thank you. I think that's what you have to call a non-answer. There was certainly not a single example of reception centres. So I'm not asking about border guarding and everything else. I ask: can the Minister not only mention three concrete examples of progress, concrete progress made by the Minister with countries outside the European Union, which very, very secretly should be positive about receiving an exit centre, to which everyone has said no?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172542	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172543	In fact, I think that this is the wrong approach from the questioners, because the whole prerequisite for establishing a reception centre is that there is another country that can also see an interest in getting more control over migration. The interest starts with the fact that the other countries actually think that we in Europe on our side of the Mediterranean will not just wipe them out, but that we will deal with migration in equal cooperation. This starts with the start of very concrete projects that can build trust, and that is why we are in dialogue with countries outside Europe's borders about, for example. the capacity building of their authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172624	Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172627	Thank you. Now the Minister had difficulty mentioning three things that the Social Democratic Party has carried out in the field of foreigners. I can help the Minister: the Minister has relaxed the requirements for citizenship. The minister has made it easier for refugees to stay in Denmark instead of going home and help rebuild their homeland. And the Minister has raised the benefits and targeted them for unemployed immigrants and refugees. Of course, these are not the things that appear in the Social Democrat electoral document, which is actually almost the opposite, but they have been implemented anyway. Now Mrs Sophie Løhde asked for three concrete examples of the Minister's progress in establishing a reception centre. And Mrs Sophie Løhde did so because the Minister has said that he is more optimistic now than he was before he became a minister. At the same time, however, the Minister said in a conciliation meeting here in Parliament that not a single country has been in favour. I am not as tough as Mrs Sophie Løhde, so could the Minister not just mention one concrete example of progress in dialogue with a country outside the European Union to set up a reception centre?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172734	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172735	But if we are to begin to put forward what this government has done in the field of foreign policy, I can say that we, for example, are going to do. I have tightened up the agricultural sector, where I think there were too lenient rules, by the way, a tightening-up which the Left could not support. Then, with a unanimous Parliament in the back, we have given the opportunity for girls like Mint to apply for a residence permit again. And then we have tightened up with foreign fighters, we have created the possibility that we could administratively deprive them of their citizenship. But that is not what the question is about neither what I am talking about nor what the questioner is asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172806	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172807	Yes, it is true that this government has put forward the legislative proposals implementing the political agreements made by the previous government on foreign fighters. It is also true that this government has done all it can to keep working Argentines working holiday out of Denmark, but in return has said yes to unemployed Afghans. And that's how there are different angles to this. I just ask again because the Minister did not reply: the Minister is eh, oh and uh so optimistic, so could the Minister not give one concrete example of a progress in dialogue with a country outside the EU to set up a reception centre?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172839	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172840	I can reassure the questioner that the dialogue we have had with countries outside Europe has been positive; these have been positive meetings. I hope that this can be a step towards strengthening cooperation in tackling migration. And as soon as that cooperation materialises itself in actual agreements, real political initiatives, the questioner can be quite calm that I will not only tell the questioner, but also the rest of the Danish public.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172912	Then it is Mrs Sophie Løhde for the last question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172916	It has to be said that the Minister is a little under pressure when the only attempt at concrete examples is that the Minister tells us that he has held some meetings with someone. So, you spend quite a bit of your time as a minister at meetings, and most of the people you meet with are positive. Believe me, I've tried that, too. I think that speaks for itself. I would just like to hear the government say that before the elections, people were also prepared to go alone: when will this happen? When is the government going alone in this area, when apparently not a single step forward has been made?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172951	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129172952	Well, we're not going to wait for another trail to collapse. We're working on everything we have. I must also note that, although there has been talk for many years of establishing asylum procedures outside Europe's borders, it was also the case that when we entered the offices and opened drawers and cabinets, there was nothing as trivial as a legal assessment of how this could be done. That is what we are doing now; it is the first step: what is really the law in this? How can we link up a reception centre within the framework of Danish legislation, within the framework of the Danish constitution and within the framework of the conventions that we have acceded to? And already there we are longer than any other government that has talked a lot about this but has not acted on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129173032	Thank you. The question is closed and we thank the authors and the Minister for this. We move on to the next question, that is No. 20, and this is for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration from Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129173045	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129173048	Thank you. Does the Minister continue to believe that it is realistic to set up a reception centre outside Europe with the EU when the EU's own refugee commissioner, Ylva Johansson, just last December said that I think this is an unrealistic idea. There are a lot of questions and legal implications that I cannot see a practical solution to today, after just a meeting with the Minister about the possibility of a reception centre outside Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129173117	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129173118	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by stressing that we are working on this because we believe it can be realised. The government would like the reception centre scheme to be established in cooperation with other EU countries, but it has never been a prerequisite for pursuing the ambition that we had unilateral support from all other EU countries. It will take some time before Sweden and Hungary, for example. agrees with all the details of asylum policy. In December, as you know, I was given the opportunity to speak to the new European Commissioner for Migration, who is called Ylva Johansson, when she visited Copenhagen as part of a capital tour of the EU countries. The Commissioner said at the meeting that the establishment of a reception centre outside Europe is not one of the elements the Commission will be looking at in the context of the EU's future asylum and migration pact. Nevertheless, I was left with the impression that we want basically the same thing as the Commission, namely control over migration to Europe. I do not believe that the European Commission will realise all the ideas that we put forward in the Social Democratic aliens' initiative, but I believe that, through EU cooperation, we can realise some of the components of the government's thinking of a new asylum system. In fact, I am quite convinced of this, because both my talks with the Commissioner and with other colleagues in the Council meetings in which I took part have gradually left me with the impression that there is a desire for something to be done on the asylum agenda. This may not mean that there is a willingness on the part of the European Union and all the Member States to establish a reception centre precisely, but my clear impression is that there is a willingness to look at many of the other components that are also in government policy. And then, together with like-minded countries and through enhanced cooperation with third countries, we must work to establish asylum treatment outside the EU's borders. So I do not see it that it is either the EU track or a non-EU track. The way to implement a new asylum system is a combination of everything we can do in Brussels and what we can do in other ways with other countries, both inside and outside Europe, as well as with other actors in the field of migration, such as the European Union. the international organisations, which also play an important role here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129173319	Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129173320	Thank you. Well, the Minister also said earlier here today to Mr. Morten Dahlin, that the Minister is much, I think, even more optimistic now. But when the EU Commissioner for Refugees has said what the Commissioner has said, what exactly does it give the Minister reason to believe that there is something to be done about getting the European Union into the idea of a reception centre outside Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129173346	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129173347	I believe that if we are to change asylum policy, it is a matter of several different elements, of which the reception centre is an important component. It is acting, for example. also to get more EU countries to reject baseless asylum applications on the border, instead of refugees entering and having normal asylum procedures. It is also about making broadcasting work work better. I believe that the EU countries can work together here, for example. in the area of visas by refusing to issue visas to people from countries that do not want to accept their own citizens. I also believe that it is a question of strengthening the frontline states that are putting the greatest pressure on them, strengthening their asylum authorities and strengthening the asylum authorities in the countries bordering Europe, combating the infrastructure of traffickers in countries bordering Europe, etc. etc. And many of those elements the European Commission would like to work for. We will then be supporting 110%, even if they do not agree with us on what is at stake in the reception centre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129173437	Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129173438	But now it is precisely a reception centre that is being asked today, and the Minister must admit that when the EU's own Commissioner in this area does not believe that the idea of a reception centre outside the EU is feasible, it is not realistic. Should the government not admit to the Danes that they simply did not deliver on what they promised?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129173500	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129173501	What the Social Democrats said before the elections was that we would not commit ourselves to this being realized only if it is done in a pan-European cooperation, because we are simply worried that this agreement can be established at European level. That is why we also said in February 2018 that it is 2 years since we did not want to commit ourselves to it We said that we wanted it to happen in cooperation with other EU countries, but that it was not a requirement, and it is exactly the same position we have now. We're working on the tracks that are possible. Everything we can achieve at EU level, of course, must be done before I mentioned some of these things, but we must not commit ourselves to burying the idea of a reception centre simply because the Commission cannot back it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129173545	Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129173546	Thank you. Well, now that the EU trail is dead, because the Commissioner for Refugees calls it completely unrealistic, I suppose it is time for the declared singularity which the government has set up and which I also hear from the Minister today. So when can we expect the government to start doing this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129173608	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129173609	I would say that I do not regard the European Union's trail as dead to the extent that it is a question of changing asylum policy. In fact, I think that the government is going to get a lot of wind to the ambitions we have on, for example. to reject people at the border or to strengthen the broadcasting work. It is by no means dead, but it is true that we cannot organise our strategies after the Commission's new asylum and migration package could be a proposal for a reception centre, because the message was another when I met the Commissioner. That is also why we are doing everything we can to strengthen cooperation with other EU countries, obviously in the hope that we can be more EU countries working together on these things. Because then I think it will increase the opportunity for it to be implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129173651	Thank you. That concludes the question. Thank you to the questioner. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129173702	The debate is open. The first is the rapporteur of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament. Kasper Sand Kjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129173725	Thank you. After all, our children and young people are our future, and that is why we also need them to make an effort. We need them all to be as talented as they possibly can. I actually believe that all children and young people want to get their skills. There are some things that can be a little bit about having talent or having facilities to be good at something, but by far the most important thing is hard work • that you spend the hours needed to practice, that you immerse yourself. And we must encourage all children and young people to do their very best. We must dare to expect something from each other, for trying is a virtue. And I think we actually agree on that in here. And that is probably why there is such broad support for the legislative proposal, which, of course, we welcome. Because this affects some of the fundamental aspects of our education system, namely that one is judged on one's own performance. When you have made an effort and go to the exam, you do it based on your own performance without cheating. Exam cheating is not a new phenomenon, but we must realise that it has taken a new form. We have seen plenty of examples of how digital opportunities make exam cheating more advanced and how it has become possible simply to run business and structured make money by helping with exam cheating. Aid for a 4th degree in a secondary school course costs 425 DKK.; a 12-figure cost 550 kr. You can also buy help in writing the large written assignments at the end of the third year, and then you have to get the big wallet out: It costs as much as DKK 5,500. DKK 7,950. And that is precisely why the legislative proposal that we are debating today has become necessary, because with the new digital development new opportunities and challenges also follow. In this situation, it has meant that we need an additional tool to protect and ensure the legitimacy of our tests and exams. With the bill here, we are putting an end to the sale of paperwork papers and the possibility of giving other irregular help in carrying out tests or exams. After all, good grades should not be something you can buy, and it should not be possible to do business and make money on our children and young people who have a desire to do well in the education system. After all, this is a business model which in reality violates such basic general social considerations, because it is contrary to everything that our education system is built around, namely that our children and young people are doing their best and are doing their best and being judged on it. We must assess them on the basis of the tasks they do; they must be paid for their work; they must be motivated to immerse themselves and none of it should be possible to make money on. That is why, of course, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129174026	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129174032	Thank you. It is the position of the Left that cheating on exam assignments is unacceptable, and our attitude towards exam cheating does not leave room for interpretation, trivial limits or circle understanding. The purpose of a test or examination is to demonstrate to what extent the examiner meets the objectives and requirements laid down for the subject and the training. Examinations and examinations must therefore ensure objectivity in assessments and be carried out uniformly across training courses and there should be no doubt about this. This objectivity is of benefit to the students; the buyers have the companies, the higher education institutions also, when assessing and comparing the students' personality and potential, even in cases where a character is not in itself adequate, but should and should be supplemented by an interview or a talk with the individual applicant. We must be aware of the opportunities offered by new technologies, and we must also be aware of the places where they are working against our interests, and this is one of them. In the present case, a slightly too entrepreneurial group has set up and marketed a system for ordering written papers etc., as the Social Democrat rapporteur so well explained. It's a business model that counteracts and undermines the goal of our tests and exams. We have to do that. There must be no doubt that it is the examiner himself who has obtained a given test and examination result. We are very pleased with the general support for the legislative proposal of the consultative parties. This is a very good and strong signal, which I hope will also help to give support to enforce this forward-looking. We fully support the bill and we have promised to welcome the Conservatives, who also support the proposal. So thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129174219	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129174229	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party we support L 98. Of course, we think it is important that you cannot make it easy for the students to cheat on the exams, and that is why we naturally think that this issue of offering exams, which you can directly buy in a free market, is wrong and that this is something we must have stopped. But it's just not enough. We shouldn't do exam forms that make it easy to cheat. Fortunately, we have achieved our goal in the field of high school in connection with the SRP tasks, where we have also introduced an oral exam, so that it is not enough to get someone else to write their assignment; one must also be able to vouch for it orally, so it certainly requires a longer manual from another person in order to get a good character. But you can cheat in other areas and it has not been stopped. Of course, this law is fine, and it puts a cork in a place, however, in a place where we had sort of already repaired the ship, because we have introduced this oral test in connection with the SRP. Unfortunately, however, there are many other gaps in the ship that we must have looked at, and I hope that will be the case, because there are so many different possibilities today via the Internet and via various electronic gadgets and dingenots, which make it possible, unfortunately, to cheat on written exams, unless there are some who are harsh. So there is something to come up with that this law does not cover, and I hope, of course, that the Minister will look into this, so that this will not be the only legislative proposal that we will see in this session that will try to do away with cheating. But of course we support the Danish People's Party bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129174430	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see anyone from the Radical Left immediately, so we move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Astrid Carøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129174452	Thank you. In the SF, we also support this proposal to ban the purchase of assignments at school. Of course, students and students should do their own tasks, and companies should not be able to make money from the fact that some students feel pressured to be able to buy themselves for better grades. However, I also think it is important to note some of the comments in the consultations on the underlying problem in relation to the pressure of character that we are experiencing in our education system and that may pressure some of the young people to buy these tasks. Of course they shouldn't, but it's also important for SF to point out that we would also like to look at the underlying problem with this character pressure, for example. by looking at the admission system for higher education and the character system in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129174543	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Jakob Silver Mound. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129174550	Like the previous speaker, I think it is appropriate to make a comment that it is thought-provoking and worrying that such a culture of performance, a pressure of character on pupils and students has developed today that it is possible to create an organised market for the provision of assistance to circumvent the rules governing exams and tests in our education system. We need to do something about the whole issue of pressure of character and performance, but that is not the subject of today's debate, but rather a proposal to impose a sanctioned ban on the provision and marketing of special assignment papers or other illegal aid to examiners. In the Enhedslisten, we are very pleased with the way in which the proposal has been cut so that we direct it to companies and individuals who think it is reasonable or at least it makes them enrich themselves by helping to bypass the rules for tests and exams we have. We note that the proposal does not provide for new sanctions against pupils and students, and we note that the consultation note clearly states that the proposal does not alter the tasks of the training institutions in terms of monitoring the testing. We think it is sensible for us to separate things from each other, so that we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129174737	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to the Alternative's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129174745	Thank you. When I first got acquainted with this problem, I got the coffee in my throat. It was because I saw on television a broadcast about an enterprising young entrepreneur who had systematized the production of exam assignments, so he simply had a network of people who were ready to write exam assignments for others, and then he sold them. And he made money on that. I thought, is this legal? But that's it. But it will no longer be, because of course we are closing that gap, and it is absolutely insane that we have been able to do so. I think it's good to focus the rules on the company, so you can't market that you want to do people's exams for them. So the alternative clearly supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129174840	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the new citizens, Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129174852	This is a proposal for a ban on these companies speculating on selling tasks to schoolchildren and students, i.e. companies that make money out of young people cheating on examinations. Young people can already be punished if they cheat on their exams, but the companies that sell the tasks for the sole purpose of cheating young people are still here. One could certainly have the view that only those who cheat should be punished, and not those companies that have spotted a good opportunity for profit, but in this specific case we do not think it is possible or appropriate. It is morally reprehensible and simply not in order that there are companies that make money selling cheating. So here we set a limit, and here comes the miserable schoolteacher up in me: Children and young people of course have a responsibility not to cheat. That's important to point out. As parents, we also have a responsibility to teach our children and young people that you cannot buy tasks and thereby cheat by not making them yourself, but companies that really speculate on selling cheating, we must stop saying the strict schoolteacher. So we support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129175015	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129175022	Thank you for the floor. My grandfather was an unskilled worker, and my mother became a cand.mag., and of course it was the first in his family. It could be done because my mother had a good sense, but it could also be done because we have an educational system that was and is meritocratic, and that means a system where you are rewarded for what you can, unlike the system that came before you were rewarded for what you were. And there are evil tongues that say "as opposed to the system that has come for where you are rewarded for what you cannot." The meritocratic system is one of the cornerstones of our society. This is one of the things that helps define what a politically liberal society is, and that is why, of course, we support this bill. It is an absolutely necessary defence of the meritocratic system, which lifts both skilled young people like my mother up in the education hierarchy and the job hierarchy, but also does the opposite. And that is why the system is good too, because it lifts unqualified people the other way. So now the unqualified people get a little harder to get up, and in return, the skilled people get a little easier. It is a good thing that this is the case and, of course, we support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129175206	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. Then we give the floor to the Minister for Children and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129175217	I would like to start by saying thank you to those parties and it is all parties that support the bill. Exam cheating is not a new issue, but technological development has made the forms of cheating somewhat more sophisticated or at least different, and there have even been companies that have tried to make a business out of it. That is why, unfortunately, an additional tool has become necessary to safeguard and continue to have legitimacy about tests and exams. With the bill, we introduce a sanctioned ban on offering written assignment papers, including the marketing, dissemination and sale of the replies and other undue assistance in the conduct of examinations or exams. The responsibility is imposed on the provider, marketer, intermediary or seller of the undue assistance and thus provides assistance for the violation of the test and examination rules. Of course, you can still help your children with their homework, because the bill does not criminalise ordinary homework; the proposal is about tests and other major written tasks. I would like to thank you for today's debate and I look forward to any questions during the committee reading and, of course, to future cooperation to ensure that our exams are firm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129175335	There are no brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129175353	The debate is open. And we give the floor first to the Minister for Children and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129175411	First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for tabling the motion for a resolution, because the resolution gives us the opportunity to zoom out a little and discuss the framework we want for our children and for the families of children, also in the light of the financial agreement that has just been concluded and the government's great ambitions for the children. For me and for the government, it is crucial that all children get a good start in life, where each child also meets and joins in a community with other children. It is about the framework we provide to the families of children; whether you basically feel safe in the stomach, when you deliver your children down to the local institution, before you meet at work, and that you get the right support as parents if you need it. On the other hand, the government does not believe that Community funds, that is, the money we pay into the community, should be spent largely on parents walking at home. And that's why I might as well put the cards on the table right away... I don't really think that comes as a surprise to the Danish People's Party... and say that the government cannot support the motion for a resolution on a significant increase in the allowance for caring for its own children. I would like to clarify why and also share my thoughts on the more fundamental aspect of the model proposed in the motion for a resolution. But first a few words about the model itself. The Danish People's Party proposes to set up a working group on a new family policy. But that is to say, in fact, the proposal contains a fairly developed model already: the Danish People's Party wants the resolution to considerably extend the possibility of receiving municipal allowances for caring for one's own children. According to the model proposed, all municipalities must be required to provide all parents with a grant so that parents can leave home in the child's first 4 years • collected up to 6 years instead of having the child rewritten in the local crèche or kindergarten with the other children. The benefit is then proposed to be at the benefit level. Today, as you know, the scheme is voluntary for the municipalities to offer, and the subsidy is somewhat lower per year. child than in the proposed model, and parents can only receive supplements for max. 1 year. I have to say that I opened my eyes somewhat when I first read the resolution. So, if nothing else, it is liberating that it has such great arm movements, but it is basically a different child policy and a different view of educators and nursery schools and, incidentally, also of family and equality than what I thought existed in the Parliament hall now and here. In my opinion, we in Denmark have a very good and solid tradition of good kindergartens, for good day nurseries and for day care, and there we are somehow at the core, because it is extremely valuable for me that our children meet each other, that they relate to each other when they are young. And it happens around with bricks and play in kindergarten and later about reading and discussions in the classroom. Children's communities teach what it means to take care of others. They learn to understand and trust people who may not be similar to them, and we must give them that opportunity in nurseries and kindergartens. Of course, this is related to the fact that there are both enough staff and skilled educators, educational assistants, helpers and day carers to handle both comfort and care and learning and diapers and time for parents to pick up the children and want to hear how things have gone during the day. And it can be said that it is precisely because of the latter that the government, with the Finance Act, has even given a very large boost to kindergartens and nurseries, because it has to ensure that there are just more adults and that is to say educational staff and adults in crèches and kindergartens. Children are the most important thing, and children's communities are crucial for children. But there is something else at stake here too. For it was absolutely central and some of what, moreover, separates Denmark from many other countries, including our neighbouring countries, that we extended our good common welfare institutions to our children. In most other countries, it is extremely expensive if your children are to become part of children's communities when they are young. In some places it is quite impossible, simply because there are no seats for it. In Denmark, since women entered the labour market in the 1960s, we have had good and also in relation to other societies cheap day care institutions throughout the country. The Danish day care centers, day nurseries and kindergartens have thus been a cornerstone, also for the Danish labour market model, where it is still the starting point that both parents go to work and contribute through the tax to our common welfare society. The Danish daily institutions have been a key piece in terms of equality, but are also an essential foundation throughout our welfare. So for those reasons, it is absolutely crucial that we give priority to community money for our children. Do we want to invest in skilled educators and in the Danish tradition of good day care, or do we want to go away from that tradition and instead target the money that more people can go home with their children? It is a perfectly clear political choice, and I think it is in fact liberating when the differences in Danish politics become very clear, and they do so here. Here our choice is very clear: the money that is on the table means that we should go to good, solid day care facilities, crèches and kindergartens, where there are enough educators present, so that our children can have a good and rich children's life and children's community there. The government wants to give priority to welfare. This may not come as a surprise to the authors of the motion for a resolution, which is why we cannot support the extension of the care system for our own children, and so we cannot support the motion for a resolution. Nevertheless, I would like to thank you for bringing the debate up. I think it makes our people's government richer that we can have these debates in Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129180027	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129180031	Thank you. As I understand the Minister's objection, it is not only the financing model that the Minister is opposed to, but also the ideology itself, so that according to the Social Democratic Party it is better for children to be put into an institution than to have an opportunity to live the first few years at home with one of the parents. I just have to say that it is very sloppy, because there is no research to show that. There are a lot of children's researchers who say that this is an experiment that we don't even know where it ends up, and it may be that the high degree of stress and depression among young people today is actually due to this. We do not know whether it is good or bad, and there are a lot of people who think it is bad. Perhaps the money spent on helping families who want to take care of their children will come back by the fact that the children who grow up like this will have better mental and physical health when they grow up. So maybe the money's done really well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129180140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129180141	Obviously, this is a value. We also had the discussion in connection with the agreement on parallel societies, where it occurred to some that we had written in that one had to get to know Danish values already in the crèche. There was such a little laughing about if you had to sit and read the constitution. And think, for me it's incredibly fundamental. Not that you have to read the basic law, but that what is going on in a crèche where children learn to take into account each other across all the differences that exist in a group of children is something that takes place both early and at eye level, and that it is a fundamental education in terms of being part of a community and democracy. Does this mean that everyone should send their children to an institution for the same hours and that you can never imagine that someone can go home with their children? No, of course not. After all, it is a question of saying that, as a starting point, it is important for the Community, even though there may of course be differences. And here I think that, when we have a bag of money we need, we need to use it to strengthen the day institutions and the Community mechanism that exists. I do not believe that it is for us to spend the economy on the other, and certainly not to the extent that the Danish People's Party is proposing here. So I think it is a good thing that the municipalities have the opportunity to choose whether they want one or the other model and that, as a parent, they have the opportunity to choose on or off. The Community's resources, I believe, should be used to build strong, healthy, good, solid nurseries and kindergartens and children's communities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129180303	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129180304	It is not a Danish value to have children in institutions. It may well be that it has become a Danish practice, but I really want to say that it must not be the sort of thing that you go around saying is a Danish value • uh, uh, uh... Children can easily learn to consider themselves, even if they are at home during their early years. What they cannot learn in an institution is to get the close, close bond. None of the educators will die for the individual child, but a mother or a father will. This very, very close relationship, which there can only be between parents and children or people who are very close to each other, you don't get anywhere else. And that's what's at the center here. That is what makes it so important for young children to have the opportunity to connect closely with their families.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129180352	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129180353	Yes, and that is probably why no one is suggesting that all children in Denmark should go to an institution 24 hours a day. I mean, I haven't heard anyone argue that you should go to a place where you shouldn't have that close relationship. On the contrary, it is indeed one of the things on which I think there is relatively broad agreement, and therefore it is also such a little no-brainer to say that it is of course absolutely crucial. That's what's the base of a child. But it's just not the only thing for a child. And that means that if we are to give the child the best conditions for entering the community and society, creating relationships, then we have the value that it is the most important part of democratic education that the child comes out and is part of a community of children.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129180435	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129180437	I would also like to thank you for raising this debate. Family policy is extremely important. I'm getting a little curious about some of what the Minister said. The minister talks a lot about having a good and rich child life and these close fellowships, etc. Does the Minister not think that it is actually the families who are better at making the decision whether to go home with the child in the first few years or whether to send your child to an institution? And must it not therefore also be possible for families who want to adapt in such a way that they have a better chance of doing so than they do today?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129180516	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129180517	First of all, yes. On the other hand, no. Well, it is absolutely up to the family itself to make that priority if you think it is important. Is it something we support with the community's money? We just put a lot of money on the Finance Act to improve crèches and kindergarten. We could have chosen to use them on this proposal instead. That's the way it is with politics. Priority must be given, and we have chosen to give priority to having good nurseries and kindergartens. Does this mean that this is the only right way to adjust? No, that means that this is our priority. In other words, we believe that, as a community and as a community, we should spend the money we have paid into taxes to ensure that there are proper nurseries and kindergartens. That's what it means.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129180559	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129180600	Yes, but does the Minister not also acknowledge that for a great many families of children this is simply not possible because we in Denmark have such enormous tax pressure? It is simply not possible for Danish families of children to adapt in exactly the way they want if they want one to go home and take care of the child for the first few years. Does the Minister not recognise that it is very, very difficult economically for the vast majority of families to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129180624	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129180626	I don't buy that thing about saying, by far, most people. There are a lot of people in Denmark who actually go part-time, I just want to say. So at least for the incredibly large part it is possible to adjust in a different way than by having two full-time positions. And I'm not here to judge the choices you make for your own private economy. I believe that where it is really difficult for people to maintain full-time employment, if they do not have a feeling that there is a proper framework around their children in kindergarten, that is, the number of people going to work. Then you think: Okay, I really, really have to come back early, early today, because there haven't been enough adults. You shouldn't wear that feeling at work. There must be proper frameworks around our children, which is why we have given priority to setting aside extra money for kindergarten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129180706	Then it is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129180708	Thank you. I would like to follow up on what Mrs Mette Thiesen says about the family as the core; as the base of the child's life. So I want to hear from the Minister whether the Minister does not recognise that if the child's base, that is the core there, is well-functioning and safe and safe for the child to be in, then it does not really matter what else is on offer about the child. In that case, there is nothing to replace the loss suffered by the child if the family does not function; if the child does not have the close connection with, among other things, the child. his parents, but also to the family, by the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129180748	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129180749	Yes, I fully acknowledge that it is irreplaceable. There's nothing above it, and there's nothing next door. But I don't understand why it doesn't matter. Perhaps there too the rapporteur himself went a little too far, at least in relation to what I think the rapporteur usually does. Because it doesn't matter what we give a child who has parents who fail; it is actually quite crucial. We can't do it as well as the parents, but we can try and get as close as we possibly can. So it doesn't matter what we do for a child who is left in the custody of the state, either because the parents have passed away or because the parents have really slammed. It is true that we cannot replace it. And it was the case that I heard the question from the rapporteur, namely whether we can replace it. No, we can't. Neither can we. There the parents are absolutely crucial, and for me this is not a question of parents or not parents, but simply a question of having parents who are good and solid, which is the basis for every child. How, then, does the children's community weigh? The children's community is very important in my book.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129180851	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129180852	After all, many parents who have their children at home choose to go to some crèches themselves or in some municipal offers where they can come down and get those very communities of children that the minister thinks are so important. And just to be clear, a teacher can never replace a parent. I hope we agree on that. And then it just seems weird, because there's really a lot of demand for this opportunity, and there's a lot of families saying they want to do this, but they can't give it priority. And that's where we just think it would be nice if they at least got the option. However, because not all municipalities have the offer, not everyone has that option either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129180928	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129180930	I just think it's important to get a hold of it here, that it's a priority. We do not give priority to the Community's money being spent 4-6 years at home with your own children. We prioritize that community money should go to crèches and kindergartens because we believe that the community is important. Will not think that it can ever replace the parents or the relationship with the parents it is essential. We also give priority to primary school, because we also believe that parents are absolutely crucial when children are between 6 and 16 years of age. But the primary school can then provide some teaching that is absolutely crucial for the child and that you cannot get delivered at home in most cases. And then there are some who teach home, so the exceptions are always there. So it is not a judgment, but a question of where we spend money, and that is where we spend it in primary school and, incidentally, in free primary schools and then in day nurseries and kindergartens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129181018	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. We move on to the Social Democrats' rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Kasper Sand Kjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129181035	Thank you. In the social democracy we see our common welfare institutions as the key to giving all children a better future. This will ensure that they get a good start to life, that from an early age they meet each other and become part of the community. This is where we can create pattern breakers, but this is also where we can break the patterns. That is why I would just like to say a big thank you to the Danish People's Party for bringing up an important debate today. For the very best investment we can make as a society is, of course, in our children and in their future, both human and economic. Denmark has become a rich and strong country because we have just secured a good framework for our children and our families. I am therefore very pleased that today we will have the opportunity to discuss precisely how we do the best we can. How best to create a society in which children and young people have better opportunities than their parents is, in fact, one of the most important projects of social democracy. That's why we go around talking so much about strengthening everything that has made Denmark strong: our unique social model, where the strong, binding communities are a supporting value, where we take care of each other. For us, it is important that we live together, go to kindergarten and school together and meet each other in society. That is what we want to invest in. The motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party and the very detailed model that follows go in a somewhat different direction. It provides for a significant extension of the possibility of receiving municipal allowances for the care of own children, where community funds should therefore be spent on parents going home in the child's first 4, perhaps even up to 6 years of age, so that the child is not written up in the local crèche or kindergarten. It's a road we can't support walking. Our ambition is instead of having day care institutions that are good enough to be safe as a parent in sending your children there. We basically believe that children thrive and develop from being part of strong children's communities together with other children and, of course, along with professional, educationalally trained adults. It requires both new tools, and it requires more resources if we are to give our children a better framework in our day care institutions: that there are enough educators, that there are enough educational assistants, that they have time and profits for our children, and that we ensure a high quality in our day care institutions. With the new government we have got in Denmark, we have, fortunately, also got a new political direction. Our New Year's resolution for the coming decade is clear: Denmark must be the very best country to be a child in. We have taken the first important steps with the government's first financial law agreement, where we are going to continue, and that is something we will continue to do in the years to come, among other things. promise the standards in our day care institutions. I think that the most important thing in this discussion of the resolution is what concerns our children. But there are also other and perhaps quite fundamental things at stake in the proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party. In the 1960s, women entered the labour market; we took up the battle with the traditional male parenting role and female caring role, new family patterns emerged and employment rates increased. One of the fundamental reasons why this could be done was precisely that we developed our welfare society with strong day-to-day offers for our children and our young people. Then Mom could get into the job market. Today, we still see an unequal pay between men and women, we still see away, that it is women who take the majority of the bar, but we have come a long way anyway. I fear that this proposal, if adopted, would be a serious setback for equality in Denmark, because I think it would end up with the majority of those who went home with the children being women. The whole foundation of our welfare society and our working model is, of course, that we go to work, that is, that all those who can go to work and that they contribute to supporting themselves and contributing to the community. So this applies to both parents. It has proved to be good for equality in Denmark, it has proved to be good for our welfare societies. In the Social Democratic Party we cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. We would rather invest in our common welfare. For us, it is not the solution that we spend more public crowns for housewives. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129181443	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is to Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129181448	Thanks for the speech. It was, in turn, a very ideological speech, giving priority to equality and to what the Social Democrats think is right for children. After all, institutions are something that has been built so that children can be out of the way so that parents can work. There is no research to show that it is better for children from well-functioning homes to be in an institution than it is to be at home. There is research that shows that it is better for children from very poorly functioning homes to be in the institution, but if you come from an okay family, what by far most people do fortunately, then there is nothing that shows that it is better. Maybe it's worse, maybe it's really bad. We don't know that either. How can one stand here and say that in any case we have to go on with this model, for full garbage, instead of giving the tiny opening that the Danish People's Party wants, namely to give freedom of choice to those families who think they can do the job themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129181555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129181555-2	I think that some of the fantastic thing about our day care institutions and the system we have built up together over many years now is that we can actually solve two tasks at the same time: we can allow both mother and father to go to work. It's good for all of us. At the same time, with the day care institutions, we can take the first steps to build a strong community, where we meet cross-country, where we come from and where we can learn something together. I do not recognise that the institutions have no value to children. I believe that the places where it works, where you build strong communities for children, and where there is plenty of pedagogy and learning along the way, the children walk from there strengthened, and they at least go from there ready to start primary school and start their journey in the educational system. After all, there is a lot of research that shows that the early effort, the effort early in the child's life, is absolutely crucial to the building blocks that you stand on for the rest of your life in the educational system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129181650	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129181651	But there is so much of what the rapporteur says is not right. It is true that if you come from a very, very bad environment, it is a great advantage to get into an institution. But there is no research to show that this is the case if you come from a normal family. So it is not true that this is the foundation of Danish democracy and the Danish community. It may be the foundation of stress and depression when you get into your teens. We don't know. That is why I find it strange to make such a praiseworthy speech and swear something in the ground that just gives freedom of choice to some parents who would like to be allowed to look after their children themselves because they are concerned about how their children feel in a daycare institution. And there is no evidence that it is good for everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129181738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129181738-2	In fact, I do not think that is exactly what the proposal is about. That freedom of choice is there today. Everyone is free to go home with their children. What this is all about is, of course, whether we should jointly finance, that you can go home with your children. I just have to say that I give priority to Community funding to the Community institutions and not to the individual being able to go home with his children. But everyone is free to do so on their own behalf.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129181804	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129181809	It is such a rather funny debate where you paint it very black and white. But this isn't really black and white. It's about how if you want to have your child in a day care center, you can of course have it. If you do not want to have your child in a day care center, you need to have better opportunities to care for your child at home during the first few years. I have to ask: does the rapporteur really believe that it is more important to be in the labour market than to be with your children so that women and men will not be better able to be with their children if that is what they want?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129181847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129181848	Hopefully it isn't an either-or-so that you either go to work or you're with your kids. I think we're a lot of parents in this country trying to balance both. But it is clear that the day institutions provide the opportunity to do both; that you can go to work and support yourself and contribute to the community and at the same time be with your children. I think there are plenty of things we can talk about in relation to the broad family policy. How do we make it easier and more flexible in the labour market so that you have more time with your children? But what the questioner is arguing for would mean that no one should go to work because we should just go home and be with our children. I don't think our social model can stand up to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129181927	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129181928	That's not what I'm talking about either. I am talking about the fact that, as a family for quite a few years, while our children are very young and vulnerable and fragile and need closeness and care and love, we must have the opportunity to adapt as best we can, even if it includes caring for our children at home. That is what we need to discuss, and that is what we are discussing now: there must be better opportunities to do so. However, the rapporteur also touched on this whole debate on equality, and I have to ask whether the rapporteur really believes that women who choose to give priority to being at home with their children for the first few years are giving the wrong priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182010-2	No, it is entirely up to the individual man as well as woman whether you want to go home for the first few years with your children. We have the opportunity to do so today. But if we go in structuralally and support it, I think it would be a setback for equality. If we, as a community, call for people to go home and not be part of the labour market, then I think that would be a setback for equality. On the contrary, I think that we have been moving in the other direction for 50 to 60 years now, in which we would like to support, in structural terms, the equality of the sexes, including their opportunities in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182042	Then it is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182043	Thank you. After all, one does not become less equal if one chooses to go home freely. Then you are still away as equal as everyone else; you have just abandoned an opportunity you had given yourself. The rapporteur talks a little about early action, and that is true. We know that's important. But the most important thing for the child in his first two years of life is actually to have the safe close relationship with his parents, and it is actually the best early effort one can give a child. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182116	Yeah, it's absolutely crucial. That is also why we have extensive maternity arrangements in Denmark and, of course, among others. has some really strong agreements through our labour market model, which has ensured the possibility of a relatively long maternity leave compared to other countries: that is, among other things. also from the realization that it is absolutely crucial for a good start to life that you have strong ties with your parents, and there should also be the possibility that you can have that not only during the first years of life, but indeed in many of the years when you are a child, i.e. to have strong ties with your parents. At the same time, you can also meet educators and educational staff who can provide both learning and care, and you can become part of some strong children's communities when parents also have to do their job. I do not think that is contrary to each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182202	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182203	The rapporteur is therefore of the opinion that what a teacher can do is not a mother or a father? Because I often think we hear that in the debate: the pedagogues and all this learning and all that the educators can give are very fine, but what is it that a mother can't do? Should you be trained to be a mother or a father?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182220	No, I definitely don't think you should. But I think that, and I think that would be quite strange now if the questioner did not acknowledge that a teacher who goes to work in a daycare centre comes with a professionalism and a pedagogy that can be applied in a completely different way than parents will be able to do. By the way, because you have the community of children and there can create something unique common learning that I think is extremely important in the formation of the whole human being to have with you. I think that is a pity about the professionalism of the educator, but I do not believe that one can replace the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182256	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the Social Democrat rapporteur and we turn to the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182316	Thank you for the floor. As family rapporteur, it is wonderful to see family policy on the agenda. The ideas about a working group focusing on an adjusted model for Danish family policy are also very good. However, we in the Left are sorry that the motion for a resolution has already described in advance what it should contain. This prevents us from having a fundamental dialogue on family policy: where are we going and how are we going there? We are very much in favour of the money being followed by the children's family, who must themselves have the amount that the municipality normally provides for childcare. The modern family must have the freedom to choose whether children should be cared for in the public, private or home in the form of home care, and it is important that the quality requirements set out in the choice be met. If parents choose home care, it's fine, and it's up to them and not us to decide. The left is a liberal party. We do not want to set foot for the parents' free choice. We must therefore accommodate families with flexibility to shape the life they want for their children. But the economic basis must also make sense. The authors of this motion for a resolution propose an adjusted model of Danish family policy with demands that the Left does not consider to be financially responsible to support. Among other things, financial support for the care of own children in the home must be set up and based on the benefit system, and the grant must, as a general rule, be equal to the benefit rate. Such a scheme, which provides financial support at the level of the benefit rate, is not only expensive but will also result in many parents withdrawing from the labour market for longer periods of time, because it can be used during the first four years of the child and up to six years per year. family. Many Danish jobs and companies may suffer as a result, which will be in short supply for longer periods of time. The motion for a resolution, if implemented, will probably be very expensive, also for Danish companies and ultimately for society and thus the Danes. So the intention is very good, but the model is not optimal, and therefore the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution as tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182537	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First of all, it is Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182541	Thank you for your speech and thank you for your positive attitude, although the Left cannot support it, unfortunately. There is, of course, now a system whereby local authorities can help make this scheme compulsory. Because it would be a small patch on the wound; it would be a small step towards what we in the Danish People's Party would like to do. Will you help make it compulsory for all municipalities to offer?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182624	Well, as a starting point, we think that the money should follow the child, which is why we are also in favour of looking into whether it should be compulsory for all municipalities and not on a voluntary basis, as it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182634	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182635	I am pleased about that, because that means that the Left, ideologically speaking, will not deny that it may be good for parents to be allowed to look after their own children. And that means that it is the economic part of what is most important for the Left. In other words, you have a higher priority in the labour market than in the family; parents are more of a labour force than they are an important part of the family.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182704	I would say that it is both and, of course, we have had the debate here this evening that the family can take care of the child as well as a day care institution can. We're not for or against these two things. The economic incentive is, of course, that there is the challenge that companies cannot do without employees over a long period of time, and indeed it can be a challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182729	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182731	Thank you for your speech and for recognising that this is an important area. I understand from the rapporteur from the Left that it is actually a good idea that Danish families are better able to adapt as they please. What, then, does the rapporteur think about the fact that, instead of a subsidy, it was made an employment allowance which could then be used in the family and thus perhaps, for a slightly shorter period, go home and look after the children? So what does the rapporteur think about this is an employment allowance which is granted to the family and which can then be used for it, what is to be said, working party?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182808	That might be a very good suggestion to look into. I am not at all opposed to that. I just think it's important to say here that this is a decision that is one hundred percent up to the family. This is not something on which we in the Folketing can make decisions. It is the individual family that best knows what is best for their own child. And it is also a tough priority, just as it is, if you want to study while you have young children there, it is also a priority, and it is also here. That is why we do not support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182834	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182835	It sounds good that the rapporteur thinks that this is a good idea and we appreciate it. But when the rapporteur attaches so much importance to the fact that it is the family's choice, does the rapporteur not also recognise that it is very, very difficult for a very large number of families today to make it work economically if one parent is to stay at home perhaps just 1, 2 or 3 years and look after the children while they are very small, because of the very high tax pressure we have in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182910-2	Yes, if there isn't a grant. And it is, as it is today, voluntary for the municipalities whether they will grant it a subsidy to the family. However, I do not buy the premise that the grant should be at a level of benefit. I think it is very good in relation to the municipalities that have it and that it is at something similar to a su-level. Because, as I said before, this is a tough priority for families. I also think that this can be a very healthy priority for some children. It is up to the family itself, as well as it is, whether you want to study while you have toddlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182937	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129182939	Thank you. I am also glad that the Left does not think ideologically that day offers are so much better than family. However, I am a little upset when the rapporteur says that we are then at risk of parents withdrawing from the labour market. Children must be the most important thing in society, period. There can be nothing above your children nor can there be a job. The rapporteur then says that this may have some social consequences. Perhaps so, but could we at least, as the proposal says, set up a working group so that the consequences could be calculated?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129183017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129183018	We need private companies and we need employees in private companies to generate growth, for example. Good day care centres or nursing homes, which I know the party cares a lot about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129183033	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129183034	Okay. That's an attitude you can have. But if the proposal was just about setting up a working group to look at this end, and then Dansk Folkeparti has not decided anything else... could it be interesting to find out which models you could possibly bring into play?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129183051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129183051-2	Yes, but I almost put that in my introductory speech to the rapporteur, that is to say that we think it is very important to talk about family policy. And we really want to be in a dialogue with the Danish People's Party on this subject. I do not think that we can adopt anything as specific as the demands contained in the motion for a resolution in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129183108	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129183126	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party we are concerned about the family in today's society, and we therefore want to give it better conditions. We believe that the family is of immense importance to both children and adults' mental health and their experience of meaning and proximity. The families constitute the smallest and most important unity in a country and in a culture. What you learn and practice in your family is to a large extent also what you bring with you into the great community. The family is even more important than the school. That is why it is so important to give families good conditions today. In Denmark, a social model has been chosen in which both parents in the families of children are preparing and children spend their time in institutions. Our financial system is then set up. Many are happy with the scheme, but it leaves little room for freedom of choice for the individual family. Families who want to take care of their children themselves may find it difficult to find a place in the economy for that, and we basically do not know if it is good for children to get into an institution. As child researcher John Halse says: "We put children in an institution from the age of 10 for five or six years of their lives without knowing what comes out of it. It's similar to a doctor who tells the patient that we're just doing this surgery in the hope that it works. We have no idea what is best from the children's development. We know, for example. nor whether the high incidence of stress and depression among young people can stem from early institutionalisation. That is why the Danish People's Party proposes, with this resolution, that a family policy working group be set up to find opportunities to make it easier for families to take care of their own children while they are young. Our proposal that it should be easier for parents to take care of their children themselves will, in my opinion, become even more relevant today, when we talk a lot about the quality of day care institutions and about standards. It would be a little easier to have fewer children per year. adult in the institutions if there are more children who can be cared for at home. In addition, the current criticism of the quality of the institutions can also give parents an additional incentive to look after the children themselves. We therefore believe in the Danish People's Party that our proposal to make it easier for parents to care for their children themselves is highly topical. We have set out a number of guidelines which we believe are necessary to take into account in such a proposal. We do not want this proposal to help undermine the integration of foreigners into Denmark and their knowledge of the Danish language. Therefore, the proposal should only cover those who are so familiar with the Danish language that they as something natural speak Danish with their child. Otherwise, we will only help create parallel societies with this proposal. In addition, our proposal is that you should be able to receive an allowance equal to the daily allowance rate while you are at home for the first four years of your child. We hope that the other parties of the Things will support the proposal so that we can give families in Denmark better opportunities to look after their children themselves. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129183448	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Ina Strøder-Schmidt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129183452	Too little has been said about the economy in this proposal. I have spoken to a number of economists who say that it would be incredibly expensive. So I would like to hear how many billions of kroner the Danish People's Party has calculated this proposal to about cost.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129183517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129183518	We don't know how many people will take advantage of it. So far, of course, we can see that not many people are taking advantage of the opportunity that already exists today, where you can get subsidies to take care of the child in your own home for 1⁄2 years. There are approx. 1,000 families using that scheme right now. It's hard to make a realistic calculation of how many of these would include. So we have not made a complete calculation, and I do not think we can do that. But that is something that, when we set up this family policy working group that we are proposing, we will be able to try to make some measurements.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129183605	Mrs. Ina Strjer-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129183607	I am just a little surprised that no calculations have been made at all when I hear several economists talk about how expensive it is. So it would be very interesting to get closer and see where we land. Because then, of course, we will also have to talk about where that money will come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129183630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129183631	Yes, I fully agree with the questioner on that. I just don't think we have the opportunity to do this kind of attitude study in the Danish population of how many people want to use it here. But I'd love to do that with the help of the Ministry. It would be really nice to have this unveiled, and then, as the questioner also says, we will be able to create a more realistic financing model. After all, we have said that the money must be taken from the room or from another scheme that we do not like very much, namely the temporary allowance for families with children. But if you know the amount, and if you have the opportunity to identify it, you may find other ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129183721	Then it is Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129183722	Thank you. Mrs Marie Krarup mentioned earlier that there was no evidence that it is good for children to go to day care institutions, if they do come from an okay family. I would just like to ask in this context: there has already been a demarcation in this proposal that is linked to the definition of an okay family? And what is an okay family according to Mrs. Marie Krarup?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129183748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129183752	No restrictions have been placed on this. There must be freedom of choice. It must be the parents who have to judge if they're capable of doing this. The only case where we believe that parents should not be allowed to make that decision themselves is if you do not speak Danish with your child, because then you keep the child from being integrated into Denmark by learning Danish at an early stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129183815	Mrs. Anne Sophie Callesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129183816	We also want children to learn Danish when they live in Denmark, but it is not true that this is the only restriction contained in the proposal. It is also a question of having lived in Denmark for at least 20 years. Is it also necessary to be an okay family that you have lived in Denmark for the last 20 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129183834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129183835	No, not necessarily, but you can say that it keeps families who may just be on a shorter visit in the country out of this. We do not think this should be the responsibility of the Community. We should not have some form of work tourism for Denmark, where people settle for a period of time in order to have the opportunity to take care of their children themselves. We believe that it should be people who live permanently in the country and who speak Danish who should be able to benefit from this scheme. That's why we've put those two limitations in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129183913	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129183917	Thank you. It was then one that turned into two, but there are many limitations. It also says that it is a condition for receiving grants that both parents must have been in employment or in training for 3 out of 4 years. So that means that if, as a single parent, you have been unemployed for a few years but have entered full employment, you cannot, even if you are Danish, be allowed to take advantage of this scheme, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129183939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129183940	When the question was asked before whether there were any restrictions, it was accompanied by the word okay, and that was the limit I did not like. I don't have to judge whether a family is okay or not, I think the families should judge that for themselves. But when it comes to using tax dollars to finance people's childcare, we just have to be sure that this is not a way for people like going hidden unemployed. Well, that wouldn't be fair. It has to be for the kids that you do it. So there we have put in a whole range of restrictions, that is true, but the other one went more on this issue of whether the families are socially acceptable or not, and there we have not put in anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129184024	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129184025	This means that if the father has worked for the last 4 years and the mother has had work 2 out of 3 years of the last 4 years and the family feels super okay, you can't use the scheme, can you?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129184045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129184046	In other words, what we want to avoid is that it becomes a form of unemployment benefit, in which people are not trying to get involved in the labour market. So I would recommend the questioner to be part of the family policy working group so that we can go into detail about this kind of thing if it is an area that we want to be very clarified. What we want to avoid is that it should become a form of unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129184118	Thank you. So there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Radical Left rapporteur and Mrs Sophie Callesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129184128	Thank you. I would like to start somewhere else, namely by asking if there is a challenge for our families today and for children when they are young. And yes, I definitely think there is. There are a lot of parents today who leave the day care center and have a stomach ache, too many who feel pressured by both having to take care of a job and being able to be there for their children while they are young, and feel confident that the children have a well-kept upbringing and are surrounded by closeness and care. That is why I am also pleased that we have found money to raise the quality of our day care institutions in this year's Finance Act, because there are no parents who have to go to work with stomach pain. In addition, as a family rapporteur, I am also concerned about discussing how to achieve a better balance in the everyday lives of the families who are under pressure. But instead of sending the parents and we must say, especially the women, all the way home to the meat pots, I think it might be appropriate to discuss the framework for both parenting and having sufficient time with your child and at the same time also having a job. It is acting, for example. about looking at the framework around part-time, i.e. the possibility of going part-time when the children are young, and about the possibility of taking children's sick days, because the rules that exist today are precisely designed for a time when there were very many women at home at the meat pots, and you could just send the children in to the neighbor if they were sick, for example. So we would like to discuss that, but that is not what this proposal is all about. What, on the other hand, lies in the proposal is a question of who the Danish People's Party wants to pursue family policy and who it is that the Danish People's Party believes is better than the educators to look after the children, because we have to understand that it is not good for children to be with educators, or that it is certainly better to be with the parents. But it is only the parents who have lived in Denmark for the last 20 years, and they must speak Danish, and they must not live in a exposed residential area. So when, like under such a parole with more freedom for families, you don't want to make yourself a judge at the same time making a choice about what kind of families are suitable to care for their children, it's that we get off completely. Therefore, we cannot be involved in a proposal where we allow being a suitable parent to depend on your language and your place of residence and on the attachment you have, for example, how long you have lived in that country. That is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129184402	There is a brief comment, and it is from Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129184405	I am sorry that the rapporteur has not understood our proposal, because it is not really a question of whether you are fit or not fit to look after your children yourself, if you live in a ghetto area or if you, for example, live in a ghetto area. speaks Turkish or Arabic with his child. One can easily be really suitable for it, but the problem is that one does not speak Danish. And you just have to face up to the fact that it gives the children a bad start in life if they are not given the opportunity to learn Danish from the very young. And it can also help parents a lot that children learn Danish because they are better and faster at learning Danish when they are young. So it is not at all a question of whether one is more or less suitable. It is about the fact that it is bad for the children's future in Denmark not to come to an institution where they learn the language.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129184456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129184458	Now I'm not the one who has to ask questions back, but I'm gonna want to do it anyway. For one thing, the question of the language of the home, and we agree that children must learn to speak Danish, but what is also in it is that the Danish People's Party wants children who have grown up in vulnerable residential areas to be forced into a mandatory day offer. So how does that relate to what has just been said? I simply find this difficult to understand, because if we should take it for good that the Danish People's Party does not think that you are unfit as a family, even if you speak languages other than Danish, then we should give those families the opportunity to go home with their children while they are young.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129184542	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129184543	In other words, it is a question of those who live in ghetto areas not speaking Danish. That's why this arrangement has been made. That is precisely why there is compulsory institutional space there. And if you live outside a ghetto but speak Turkish or Arabic with your children, then we do not think that arrangement should apply to them, because it is not good for the children not to learn Danish. There you just have to give higher priority to the Danish language, although I would also prefer that they were taken care of at home, if you have to say so, that you gave the parents the opportunity, if they wanted to, to take care of them at home. But we just need to take greater account of their language learning.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129184624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129184625	Now we are regularly discussing surveillance in this hall, and the last time I checked, we had not set up surveillance cameras in the private homes in the exposed residential areas and thus provided proof that no one there spoke Danish with their children. So I don't buy the premise that you can know that because you live in a exposed residential area, you don't speak Danish with your children. I stand by the fact that for us it is therefore essential that we treat families equally, and this proposal does not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129184657	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129184700	Thank you. I just want to hear whether the rapporteur admits that parents are better than educators to look after children.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129184709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129184710	I don't want to judge who's best at caring for the kids. I believe in the value of our day care institutions, and I believe in the value of having educationally trained staff in our day care institutions who can develop children's language, motor skills and a number of other things in the hours when parents are at work. At the same time, I also do not want to judge that some parents want to go home with their children, while they are small I think that is quite fine but I also do not want to create an incentive for them to do so, and I want, as others have said, not to give priority to Community funds to draw them away from the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129184749	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129184750	But an investment in children with Community funds is also an investment in the future of the Community. Well, that's the way you can look at it. Is the rapporteur not interested at least in setting up a working group to identify the area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129184802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129184803	Well, if the Danish People's Party goes back and writes a proposal that does not limit it to being a particular group of parents who are suitable to take care of their children, and also spreads it out, so that we can discuss the framework for part-time work, for example. I am much more concerned about this, because there is a large group of parents today who feel pressured but who do not necessarily want to go home with their children all the time and who I also do not want to give an incentive to withdraw completely from the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129184830	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129184832	Now the rapporteur mentioned this issue of equality again and something about women back to the meat pots. I mean, I know it doesn't say anywhere that it's specifically women. Does the rapporteur really believe that the rapporteur knows best what is the good life for men and women? If not, why does the rapporteur want to prevent women and men from being more closely associated with their children and that the family is generally better adapted as they wish?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129184903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129184904	I do not want to prevent families from making the choices they think are best for themselves. After all, the history of our day institutions is precisely that we wanted to allow women to enter the labour market. For this reason, we also provide high-quality day care institutions, with 75% of them. has been paid by the government; the 25 per cent. pay the families themselves. I think that is a very sensible arrangement. Should we then choose to give a special allowance to stay at home and not go to work? No, I do not think we should, but that does not mean that I think it is a wrong decision to make that you want to go home with your children, if that is what you find best and that is true regardless of your gender.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129184945	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129184946	That is precisely what I hear the rapporteur say, namely that the rapporteur does not think that Danish families should have better opportunities to adapt as they please and have better opportunities to leave a parent at home. I would then like to ask a little something about the rapporteur's view that it is therefore more important, so to speak, to force people into the labour market • women into the labour market • than it is that these women are given better opportunity to give priority to going home for the first few years with their children, if that is what they want.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129185022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129185023	Well, I don't want to give an incentive that you don't go to work when you have little kids. I want to create a good framework for you to go to work and at the same time have a good conscience, a good gut feeling when you send your children to day care, and also that you can choose that children should be fewer hours in the day care institution. But if you make the choice to be completely outside the labour market, I do not think it is the task of society to provide a subsidy for it. It wasn't until we had day care. We have chosen to have day care institutions, and we have chosen to 75%. of the cost of it is paid by the government. I think it is very good that we have it in this country, and I am extremely proud that we do, but I do not want to give subsidies for being at home with your children and not participating in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129185108	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to SF's rapporteur, Mrs Ina Strøder-Schmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129185117	The resolution itself to set up a working group to look at family policy is, of course, nothing wrong with it. I think that's a good idea. It is, of course, down in the comments that we disagree, and SF cannot support a proposal in which it has been decided in advance that the conclusion of the working party's study should be a four-year home-care scheme, which can only be used by parents who have lived in Denmark for 20 years. We would like to be part of a working group that looks at a new family policy, but if we have decided in advance what the conclusion should be, then there is not really any new policy coming out of such a working group. We do not think that conclusion should be given in advance. In the SF, we would like to help make some suggestions that could give children's families more time to be with their children, and we ourselves have already had some suggestions that there should be a right to go down in time to 30 hours a week and that there should be an opportunity to borrow up to DKK 60,000. a year by the State as compensation for wages. And we would also like to see the possibility of having more sick days, that is to say children's sick days. So just to come back to the actual motion for a resolution to set up a working group in the field of family policy, I would say that we would very much like to do so, but we will not, if the conclusions are given in advance and certainly not when the conclusions have been reached by the Danish People's Party. That is why, unfortunately, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129185312	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Bendixen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129185315	Thank you. I know that SF has been very concerned that children are early in kindergarten, and that means that somewhere you must also think that children are early in day nurseries. It was, after all, a system that was changed years ago, which went from three years down to 2.9 years. It was done as a saving exercise. In this respect, we have agreed with the SF, so I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not, overall, also agree with the Danish People's Party and New Citizens' Party, I think I might be able to hear that the family must be the most important in at least the first two years of life of the child.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129185352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129185354	Yes, the family is the most important thing. Then there are just some families that can't really accommodate caring for a child, and then the family isn't the most important thing, at least not the biological family. But to come back to the question of whether crèches are early in crèche, I have actually, before this proposal was put forward, looked very much at home care, because we are not deaf. We are also told that there is a great deal of demand for this proposal. So I've sat down and looked back and forth at a lot of research: Is it better to look after the child at home? What is the ideal age for getting into an institution? Is it better to be in an institution? We have a lot of research to show that it is good to be in the institution for all kinds of reasons, social and in relation to languages, and especially for children coming from families who are at risk; that is clear. But for ordinary families I have to see research that shows in black and white that it would be better if the time for the child to go to the nursery was postponed. But I would very much like to see that research, so I hope we go home and find it, because then we can talk about it, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129185517	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129185518	The problem is that there is not really any research that has actually tried to examine whether it is better for the child to be at home. One has only researched whether day offers are good and which of them are better when comparing them with each other unfortunately. I am a little curious about what the Socialist People's Party rapporteur says about going down to 30 hours a week, because that is probably also depending on what the employer says about it. So what does SF think of such a scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129185544	What I said was that we want to introduce a right to go down to 30 hours. In fact, most jobs offer the opportunity to go down in time, but not all jobs do, and so we would like to see whether a right could be introduced that would allow everyone to go down in time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129185610	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we go to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Jakob Silver Mound. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129185619	There is no doubt in this Chamber that there are many families of children who experience an incredibly pressured everyday life. Some of us remember it from years ago. We can have younger family members who are in that situation today. I guess there's a situation where there's a lot of pressure. You have to get up really early and fix what needs to be done. You have to suck off to the day care center to deliver the kids. You gotta whip off to work. You gotta whip from work. You have to pick up in a hurry, and then there's plenty to do when you get home. It's not always fun for the kids. It's not always the same fun for the grandparents. So in the Enhedslisten, we believe that there is a need for a family policy that gives children's families more time to be together in everyday life. You can do that in many ways. This can be done in relation to improved maternity arrangements. This can be done in relation to improved parental leave arrangements. Several people have already mentioned the issue of giving an extended right to be at home during children's illness. One can make a general shortening of working hours. There are thus many excellent ways of doing this, so we agree with the proposers that it would be good to discuss a new family policy where there was more time for parents to be with their children, but we cannot support the proposal that lies here. We are not very excited about the model, where the money simply follows the child, and in the particular case here you get money to stay at home for up to 6 years to take care of your own child. There are a number of different drawbacks to this. I do not really know how sincere the proposal is, with all the reservations that have been expressed. You must have been in the country for 20 years. Language requirements are required. Where no language requirements are required, employment requirements are required, etc. and so on, and the obvious aim is to exclude citizens from being covered by what the Danish People's Party believes could be a very good arrangement. What is really the motive for excluding people who, for one reason or another, have been hit by unemployment or have been out doing volunteer work for two years in a developing country or have been working for a few years abroad, I do not really understand. It is as if the Danish People's Party is also holding the idea that we should discuss the issue of being paid to care for children in our own home. So there are several reasons why we actually think it is a really, really bad proposal as it is here, but we certainly think there is a need to pursue a more family-friendly policy than the one we are pursuing today. We are very happy to discuss this further, but we do not think that this proposal is the starting point for a good discussion. So we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129185953	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Conservative People's Party rapporteur, Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129190003	Thank you very much. I would like to begin by thanking the Danish People's Party for the motion for a resolution. I think that the intention of the proposal is very good. On the conservative side, we support the free choice of families, including when it comes to the possibility of being able to go home with the child for a period of time while the child is small. We are therefore also pleased that there are municipalities which have given priority to parents being able to apply for subsidies for the care of their own child in the home for a period of time. That is why we do not see any reason why we should drag down a uniform model across all municipalities, but instead we should give the municipalities the opportunity to adapt individually to their local needs. That is why we cannot support the resolution here, although we think that the intention of the proposal is very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129190105	Thank you. I do not see any wish for short remarks, and that is why we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129190113	Thank you, President. In fact, in the alternative, we will, as a starting point, be able to discuss whether or not we can support the fact that we can go home and look after our children. It is clear that we would have to find a good arrangement and secure it financially, so it was to find out and finance and everything. I do not know whether I agree with the sources of funding of the proposers, but I believe that we are the party on what we call it, the red-green wing, which may look most positively at a type of support for those who could go home if it is really fenced in. Unfortunately, there are a number of things in this resolution that throw us off again, for example. that the scheme should be targeted at Danish families, that parents should have resided in Denmark for 20 years, and that, in accordance with the current rules of the daily offer law, it should continue to be a requirement that 1-year-old children in families living in vulnerable residential areas should go to crèche or day care, i.e. the rules that were introduced as part of the political agreement •One Denmark without parallel society, which we voted against. We also think it is wrong that it should be a condition that both parents should be in employment or training for the last 3 out of 4 years and that it should be a requirement that the non-home parent should have a full-time job while the other one goes home and takes care of the child. Well, we wouldn't mind that one parent was in education. In fact, we are in favour of civil pay, so we would not mind the other parent being available either. Then this would have stopped three or four lines down in the text, we would actually have been very positive, but then there are a number of things that make us unable to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129190317	There is one brief comment from Mrs Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129190321	Thank you. In fact, the rapporteur does not surprise me quite so much because I now know the rapporteur from the last session and the family policy pursued there. So thank you for supporting the basic idea itself, because that is what I hear the rapporteur actually support, but it is the details of the comments that the rapporteur rejects.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129190341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129190342	We'd like to talk about it. I don't know if it should look exactly like this, but we're positive about a type of support so you can take care of your kids at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129190349	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129190351	Various options have been mentioned by the other rapporteurs, which could then be looked at, among other things. the employment allowance, part-time schemes or the 30 hours per week here. What does the rapporteur think of such ideas?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129190406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129190407	I think that if we were to do this and if we were to get into the happy situation, that there were several parties that would help to talk about the specific content, we would have to take it from the bottom up and find out how it was to be financed. I find it hard to comment on these things exactly, I find it difficult to see exactly what it's going to cost and something like that. I think you should take it together and from the end of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129190432	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and then the next one is Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129190439	I am very pleased that the focus is now being placed on family policy. For too long family policy has been under-priority, although the family is one of the most important and meaningful things for man. It is in the family that we learn about unity, love, duties and responsibilities and thereby also learn what it means to be human. In the family you look after each other, you know each other, and you sense the unconditional love. A strong family thus equips the individual to enter society and join in fellowship with others. That is why we must also ask ourselves which way we want to go in the organisation of society. Do we want a society where working life is the only thing that matters, or do we want a society where we also support the close relationship with our children? I believe that many people would like them to be better able to be with their children when they are the least and most vulnerable, but today the labour market has been designed so that we pay a high tax so that we can deliver our children in day care so that both parents can go out and be productive in the labour market. Although it is certainly important for us to be productive, I cannot help thinking that we have sacrificed the most important thing in our lives for the sake of the labour market and the welfare state. Therefore, New Citizens also want it to be easier to go home with the children while they are in the crèche age, and we therefore share DF's objective of a better family policy. We believe, however, that this can be done more financially securely by granting a significant tax credit on wage income to the working parent if the other parent goes home with the child. This will reduce both the tax burden, reduce public spending and give parents more freedom. It is bourgeois, and we shall soon be discussing this motion for a resolution in this Chamber. But we are not going to vote against this proposal which aims to create a better family policy, and I am very much looking forward to the debate on how to organise the civilisation of freedom for parents for the benefit of families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129190711	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then we can move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129190720	Thank you for the floor. After all, motion for a resolution B 66 points to a very important issue, namely the size of the family. Is the family a relic from the old days, is it an instrument for the repression of women and children, or is it one of the critical institutions necessary for several different things: firstly, the creation of the fundamental security on which the gradual human development is based and secondly, the maintenance of the smallest social building blocks, the least social unity in society? I believe that the most important thing about the family is the last two things: that the fundamental security needed for a harmonious personality is best created in the family, and I also believe that the basic experience of what a community is for a size and what a community demands is something that comes from the family. And then, in fact, I believe that the process of liberation that society went through in the 20th century created conditions for good families. It was good that the violence and oppression that could reign in families in the old days were put to an end, and it is good that today, in the vast majority of contexts, it is totally illegitimate with that kind of violence and oppression. In other words, the conditions for a good family life in principle have never been better than they are today. I think, however, that a policy has been in place for many years which hampers and complicates the lives of families. In Denmark, the tax burden is so high that in most cases both parents are forced to work, and it doesn't get any better if you have to pay a totally absurd overpriced price to get a car. When both parents leave home for many hours each day, it is for the vast majority not a free choice, but for the vast majority it is a necessity which it is impossible to oppose. It is a requirement that the state has made, because the state is not any state but a tax-financed welfare state. It really costs family life, contrary to what we have heard from many of the Red rapporteurs. The family could serve as a meaningful and economically sustainable framework for life in a company, that is, owned by the family, but that makes it more difficult to triple the tax on generational change. A very tough economist might say that the Danish People's Party's proposal put down the job offer, and therefore the prejudice about my party would mean that that is why we should be against it. However, when we cannot support the proposal, it is not • and I do not repeat it because it reduces the range of work, because the freedom of families is, after all, more important than the size of the job supply. What we think is the problem with the proposal is that it contributes, as it is, to marinating the family in the state, and that is something that we are not very enthusiastic about. So we cannot support the proposal as it stands, but we think that the discussion is valuable and we also think it is right, as has been said, that an anti-family policy is being pursued so that all that part of it we welcome and we want to work on it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129191122	There is a brief comment, first from Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129191125	Thank you very much for a good rapporteur's speech. In 2012, the Liberal Alliance put forward a proposal to transfer bottom tax deductions from top taxes between spouses in order to promote family types, for example. had a housewife. How would the Liberal Alliance feel about this, for example, because what I proposed just now, instead of being a grant, was an employment allowance that could be received if both parties were in employment and that the working party could have, so that the family could be better equipped to take care of the children at home?
ParlaMint-DK_20200129191207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129191208	As you know, the devil is in the detail, so I need to see the proposal. However, what we agree with in the Liberal Alliance and in the New Citizens' Party is that the existing tax system and fiscal pressure are extremely hostile to the family and that a first sensible step towards improving family life would, of course, be to reduce the tax, so that it was not of an acidic necessity to leave home for many hours every day.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129191235	Probably a question? Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129191238	Thank you so much. I hear that the rapporteur is also concerned about finding a concrete solution to this problem, and in addition to the fact that we will probably be able to agree very quickly that the tax should be reduced in general, so that we can also look at solutions such as the one we are proposing with regard to an employment allowance in order to meet these families and families in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129191304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129191306	Yes, because it is quite absurd to hear the red parties swapping for cause and effect, in other words to say that it is extremely hard to be a family and that we therefore have to pay even more in tax, so that it will be necessary for families to be even longer away from their children. That doesn't make any sense at all. It's complete putting things on your head.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129191325	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129191338	Thank you for the floor in the second place, where I would just like to thank you for the debate, which I think has been exciting. It has probably also been more exciting than I had expected, because I think there were a great many positive expressions, even more positive expressions than I had actually thought there would be. There were very few who were directly opposed to families having greater freedom to care for their own children. Surprisingly, it was the most legit ideological views that came from the Social Democrats, who are also the ones who have set up our society almost completely institutionalised in the field of children. So, unfortunately, the ideological attitude towards the upbringing of children was maintained. However, there was agreement to say that we do not know enough about the area, I think. At least many people said that we do not have a really hard knowledge in this area. We are not entirely sure whether it is good or bad for children to be institutionalised at an early age. I hope that this can be corrected. Perhaps we can make a suggestion ourselves that some research is being carried out in this area. Another thing I want to take from here is that we may have to put forward the proposal in a more open version, in which we can then have a debate on how to do it here, and I can also encourage others who have been positive about giving families more opportunity to look after their children themselves, to make such proposals, and I also heard some very fine proposals from the SF, from the alternative, from the New Citizens' List and, as such, from the Enhedslisten, who all have an interest in doing better for the families of children. So I think there must be some of the proposals on which we can agree in here. Unfortunately, as I said, there was a strong ideological approach from the Social Democratic Party and a very economic approach from the Left, which it would probably be a problem to overcome. In general, however, I think it was positive to have this debate and really get an understanding of how many people really care about this area and want to give priority to it, but who will then do it in a different way than we want to. But that should not stop work, I believe, and then we must find new ways of looking at how we can improve conditions for families who want to take care of their children themselves. But thank you very much for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129191638	There are just a few brief comments. First it's Mrs. Ina Strejer-Schmidt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129191642	I think it's very important and I don't know if I could ask the Ministry a question about it. But at least I'd like to see if you could try to make some calculations on this in the Ministry. Because it should not be totally utopian if one were to agree to support such a proposal. So I hope we can look very soon at the economy of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129191717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129191718	Yeah, we'll back that up. We have given up asking questions about it a little in advance, but it may well be that you can ask it so that you can somehow identify how many you will guess it can be about and how expensive it will be. I would only urge you to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129191739	There's one more question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129191740	It was just a brief remark. I think that is a very good starting point, and then we can talk from there when we have just a little more concrete figures than no figures at all, as we currently have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129191752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129191754	I agree entirely with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129191758	The last person I can see asking for the floor is Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129191800	I would also just like to thank you for this good debate and reassure Mrs Krarup that New Citizens has a resolution on exactly what we are going to be discussing in a very short time, and then we can at least talk about it again. It's a super important area. So thank you for taking it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129191819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129191820	I will look forward to participating in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129191830	There are no more questions, so we thank Mrs Krarup. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200129191839	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 30 January 2020, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
