ParlaMint-DK_20200402120002	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402120014	The items listed as No. 1-5 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402120023	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402120035	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. I ask the legal rapporteurs to vote first and then leave the Chamber, but the Minister may stay. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' In favour of 75 (S, V, DF, SF, KF, NB and LA), against 19 (RV, EL, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402120711	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402120725	The final adoption of the draft law will be put to the vote first by the rapporteurs and can be put to the vote. The vote will end. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' In favour 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402121336	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402121351	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' In favour, 93 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402121906	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402121920	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' In favour 82 (S, V, DF, RV, KF, NB, LA, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)) voted against 14 (SF and EL), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402122452	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402122523	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402122533	The negotiations then concern the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402122540	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. Has everyone voted? The vote will end. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' For the vote 96 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG), against 0, abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted unanimously and is now being sent to the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402123056	The debate is open. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402123116	With the proposal we are debating here today, the proposers want the government to suspend the right of asylum seekers to apply for asylum in Denmark until the corona crisis is over. In this context, the proposers have stated that it does not make sense to restrict or directly prohibit the movement of all people significantly and at the same time to allow asylum seekers who have travelled through countries where they have been at risk of being exposed to coronavirus to come to Denmark without further ado. I would like to start by stressing that the government's main priority in these days is to reduce the spread of infection as much as possible. We are therefore very aware that we must also take the necessary measures in the asylum system, but there is currently no basis for closing the Danish border on the reception of asylum seekers. Under the rules of the Dublin Regulation, Denmark must grant asylum seekers access to the country while the authorities examine which Member State is responsible for examining the application for asylum. Despite the fact that Denmark is in a very serious situation and we must do everything we can to limit the spread of infection, I do not think that we should start talking about rejecting asylum seekers at the Danish border. At the moment, Denmark receives very, very few asylum seekers. In fact, there have recently been days when nobody has come at all. There may be several reasons for this, but part of the explanation is that the other European countries have introduced specific measures on the borders, which is also supposed to affect the number of asylum seekers who end up in Denmark. Asylum seekers are, as it were, discovered by the authorities of the countries through which they travel. Since 14 March, Denmark closed the border to persons who do not have a recognised purpose for entry to Denmark and until the day before yesterday, only approx. 30 asylum seekers in Denmark, and only about a quarter of them have applied for asylum on the border. In fact, only 7 people have applied for asylum on the border since 14 March. The other registered applications for asylum shall include, inter alia: the so-called remotely registered applicants, i.e. foreigners who already have a different residence permit in Denmark but who still apply for asylum. It can, for example, be done. If you are a family member of a resident instead of choosing to apply for asylum in order to obtain a new basis for residence, you should be able to apply for asylum. Although it is very limited how many people are coming, I fully agree with the questioners that we must, of course, ensure that the few asylum seekers who enter Denmark do not infect other citizens in this country with corona virus. I therefore also understand the concerns of the authors of the motion for a resolution about the risk of allowing foreigners to enter Denmark at all, including asylum seekers. This is also why a number of measures have been taken to adapt our asylum system to the particular situation we are experiencing at the moment, thereby avoiding the spread of infection into Denmark, including from asylum seekers entering. A number of specific measures have been taken in relation to the transport of asylum seekers to accommodation facilities. This means that the few asylum seekers arriving at the border were 7 since 14 March, when we closed the border in part and in future are transported to the reception centre of Sandholm by either the police or the defence. In this way, it is ensured that the applicants concerned do not pose an infectious risk by using public transport. In addition, operators operating the centres have taken a number of measures to prevent the spread of the virus. Operators also follow the guidelines of the health authorities at all times. These measures involve, among other things, that asylum seekers on arrival at Center Sandholm in Nordsjælland will be checked for health and that they will be accommodated in single rooms for the first 14 days after their arrival. The measures also imply that all newly arrived asylum seekers will be accommodated at Center Sandholm for the first 14 days after entry in order to concentrate the attention of the preparedness and the authorities. In addition, all ordinary relocations in the centre system have been set on standby and, as a general rule, all regular visits to the centres are closed, just as all training and activation services, including leisure and play rooms, are suspended. In addition, a number of measures have been taken to avoid the risk of infection in the canteens, including: the staff in certain places hand over the food to the residents' own rooms, keeping distance in the cows and eating at a distance. If necessary, quarantine facilities will also be available. Overall, therefore, we have taken a number of measures in the asylum system to limit the contact of asylum seekers with the outside world. It is perfectly logical when all of us are doing everything we can to keep our distance from each other. It is also logical, of course, that all the rules that apply to our common behaviour and that are enforced by the police also apply, of course, to asylum seekers staying in this country. As I started by saying, it is the government's main priority to limit the spread of infection. That is also why we have taken various steps to minimise the spread of infection in the asylum system. The latest information I have received is that none of the 2,500 people who are accommodated are infected with corona. However, it is not possible to suspend access to asylum in Denmark. We cannot do that if we are to comply with the European asylum rules. We have an obligation to do so, but we also have an interest in it. That is why the government cannot support this motion for a resolution and, as always, I look forward to further consideration and, of course, I am available if there are any questions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402123718	Thank you in the first place. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402123725	Thank you. The Minister says here that there is no basis for rejecting asylum seekers entering Denmark. I think, as the Danish People's Party does, that precisely now that we have a risk of infection in Denmark, and when we ask the population to hold to stay at home in all possible ways, do not go on Easter holidays etc. etc. So can the Minister not understand that we need to close that gap and that the government should take due care here instead of clinging to principles which apparently prevent us from doing what is right?
ParlaMint-DK_20200402123813	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402123819	I can well understand that there may be a general concern for foreigners entering Denmark. I can understand that. That is also why I had a need to say two things. Paragraph 1: Since the intensified border controls were initiated, we have had seven asylum applications on the border. And paragraph 2: So far, seven-nine-three! However, it is true that there is no possibility of rejecting asylum seekers on the border as a result of our obligations under the Dublin Regulation, which I think we have an interest in being maintained as far as possible, because otherwise I would fear that Denmark would end up in a situation where we would be hanging on even more asylum procedures than if we did not have the Dublin Regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402123912	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402123915	Now, of course, we can always argue about numbers. The minister says seven have arrived on the border. We can see that there's a number called 25. It is probably some who have entered illegally because border controls do not always stop everything. Perhaps some have been in this country for a long time. So that number is higher. The people are being told that, in the interests of a situation that must have a peak of infection in a few weeks' time, we must do a whole lot, and then asylum seekers are still being let in. That is why our appeal is: now get a grip on what we are doing in our society at all, namely that asylum seekers come in. Then I would like to hear from the Minister about the treatment that is going on in Center Sandholm. We have asked a number of questions about this. As I understand it, the quarantine that is said to be for asylum seekers is not being enforced. You can still walk around Center Sandholm even if you are in so-called quarantine for 14 days. I also understand that fingerprints must be taken and found out of documents in cooperation between what is called UCN and asylum seekers before they are put into quarantine. I should say hello to you and tell you that fingerprinting isn't that simple. Actually, it takes you to get close to the person. So can the Minister not see that there are still problems? There is a gap here, both in relation to the administration and also in relation to the entry of asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402124040	Thank you. Now it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402124044	Thank you. When I say that until now, at least until the day before yesterday, there are seven people who have searched the border, it is because I think that this is the figure that is relevant to the resolution that has been tabled. But the questioner is quite right that the total number of asylum seekers is greater. This is partly due to the fact that people who are already legally resident in Denmark, for example. As a family, however, apply for asylum in order to obtain a new basis for residence. It is actually almost a third of all asylum seekers who already have a legal stay in Denmark, but it is a separate discussion which I look forward to having another day. Unfortunately, I did not have time to reply lately with Center Sandholm, but I would very much like to answer that, so there may be someone else who can repeat the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402124118	We'll see about that. At least now it is Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402124121	Thank you for the floor. After all, there are some very fundamental reasons why the government insists that migrants should be able to come here, in other words travel through many European countries to come to Denmark and seek asylum in the current situation. Does the Minister not have any considerations of principle in relation to the extremely red cloth, it is in the face of the Danes, when at the same time one asks the Danes to knot themselves in this time? We must isolate ourselves; we must live completely, completely different than usual. We also suffer financial losses, and we suffer losses in terms of deprivation of family that we cannot visit in nursing homes, etc. At the same time, a commitment is maintained to people who come from places so far from Denmark that they cannot possibly see Denmark as the first safe country to seek asylum in. So, doesn't the Minister see that it's basically a red cloth on the face of the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20200402124225	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402124229	As I also said to the previous questioner, I can easily understand the discussion. And if I just have to reply briefly to any of that, I would say: yes, we have quarantine facilities available and people are being asked to go for 14 days of quarantine, but we cannot incarcerate people, just as we do not incarcerate others; neither can we with asylum seekers. It is true that we are fingerprinting new asylum seekers; this is partly because, by looking up a database, we can see whether it is people who are wanted in other countries or something. If we don't take those fingerprints, I'm afraid we're gonna let people in who might be dangerous, but who we're not gonna get our hands on. The answer to Mrs Pernille Vermund is that I fear that it can be a great loss for Denmark and the Danes if we break the Dublin Conventions and come out completely, because that makes it impossible for us to negotiate Dublin later, in other words to send asylum seekers to other countries if they are already registered in another country. I believe that, overall, it is in Denmark's interest that we are part of this European asylum system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402124327	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402124331	I am actually surprised, because the Minister has previously explained to the rapporteurs of the Danish Parliament that the Dublin Regulation is currently in force. is more or less suspended, that is, that we do not send asylum seekers under the Dublin Regulation and that those who are in Dublin procedure in other countries do not come here either. That is why the Dublin Regulation cannot really be used as an argument in this situation. What we are discussing here today is, after all, a temporary stop to asylum at the border in Denmark, as long as others are also stopped at the border and we do not want to have a traffic of potential carriers up through Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402124409	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402124411	It is true that we have suspended Dublin transfers both into and out of Denmark, because I see no basis for us to be flying asylum seekers across Europe at the moment, but that does not mean that the Dublin Regulation has collapsed. In other words, if it turns out that the people we register in Center Sandholm have already applied in another country or that their application has to be dealt with in another country, then on the other side of this we intend to have Dublin negotiate them with the other countries. That is why it is important for us that the Dublin Regulation is still intact, even if the transfers themselves have been suspended right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402124444	We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments, and then we move on to the rapporteur's line. First, it's sir. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402124500	Thank you. The government closed the country's borders on 14 March for foreigners who do not have recognised purposes in Denmark. This was to curb the spread of the corona virus that in these months martrate the world. However, asylum seekers can still have access, and it is here that some believe that a paradox has arisen, because why can German tourists who are going to go on an extended weekend in a summer house that is remote, in South Jutland, not enter the country for reasons of public health when they can access it as long as they intend to seek asylum. The difference in this thought example is that there is strict control of asylum seekers coming to the country. You wouldn't be able to do that with tourists. In addition, I believe that the motion for a resolution relates to a different reality from the reality that is actually taking place at the Danish borders. Since the border was closed, virtually no asylum seekers have come to Denmark, and should that picture suddenly and surprisingly change, we have continued the so-called emergency brake in the backhand. The asylum seekers arriving do not pose a risk to the population because they are transported directly to Centre Sandholm. Here they get a health check, as the Minister explained, and should some of them show symptoms of covid-19, quarantine facilities are available at the centre where asylum seekers are located. By the way, all new arrivals must stay at Center Sandholm for at least 14 days in order not to spread the infection around the asylum system. There is currently no need for the proposal that we are discussing today. The main reason is that there is strict control of newly arrived asylum seekers from the time they seek asylum at the border until they are placed in a room at Center Sandholm. At the same time, it would be a breach of our international obligations. This will put us at a disadvantage in our future cooperation with our neighbouring countries and the other countries that support Dublin cooperation. Fortunately, there are historically few asylum seekers at the present time... several days, there will be none at all and so far no asylum seekers have been tested positive. Against this background, the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402124704	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402124709	Thank you for the comments made by the Socialist rapporteur. I just have to hold on to the fact that there's a hole. It may well be that the Socialists believe that relatively few asylum seekers have arrived, and that is also true. On the whole, we have ensured, by means of some austerity, that there are relatively few. But right now, the situation is such that in all sorts of areas in the Folketing we are carrying out things that are intended to contain infection. We ask the people to keep up in a whole lot of areas. We say, among other things: to the public that they should not go to Easter lunch at Easter. There are a lot of areas where the Danes have to get used to some interventions that are completely unknown from earlier times. Therefore, what I do not understand is that the Socialists are not saying: let us be on the safe side and ensure that no asylum seekers enter Denmark. Why is it that we do not want to take due care in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200402124812	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402124815	Well, I think we should put the different weights that are present in different scales. On the one hand, there are some weights in one bowl which argue in the direction Mr. Peter Skaarup mentions. On the other hand, there are some weights in the other scales which would be arguments for having the consequence that, when all this is hopefully over, we will have a major problem in implementing the Dublin negotiations that we benefit greatly from in the Dublin system, so that we can send back asylum seekers who do not have a legitimate basis in Denmark. If we undermine Dublin cooperation by deliberately shutting it down, we will pay a price for what follows, and I certainly do not think that is in Denmark's interest. At the same time, I think that the proportions are missing: there have been historically few asylum seekers, that is quite a small number, and it is not a question of spending large amounts of resources on it. Those who come have explained that the Minister is being moved in a very controlled way from the border to Centre Sandholm, where they are staying until you are sure that there is no danger and they may have to be somewhere else in the asylum system. That is why I do not share the concerns.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402124917	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402124922	Well, I have to say that when I talk to employees involved in this area, there is a very, very great concern about the risk of infection. For what is happening today, and I do not think that the rapporteur is really so well informed, is not, after checking whether he is ill, being quarantined. No, they're all quarantined. The only problem is that when the asylum seeker arrives, you have to take fingerprints and do all kinds of things and things that make you very close to the individual. In addition, compared to the quarantine, there is no question of having it as a requirement; you can move freely around a centre where the risk is great if this disease breaks out. It's the same in the prisons. So I simply do not think that what the government is doing is well thought out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402125006	Thank you. Then there are answers from the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402125012	At this stage, I find it difficult to see an alternative to the solution chosen by the government, because the consequence would be a very large number of asylum seekers who, following this corona crisis, would find it difficult to return to the countries in which they belong when they were to be negotiated in Dublin and, at the very least, we would find it difficult to benefit from Dublin cooperation. In addition, I have complete confidence that the authorities are handling this in a sound manner. I agree that if it were a question of large tourist buses arriving every day with asylum seekers, we would have a logistical and resource problem, but that is not what is at the heart of this case. My acquaintance so far is in the vicinity of seven people in March.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402125046	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mr. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402125104	Thank you for the floor. Like the authors of the motion for a resolution, we in the Left also share the concern about the spread of covid-19 as a result of the entry of asylum seekers into Denmark. The situation as it stands right now is that very few asylum seekers are coming to Denmark, which among other things. is supposed to be due to extended border controls around the country, particularly in Germany. This means that fewer people simply reach Denmark. It is my impression that the government is very aware of the responsibility not to let asylum seekers start new chains of infection when they come to Denmark. The authorities have already introduced measures such as: police transport to accommodations. This means that asylum seekers do not pose an infectious risk when using public transport and quarantine facilities are also available in the centres. For the Left, it is important that the very few asylum seekers who come here do not pose an infectious risk to the Danes, and that is why we think it is good that there are these facilities and that we are very aware of them. We would very much like to help extend the tests you have to do to make sure that there is no infection coming through this system. We would have liked asylum seekers to be quarantined directly, even without a prior examination of which countries the people have been in on their journey to Denmark. In this way, we double-check against the fact that they do not spread any further infection in Denmark. Having said that, however, we in the Left trust that the authorities are focused on the fact that the few asylum seekers who come here do not pose a risk of infection. And for that reason we cannot support the resolution as long as there is no more people in the country than there is, and as long as the government is focused on the fact that the few who come here cannot set new chains of infection in motion. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402125300	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402125306	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I am, of course, a little sorry that the Left, as I hear it, will not support this resolution. However, I note that the Left agrees that it is a problem for the staff involved in asylum seekers that they have to carry out these various investigations when asylum seekers come to Centre Sandholm, at a time when they have not been quarantined, for example. take fingerprints, which for good reasons require you to be very close to people, because it's not just about one finger, it's a major operation. So the question to the Left here is actually: does the Left take part in putting pressure on the government to ensure, after all, that, as paragraph 1, the conditions in Center Sandholm are better managed for the benefit of the police and HK staff involved and, as paragraph 2, to ensure that the quarantine on the 14 days that are taking place is enforced, so that it is a real quarantine so that you do not just wander around the Center Sandholm freely?
ParlaMint-DK_20200402125407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402125412	To this I can say very briefly that these are two things we would very much like to help ensure that the government lives up to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402125418	Thank you to the rapporteur because there are no more brief comments to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of rapporteurs is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Nils Sjøberg. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402125438	Thank you. The Minister informs us that seven people have come to Denmark since 14 March and have applied for asylum. That is to say, it is virtually not a problem. It also makes sense to see this more as a matter of marking itself, as it is largely closed to all communities, borders, air routes. Everything's shut down. That is why the Danish People's Party's proposal here today is completely ineffective in the real world. The Danish People's Party wants to ban people who do not come to Denmark from coming to Denmark. That is why there is nothing left but symbolic. And then we know the Danish People's Party again. After a period in which I personally welcomed the fact that all political parties have worked together cross-cuttingly, it seems that we have got symbolism back. In this crisis too, the Danish People's Party will strike at refugees, suspect them and blame them. This time for the origin of the corona virus. I think it would be right if we had spent the time discussing what we can do to help the elderly, the weak or the lonely. It would also have been more reasonable to discuss the challenges of the hairdresser or other self-employed in this crisis. All the entrepreneurs who are in trouble, we should have talked about instead of this, too. And then the Danish People's Party throws itself over a group of refugees who don't even come to Denmark. Remember that the centre of the virus was China, and now it is Europe that is not the countries from which asylum seekers typically come. The virus probably came to Denmark via Danes who visited Austria and Italy. Moreover, it is and was probably impossible to prevent a virus of this kind coming to Denmark because of the globalisation we are now all part of. That is why it has nothing to do with asylum seekers. In the Radical Left, we think it is logical to shut down visits and so far we agree, but it is not logical to shut down people in this way. We cannot support this symbolic proposal, and I am personally sorry that the Danish People's Party is using this crisis to pursue symbolic politics again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402125724	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402125728	Thank you. I would like to ask the radical rapporteur here something when there are now some accusations against the Danish People's Party. If we now cut all that we disagree on in the policy on foreigners, that's enough for the Radicals and the Danish People's Party, and that's how it's gone and looks at it right now, and that's actually why we've made this proposal, then we're telling the Danes: Now you have to pack up all sorts of activities because we have a huge challenge, and we want to save lives. At the same time we say in the parties and they say in the government that we have to take care of the nursing homes, we have to take care of the staff, we have to take care of the prisons. But exactly when it comes to asylum seekers, they can be admitted to Denmark, they can be transported to Center Sandholm. Why? If we cut the other thing away, the disagreement I mentioned, why not actually take action here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200402125840	We think we do too. We think the government does, too. After all, no one comes directly to Denmark and is allowed to walk around in Danish society afterwards. They are transported directly to the Sandholm asylum centre, where they are examined and checked. That is what is happening at the moment. That's how it works. It has turned out to be very few, it has been found to be seven, the Minister could inform, and I have even heard other, lower figures so the challenge is that very few have come here since 14 March. It goes without saying, of course, that airports have been closed, borders have been closed, everything has been closed. Then a few applicants have been received, and these applicants have been brought under conditions to an asylum centre where they have the opportunity to seek asylum. We think that is an acceptable arrangement, that is to say to do things that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402125926	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402125930	So the Radicals think it's okay that we say to our policemen, who are not used to treating people who may be infected on a transport trip: you have to stand for that. I guess it's gone to the defense. Whatever the case, is it all right that there are also police officers who have to take fingerprints very close to some citizens who do not know where they have been? And is it also okay that you can walk freely around Center Sandholm during the so-called 14-day period you are in quarantine? Is it durable?
ParlaMint-DK_20200402130000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402130004	Thank you. I think there were several points in what the rapporteur was talking about. Point No 1 is the question of how people are being taken in and what work is being done by the police and the military and other people at the border. There is no doubt that they must be protected and that they must work on proper conditions. That is point No. 1. No matter who else they have to check whether it should be the driver, or it should be the person seeking asylum, or a third party, it should be done under proper conditions. That is one point. The second point raised by the rapporteur was the whole of transport. It is done on proper and reasonable terms. It is orderly and there are clear restrictions on how transport is to take place. The third point raised by the rapporteur... Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402130054	I would like to give the rapporteur the opportunity to reply straight away.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402130100	Thank you so much. A third point raised by the rapporteur was the question of how to operate in the asylum centre, and it is clear that arrangements must be found which work satisfactorily at all times.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402130110	That is why I would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no further comments to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402130123	Thank you for the floor. I have a speech to make on behalf of Carl Valentin, who is our usual rapporteur, but who unfortunately cannot be here today because of illness. There have been not only negative experiences during the crisis period. In fact, I find it very uplifting to witness the unity of the Danes in this difficult time, and if anything has irritated me, it has been when individuals have tried to take the crisis hostage to their own political agenda. Frankly, I have to admit that I find it difficult to see the proposal that we are dealing with urgently today as anything other than an expression of it. We are at a time of record low numbers of asylum seekers who have fallen even more as a result of the countries' decommissionings and the covid-19 protocols. The borders have been closed, and we have even reached the point where the United Nations' distribution of quota refugees has been shut down, so the small number that Denmark should have welcomed has largely disappeared. Nevertheless, the Danish People's Party believes that we should take a decision to reject all asylum seekers, even though we are receiving very few people at the moment, and even though the immigration authorities have of course introduced covid-19 procedures at all levels. So if we receive virtually no one right now, and if the situation is under control, then the wacky spectator for today's debate here in the Folketing will ask himself why this proposal is then put forward. It is very difficult for me to see anything other than the fact that the Danish People's Party is trying to use a time of crisis to promote a political brand name for Denmark to stop helping people flee. This is, of course, entirely in line with the party's communication at the beginning of the crisis, and where most of the Danish Parliament was busy communicating to the Danes what they could expect and how they should behave, the Chairman of the Danish People's Party wrote on his Facebook that we should remember that the covid-19 for many was just a flu and that it was much more important to be aware of the significantly greater threat represented by the border unrest in Greece. After several weeks of quarantine, a Danish economy in emergency preparedness, closures of Danish companies and Danish citizens who fear for the health of their loved ones, I think history will pass its own judgment on that message. However, this has not prevented the Danish People's Party from putting forward this proposal as a kind of echo from the time when it underestimated the threat and tried to focus on DF's refugee policy instead. So in the SF we cannot support the proposal, not only because we do not support the unsolidaristarian content, which is trying to solve a problem that does not exist, but equally because we do not believe that the Folketing should reward a self-fixed attempt to capitalise politically on the biggest domestic political crisis for many years. I guess you could hear that I didn't write the speech myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402130414	Nevertheless, I would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur, and then the next rapporteur from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402130432	Earlier this day, we in the Danish Parliament have discussed a proposal in which the Danish People's Party took the Corona crisis hostage to introduce a change to the Aliens Act and thus prevented a broad consensus on a number of measures, which I think many can understand the need for. Now there is another example of the Danish People's Party taking advantage of the Corona crisis as an opportunity to bully one of the party's main concerns. It is well known that the Danish People's Party does not want Denmark to accept people fleeing war and persecution, at least not if they are Muslims. Denmark should not do that. The Danish People's Party believes so when there is a global pandemic, and the Danish People's Party believes so when there is no global pandemic. The Danish People's Party believes this in general terms. Therefore, one might ask whether it is something that needs to be dealt with as a matter of urgency. After all, the unitary list does not use the Corona crisis to call for urgent treatment of a proposal to introduce a millionaire tax or the introduction of socialism, even if, in terms of both a global pandemic and alongside, afterwards and before, we want that to be the case. That is why I would also like to say to the majority of the Danish Parliament that I consider it totally unreasonable that we have given permission for this proposal to be dealt with as a matter of urgency, because it reduces the limit on what needs to be dealt with as a matter of urgency in the circumstances under which we work, which are very difficult and which are very unsatisfactory from a democratic point of view; this applies to the lack of opportunity for deputies and all sorts of different things. But okay, you can just put up with it. I can easily find a few thousand proposals which the Enhedslisten can make and assert urgently and therefore must be passed through. I find it boring that the Folketing has chosen to say yes to this, because it certainly puts the bar very low. The number of asylum seekers coming to Denmark was historically low before the corona crisis, and there are days when there is not a single asylum seeker. This can be used as an argument that it is not relevant, but even if someone came, and even if there were a lot more, the Foreign Affairs Council, the police and the Red Cross have some clear, well-functioning procedures to ensure that the asylum seekers who come are examined and isolated until it is clear that they are not infected. I look forward very much to Mr. Peter Skaarup is expanding everything that police and civil servants up in Sandholm camp were unable to cope with infection. This will be interesting, but I am sure the rapporteur will address that point. The rhetoric in the remarks about preventing asylum seekers from travelling around as possible carriers of infection is a rhetoric similar to a distant past in the 1930s, and it is deeply unpleasant. I think it's deeply unpleasant. I'm gonna have to do sir. Peter Skaarup noted that it was not persecuted people on the run, but ski tourists from Hellerup and similar places with Danish passports that brought the infection to Denmark. They were the ones who did it. It wasn't refugees who came to our borders. We must, of course, continue to honour our obligations under the refugee convention, we must get the corona virus under control in Denmark, and we also have a responsibility to get it under control in the rest of the world because the world is connected, and what is in the rest of the world is also coming to us in some way, and thus we also have a responsibility in relation to the refugee camps, for example. on the Greek islands, where coronasmitte will have quite different serious consequences than they can in our well-organised Danish society. As I said, Enhedslisten does not think that this proposal should have been dealt with urgently with the conditions under which we work, and I would just like to call on the majority of the Danish Parliament to rethink what kind of bar we place for urgent proceedings, otherwise there is a great deal that we can negotiate quickly without the democratic tools we normally boast of, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402130926	Thank you to the rapporteur. For the sake of good order, I would point out that the proposal is not an urgent one, but it is true that the proposal has been quickly put on the agenda. But in its common sense, it is not urgent. There is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402130944	I agree with the President. If it were such an urgent procedure, it might have been that we would have liked it to be put to the vote and the second reading and something like that, but we have not been given the opportunity to do so. But a first reading comes there, and we think that is a good thing. I heard Mr. Søren Søndergaard's speech follows on from the debate that was earlier on the day about Corona crime, and that there was a desire that we should be commenting on it because some adjectives were also used in the past, for example. That it was disgusting that it was dishonest, and it looked like something from the 1930s or something. But if we are just trying to cast aside the normal rhetoric and look at the proposal itself, then it is intended to ensure that when we tell the Danes that they must keep to all points they must not go to Easter lunch, and they must not one and the other say: then let us close the gaps that are there. Is Mr. Søren Søndergaard does not agree that if you as an asylum seeker have probably passed through many of the countries where it is at the moment much worse than it is in Denmark before you got to the Danish border, then there is a risk that you carry it infected with you into an asylum centre or into Danish society, and then we are just as far along with all the efforts we say to the Danes they must stand for?
ParlaMint-DK_20200402131109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402131110	All other proposals which we are discussing here in the Danish Parliament and which are not subject to a special urgency procedure have been withdrawn. This has been put on, and a political decision has been taken on this. That's the way it is. Then you can call it emergency or special treatment, or you can call it something fourth, but that is certainly a fact. There's no other proposal on that, is there? And then, in relation to the question, there is no problem. They don't travel around spreading the infection. They are picked up at the border and taken to Center Sandholm where things are being treated. What's the problem? Where are they contagious? Should the idea itself be just to prevent people from seeking asylum? Why?
ParlaMint-DK_20200402131200	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402131201	The problem is, of course, that we say to some policemen who are not trained to deal with such an infection, and that is what the government did: now you must transport asylum seekers from the border to Center Sandholm. By the way, you've got something else to do. You also need to take some fingerprints... it's a slightly bigger operation... it's not just a little bit more to go to... and you need to look into some things. By the way, we put these asylum seekers in quarantine. But what kind of quarantine is that? Yes, you can walk freely around Center Sandholm. If the infection is first spread there, can you risk what you have seen in other countries: that you have to dissolve the place in question and let people out or set people free, and we are not interested in that? So there's something limping. I don't know if Enhedslisten is interested in that. We do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402131256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402131257	I think it is an interesting observation if what the Danish People's Party says is that policemen are not used to having infected people do, and I would very much like to discuss that with Mr. Peter Skaarup, and then we take it up and get something done about it, because it is not the case that corona is the only infection that exists in the world. There are, for example: Very many asylum seekers who have tuberculosis and other such diseases. So I really hope that from the point of view of the immigration authorities I also hope that the Minister can confirm that the policemen who transport people who can also just have a common serious flu, or what I know, know how to treat them. I would also like to discuss how to take the fingerprints. I know that when you go to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and have to take your fingerprints... it's very laborious... and a photograph and everything for your passport... others can stand several meters from whoever gets it. So if that is the solution, then we can do it, but we do not need to put an end to asylum.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402131355	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402131400	Thank you. I am not counting on us and the Enhedslist to agree on why it is good to have an asylum stop in general, but in view of the situation we are in, where we in Danish society are doing everything we can to stop the spread of infection, I think it is quite appropriate to ask: will the risk of spreading infection among the policemen who are going to carry asylum seekers, on the one hand, and asylum seekers who are staying in asylum centres, on the other hand, be increased or reduced by the fact that there are new people who have travelled here, often packed, through countries that have quite different levels of infection than we have? Can I get a clear answer: will the risk of infection increase or decrease when those people enter Denmark, are transported by the police and enter the centres?
ParlaMint-DK_20200402131456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402131458	After all, there are some unknowns here that we need to take into account. But if we take into account the fact that policemen are of course trained in how to deal with people who may involve a risk of infection of any kind, not only from corona, but also all sorts of other things, and that the Centre Sandholm investigates them and isolates them until it is clear that they are not infected, then there is no increased risk at all...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20200402131523	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402131525	Thank you. The first is that, with the figures for disease we are currently seeing from the police, there is something that suggests that they are more affected by disease than last year in the same period and this despite the fact that we know that the flu and other viruses are at an incredibly low level at the moment. So there's a lot of cops getting infected whether they get it out on the street or at the border or where they get it, I don't know. The second is that when these people come to the asylum centres, they are being asked to be quarantined, but they are not being detained. And that means that everything else is equal, both for those working at asylum centres and for those staying at asylum centres. Does the rapporteur not recognise this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200402131613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402131615	No, I don't recognize that. But even if I accepted that, the solutions are there. That is, if you ensure that the police know how to treat people who are infected not only with this disease, but also with other diseases, and if you transport them under conditions that make you not in contact with them; if you take fingerprints under conditions that make you not in contact with them; if you isolate them until a test has been taken and it has been clarified that they are not infected; if you do the things and then give them 14 days of quarantine, then there is no increased risk. We would like to discuss this with both the Danish People's Party and New Citizens that we do; it just has nothing to do with an asylum stop.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402131652	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402131707	Thank you for the floor. I'm here instead of Marcus Knuth. We must take good care of our country, and we all do so as a united Parliament and together with the government. And right now we are only gathered here in the Folketing to deal with legislative proposals that are absolutely critical at this time, with a serious risk of spreading the infection and of saving our economy. That is why we have also told the Danish people that they must stay at home and only take part in essential activities. We have just voted on five urgent legislations, and now we are here to debate the rejection of asylum seekers at the Danish border in the light of the corona crisis that has hit the whole world. It would have been a relevant debate if we actually had a problem with many asylum seekers at the Danish border, or if we had examples that the spread of the corona virus in Denmark had got worse because of the many asylum seekers or that there was a risk. But the reality is that since the government shut down Denmark and closed Denmark's borders, no asylum seekers have come to Denmark. In fact, in the last two weeks, we have seen the lowest number of asylum seekers in very many years, as has been said earlier, and some days none at all. The low number is not surprising, since the whole of Europe and the world are shut down. In fact, they cannot travel up through Europe and to Denmark anymore. A number of measures have been taken by the authorities to deal with the risk of covid-19 in our asylum centres. We have confidence in this, but we must of course also be aware that they are being respected. We should rather, we think, look at how we can help countries such as Greece and Italy, which both handle and protect Europe's external borders and at the same time take care of the thousands of asylum seekers who are in Greek camps. Fortunately, yesterday we also adopted a major humanitarian aid package, among other things. to the refugee camps with an almost total majority. Unfortunately, we couldn't get DF on it. We believe that here in the Danish Parliament we should give priority to our time and resources on the acute issues at a time when our society is at maximum pressure from both health and economic challenges. And one of the challenges is not, in fact, that we have many asylum seekers at the Danish border. That is why the Conservative People's Party is voting against this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402131947	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402132003	The Danish Government, in connection with the corona crisis, has closed the border for foreigners, but not for migrants seeking asylum. It is an absurd knee-slap for the left and the Radical Left. It's a red cloth in the head of the Danes. Migrants are free to enter Denmark, where they are transported by car by the police to the Sandholm camp. The migrants pose a real risk of infection as they have travelled through several countries and have been many people close together. It is quite irresponsible to expose our policemen and Danes in general to the risk of infection, especially in view of how to ask the entire Danish population to knot themselves in this situation. We Danes suffer from deprivation. We are making enormous efforts not to infect each other to save our vulnerable, sick and elderly fellow citizens from dying of the disease. For me, it is common sense that we should not allow migrants, who are potential carriers of infection, in this situation. By the way, it costs hundreds of thousands of kroner to have an asylum seeker stay just for the first year. Of course, that is not what we need to spend the money on, with a threatening economic crisis ahead of us. Of course, we support the proposal for a stop to the reception of asylum seekers during the corona crisis. This may not come as the big surprise, because in New Citizens we want to completely abolish the right to seek spontaneous asylum in Denmark, both before, during and after the corona crisis. The current asylum legislation is dysfunctional and inhumane and it supports trafficking in human beings. It helps the few at the expense of the many. It costs a great deal of money; in 2016 alone, the reception of asylum seekers cost as much as 3 billion. kr. And the current asylum legislation is causing great damage to Danish society over time, because it draws too much people here who do not share our values, do not comply with our laws, and who directly oppose our freedom, democracy and the rule of the people. Current asylum legislation is the main cause of the deep damage our Danish society has suffered over the past 40 years. There are very many good reasons for abolishing the right to seek spontaneous asylum in Denmark, and this can be done with relatively simple legislative changes without conflicting with the so-called international obligations and conventions. Every year that goes by, the damage to our society grows. There will be several Danish victims of criminal asylum seekers, and the bill for public support, criminal services and social services remains massive. We must not continue to harm our own country and support an inhumane asylum system. We must look after our country and we must look after the Danes. An asylum freeze is not contrary to Denmark's obligations in relation to the UN Refugee Convention; it has been said by the predecessor of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration in May 2019. And, as you know, the Dublin Regulation is a voluntary arrangement for Denmark, which we can terminate at any time because of our legal reservations. Moreover, in the last three years, more asylum seekers have been forced into Denmark as a result of our participation in the Dublin Regulation than we have been able to send out. In other words, it is only a lack of political courage and will that stands in the way of abolishing access to seeking spontaneous asylum in Denmark. I hope that a political majority in this Parliament will find that courage and that will, if not today, then in the future. New citizens support the proposal. We want a stop to spontaneous asylum in Denmark, both during the corona crisis and in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402132416	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur by Mr Seligman. Nils Sjøberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402132422	Thank you. There is something I do not fully understand, but then I would hope that the rapporteur will make it clear to me. The rapporteur points out what I actually fully agree with the rapporteur that it is inappropriate and that trafficking in human beings is disgusting. At the same time, the rapporteur says that the rapporteur does not want asylum to be sought in Denmark. I understand. But can the rapporteur explain to me how seeking asylum in Denmark should make it more difficult or make it less desirable to do trafficking in human beings? How are these two things to be connected in a logical context? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402132507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402132508	It's basically very simple. Since there is no war to flee from in our neighbouring countries, it is, to put it bluntly, because we are a magnet for migrants looking up here, that asylum seekers travel through several safe countries to come to Denmark. They do this by means of smugglers. Had we said that asylum cannot be sought spontaneously in Denmark, that we are helping people in the neighbourhood and increasing efforts where we can help much more for the money we spend, the traffickers would have nothing to do, because then there was nothing to come here for those who want to seek asylum in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402132549	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402132551	Thank you. Will it not increase the desire to be smuggled across the Danish border if you cannot apply for asylum at the border? If you have the opportunity to apply for asylum at the border, you have no reason to be smuggled across the Danish border, because then you will have the opportunity to join and become a member of Danish society and get Danish citizenship etc. If, moreover, we meet the various requirements that we impose, which are, moreover, quite restrictive. So there is no reason to try to be smuggled across the border if you have the opportunity to actually become part of Danish society in other ways. So there is no point in what the rapporteur says?
ParlaMint-DK_20200402132636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402132637	Our policy is not to stop only asylum seekers at the border. Our policy is to have a full stop in order to be able to apply for asylum spontaneously in Denmark. This means that whether you show up at the Danish border or you show up inside the country and say "asyl·," you shouldn't have your case dealt with here. Then you have to go back to the neighbourhoods where we know that we can help a lot more for the money we spend. Therefore, the opportunity to achieve what the traffickers are cynically profiting from will not be there, and thereby the traffickers will lose their profits and also the opportunity to exploit vulnerable people in a tragic situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402132722	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402132737	Thank you for the floor. The only reason the Folketing can accept the anticovid-19 effort is that it is proportional. That is also the only reason why the people can accept the effort. It's proportional. After all, the principle of proportionality is a matter of size. And the effort is proportional to the worst pandemic in Europe since 1918. Next to it, most things look rather small, and so does our efforts. So we have chosen to ask the people for a very, very much because there has not been a more serious pandemic in Europe since 1918. In the Liberal Alliance, we have such a fundamental approach to legislative work that what cannot be explained cannot be defended, and it is therefore quite difficult to explain that refugees must be exempted from making the very, very large sacrifices that we rightly ask the people to make. It doesn't really make any sense. Therefore, it is also difficult to explain in the world outside Slotsholmen that this is how it should be. So we think it is a good motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party and therefore we support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402132918	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no desire for short remarks. I do not see any rapporteur from the alternative, but I do see Mr. Sikandar Siddique, a privateist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402132937	I would like to start by thanking the Minister and the government for standing up for the international rules and obligations we welcome. Secondly, I would like to say that it is sad, really sad, so the proposal is really sad. And it is not only sad because it is unsolidarous, it is not only sad because it is inhumane, and it is not only sad because, in a time of crisis, one of the weakest groups is once again being targeted, but it is also sad because the proposal will be included in the history books, in the history of Denmark, as one of the proposals that divided the cohesion of the Coronapandemic in Denmark. It will be written into the history books as one of the proposals that caused us in the Folketing to be divided and to show irresponsibility, as the people just wanted us to be responsible during this crisis. When we tell the Danes out there that you have to take responsibility and say that you have to make sure that, even if you want to meet with the family, you are careful, and that you have to stop gathering more than ten, then that must also apply to us legislators. And when we have seen seven people, seven asylum seekers since we have introduced border controls, I sincerely believe that it is irresponsible that we now potentially, in theory, expose a lot of cops in here and also us politicians in here to coronasmitte, because we have to be in here instead of being at home with our family and our loved ones. So, frankly, I think that this is a sad proposal, because in addition to trying to sneak foreign policy through the back door, that is to say to abuse the Corona situation, it is also sad because I feel that this proposal and the proposal on punishment, in which foreigners have also been expelled, destroys the peace of the castle that has existed so far and destroys our ability to act as responsible politicians towards Denmark in a time of crisis. So the free green non-attached Members cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402133242	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And I shall now give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402133303	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the rapporteurs for their comments. First of all, I would also like to thank the Danish Parliament and the President and the Bureau of the Danish Parliament for the fact that we could have this debate at all. We have tried to get the government to talk about this discussion, as we think it has been wrong that asylum seekers could just get in at a time when other foreigners could not get in. That is why we think it is good that we can have the debate on this in Parliament and hear where the parties actually stand in this debate. We also think, as other rapporteurs have said, that it is important that, in a time of crisis, we stand together and support the government's urgent legislation in the fight to contain the spread of the corona virus with all the negative consequences it has for society both for health and for the economy. However, it is important that we in the Danish Parliament should be able to have a debate with the government and that we also have parliamentary control over the government, and that there should be a particular opposition party, because there should be an opposition to a government. We can table a motion for a resolution on an important topical subject, which I also know is of concern to many Danes, and where it is necessary to act quickly and preventively, because much of what we do in the Danish Parliament is precisely intended to secure against a situation which will come in a few weeks' time when we expect the coronasmit to be at its highest. That is why, of course, I also hope that a second reading of this proposal and a vote will be possible as soon as possible, because then it will have to be seen where the parties stand. We hope that it can come to the next meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly, and if it is not today and it does not look like next week or after Easter. Our approach to this is that the government must act, must ensure that the right initiatives are taken. And when the Danes accept very far-reaching interference in the daily life that we have and loyally follow what the government and the authorities prescribe to avoid spreading infection, then it is important that we get all the way around. And when the Folketing decides to allocate billions of dollars to aid packages to mitigate the worst consequences of the corona crisis for society, it does not really make sense that our borders are not effectively closed to new carriers. Now this is about asylum seekers, but it might as well be foreign workers if that was where you had to discover that there was a challenge; then we also had to discuss it in the Folketing. Then it has been mentioned in the debate here that the number of asylum seekers is relatively low, and that is quite right. The number of asylum seekers has fallen sharply since the border was closed on 14 March at 2 p.m. 12. Some 25 asylum seekers have been registered in Denmark, and that is good, we think it is such a relatively low figure, but it is 25 asylum seekers and potential carriers of infection too much. The figure also shows that border closures have a major preventive effect, and we can also use this in other contexts, i.e. that border controls work. It works in relation to many things, including the prices of drugs, by the fact that it is difficult to get drugs in at the moment; we see that. So border controls work, but the challenge is in relation to asylum seekers, because when you take asylum seekers across the border, you carry them by car to the accommodation centre, which is Centre Sandholm, and both the staff of the reception centres and those who transport, but also the healthcare staff, are thus exposed to the risk of infection. After all, it has happened that the Dublin Regulation has actually been put out of effect as it is at the moment. Asylum seekers can no longer be returned to the first safe European country from which they originally came, as a number of countries have closed their asylum systems due to the corona crisis. Dublin cooperation means that asylum seekers must be able to return to the first safe country. We are not doing so at the moment, and neither can we in the foreseeable future. Every country is now struggling to get rid of this corona virus first and foremost in their own country. And, of course, everyone has their own people as their first priority. Yes, the European Union is talking a little bit back and forth, but the reality is that the European Union has not shown due diligence, and that is why we think of ourselves as a country and its own citizens before possibly offering aid to European neighbouring countries that are more affected than ourselves. It is clear that this can be discussed, and we are discussing it at the moment. We are assessing whether we can help the severely affected Italian population without endangering our own security, but it is with the sign that we will not put our own security at risk. First and foremost, we must help citizens in Denmark. Then I have noticed here during the debate that there have been a bit of bushy words in relation to the Danish People's Party. Sir. Søren Søndergaard was perhaps at the forefront with some adjectives and the comparison with almost Nazism and the 1930s, no, it was not, but that is how I heard it. It may well be that we can take this very nice, fine discussion that we often have in the Folketing. I will now choose to say that it is true that the Danish People's Party wants an asylum freeze, but this proposal is actually about a very topical critical situation for the Danish population, where we want to protect Danish society from all new carriers entering our society. That is why we also have this border control, which I have mentioned. Although it is gratifying that the number of asylum seekers has fallen significantly since the closure of the border here in March, we have seen before when it comes to asylum seekers and the number that this figure can develop for various reasons over which we are not always master. Therefore, it is also that we need to do the right thing. In the worst case scenario, we risk losing our efforts if we do not get this right, and that is why we need to go all the way around, not just to deal with the areas that the government has already dealt with in depth. I would remind you that the Danish People's Party, together with the Left and New Citizens' Party, just before the crisis started, had called the Prime Minister for an urgent debate on this very critical situation at the borders of Greece, after Turkey's President Erdogan had announced that he would now send hundreds of thousands, soon millions of refugees, as he said, up through Europe, contrary to the agreement with the European Union. Fortunately, the Greeks held such a good standing, and then the corona crisis came. This means that the violent struggles that were seen were stopped and some hotspot camps were set up for refugees at the border. The number entering the European countries in that account was not as great as one might have feared. So it looks like this corona virus has temporarily put an end to very violent flows of refugees into European countries right now. But refugees are still coming to Europe. The Turkish authorities have estimated that these are more than 150,000 refugees since February, and everyone is in a situation where they are transporting themselves through a number of countries, for example, if they do so. should show up in Denmark, and those countries are significantly harder hit by corona than Denmark is, as it is right now, fortunately for Denmark. But that simply means that asylum seekers, who often do not say which countries they have been through, have thrown their passports away, etc., will be a risk of infection, whether you like it or not. That is why the pressure from asylum seekers and migrants on Denmark's border is unpredictable. That is why we have border controls, and that is why the Danish People's Party believes that we should take the necessary measures before the situation gets out of control. There is therefore a need to exercise due care and care for Denmark and the Danes in the international crisis situation, and we therefore appeal to the government to sort out the current problems, which I have mentioned at some times, and to ensure an asylum stop, so that people on the border stop and accommodate those who instead of taking them all the way through Denmark. And then you should listen to it, at least some parties, and to them I thank you for the way in which the proposal has been dealt with. So the New Civil, Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party have a desire, namely to do something now and here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402134338	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Nils Sjøberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402134343	Thank you. First: Great respect for the Danish population, which makes great sacrifices. There is no doubt that a large part of the population does. That is why we also agree that the limit should be closed down to the extent recommended by the health authorities. We are in complete agreement on this. But I also note that the rapporteur points out that a large part of the cause of this virus is that people come from third world countries and seek asylum here in Denmark. And I really want to confirm this is the assumption made by the rapporteur when we all know that it is very much about people being in Italy, Austria and to some extent in China; that this is where the infection comes from; it is not from third world countries. So it was not a question of saying: in this context, we must leave our overall political views on where the Danish People's Party stands in their view when it comes to refugees and coronavirus being two different things and respecting that we are facing a crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20200402134456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402134458	So, I do not think that the radical rapporteur has heard what I said, because I did not say that much of the infection coming to Denmark comes from asylum seekers and migrants, if that is what anyone should have heard. No, I didn't say that, and I don't think we have any evidence to say that either. We have evidence that there are asylum seekers, for example. in Germany, which has been highly infected with corona, and there have been challenges with that. So there is actually enough evidence that there is a challenge. But it is quite right, as the radical rapporteur says here, that the infection we have seen in Denmark can come from a great many places. It may also come from the fact that there are Danes who have been on a ski trip to Austria or Italy....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It's not different. But all we have to do is look all the way around, and there is no point in us, for politically correct, radical reasons, if you like, just as we look away from asylum seekers. I really think that the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dahl, said it very nicely: why not do something about the group that can just come in as it is today, that is asylum seekers why not?
ParlaMint-DK_20200402134618	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402134620	Thank you. First of all, I would like to welcome the fact that the Danish People's Party recognises and respects the fact that the large part of the virus we have received in Denmark is not linked to the asylum seekers we have. Then there is another question to which I would like an answer, following on from the speech made by the rapporteur. These are the views of the rapporteur in relation to the European Union. As I understood it, it could in any case be interpreted as such, and I would only like to welcome the fact that the rapporteur sees the need for European cooperation to be strengthened and improved, even in such a context as this one.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402134656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402134657	Well, I have, I must say, neither. I have no evidence to say exactly how the infection has come to Denmark, but it is here and it is in all European countries. And it can also come from migrants and asylum seekers, especially if there is someone here who is being treated in a way that does not face the facts, namely that it can come from anywhere. Everyone must acknowledge this, even the Swedes must acknowledge it now. As far as European cooperation is concerned, I think that one thing we have learned from the crisis is that the European Union has not answered for us in Denmark or for the other countries. The European Union has been totally paralysed in this crisis, unfortunately. That is why the countries need to use the means that they can now find their own way of using, and that applies among other things. border controls. Whether you like it or not, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402134747	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402134804	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. When there is a need for Parliament to meet again, Members will be informed accordingly.
