ParlaMint-DK_20200220100010	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for the Environment (Lea Wermelin): Bill no. L 112 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Sten Knuth (RV) and Kim Valentin (V): Request no. F 45 (What will the government do to ensure that e-sports is better recognised, that more e-sporters join the associations and that the legal certainty of the practitioners is strengthened, and will the government, in its efforts, base itself on the previous government's national strategy for e-sports and the e-sports panel's mission?). Liselott Blix (DF) and Karina Adsbøl (DF): Request no. F 46 (Will the government take action to ensure that elderly people with poor health are guaranteed patient safety, quality and prevention in the necessary foot care under extended health supplements, and will the government, including strengthening the link between the requirements for patient safety in foot care, cf. the health law, and the rules on extended health allowance for foot treatment, cf. Social Pension Act?). Mort Messerschmidt (DF) and Peter Skaarup (DF): Request no. F 47 (what national or international initiatives will the government take to limit or counter judicial activity by the European Court of Human Rights?). Henrik Dahl (LA) and Alex Vanopslagh (LA): Request no. F 48 (What can the Minister say about the government's plans for securing the university and other higher education institutions as the institutions that contain the free and critical thought, and that the very idea of the university and other higher education institutions is not being suppressed by identity policy trends?). Pernille Vermund (NB) and others: Question No. F 49 (Will the government explain why it considers the integration of foreigners into Danish society to be a public task to be financed by tax collected funds, rather than considering integration as a personal responsibility of the individual immigrant and thus not a burden on the public economy?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20200220100116	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220100142	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220100154	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 73 (S, V, RV and KF) voted against 36 (DF, SF, EL, ALT, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220100220	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220100237	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 108 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220100309	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220100320	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 109 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220100351	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Andreas Steenberg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220100404	As the sharp observers who are in this Chamber will certainly note, I am not Mrs Katrine Robsøe, who has been our rapporteur on this matter. She's on mission with Parliament abroad, so I have to tell you that the Radical Left is voting against this bill after it's been split. The reason I have just taken the floor is that we are now in a situation where this bill contains two parts. The Radical Left is in favour of one but against the other. That is why, from a global point of view, we are choosing to vote 'no'. We are in favour of the Minister of Business being able to grant a derogation so that a municipality can build where there are smell genes in advance. It is especially Aarhus Municipality that has been the subject of discussion here, because in Aarhus you want to build on the harbour, where there is an oil mill that sometimes smells. We would like to contribute to the granting of a derogation and support that part of the legislative proposal. On the other hand, we have always opposed the possibility of building in the coastal zone around Denmark. This is the second part of the draft law which will extend the number of years that you have to build the experimental projects. We are against this, and we are more important than giving this derogation, and that is why we are voting against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220100527	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220100536	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 80 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 30 (RV, SF, EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220100600	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Jacob Mark, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220100613	It's nice to be a member of parliament, especially on a day like today, when we have a lot to celebrate, for example. What is to happen now, when we are abolishing the ceiling on education. Typically, when you celebrate things, you tend to quote wiser people than you, great people who in the past have meant many things and who have had many wise considerations about life. I should also like to quote one such person, Mr President, on this occasion, which is very welcome. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. On the day of the adoption of the education ceiling, he said something with which I fully agree. He said: "One thing that is clear is that change is the only constant. So the idea that you get a given education, and then you do with it for the rest of your life, is probably a thing of the past. ▪ I think that was a very, very wise consideration about education and how we should organize our society. I believe that we will have a more changing society where we must be able to go out and work and quickly return to either continuing training or new training if we find that we have not come to the right place. I think we are going to work a little less and train ourselves a little more, and I think we will need to create a more flexible labour market where education and work merge more together. The training ceiling has therefore also been an educational problem from the outset, which is why it has also met with very great opposition in large parts of the Danish population. It does not make sense at a time when we need teachers, that a social worker who finds out that she or he would like to spend her time with children who are going to become smarter cannot be allowed to become a teacher. It does not make sense at a time when we lack educators that a person who has studied pedagogy at Aarhus University cannot become an educator because they are affected by the educational ceiling. There is no logic in people who, through their education, have found out that they have chosen wrong in the first place, and have become wiser, should not be able to choose another education. That is why I am very pleased that we are now abolishing the training ceiling by a majority of the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you to the many people who have helped to fight it from the start. I hope that the Left will do what they said in the election campaign that they wanted, namely abolish the education ceiling when they get the opportunity. So far, they have announced that they will vote yellow. I hope that they will listen to the giant of a politician who said that change is the only constant and that we will need to educate ourselves throughout our lives, Mr President. Lars Løkke Rasmussen creates an education system where you can train your entire life. And then I hope that they will give young people in educational establishments the certainty that the ceiling on education is a thing of the past and that the ceiling on education, regardless of who is in government, will not come back in future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220100918	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then Sofie Carsten Nielsen has asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220100925	Thank you. I have asked for the floor because it really is a great day for me too. Thank you for your speech to Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark. I thought it was really nice to refer to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who just said this, for he presented this so-called Disruption Council to look at how the future is shaping and how we organize this society, so that everyone has opportunities in it, and so that many more will have more opportunities to unfold their lives and have a better life in Denmark. And if that's not the purpose of what we're doing in here, then what is? But another reason why I would also like to come up here is actually that I would like to acknowledge that we in the Folketing can admit errors. A majority now admits at least part of it that it was a mistake to introduce this training ceiling, and I think that is huge. And I think it's big that we can have the debates. There's also been a citizen's proposal about this educational ceiling. It didn't come through, but dear all of you who put it: Look where we've reached. It means something to keep going. I was on the platform when the educational ceiling was introduced. It was adopted by a third reading of another law via a remark, and there were very many of you who had not even discovered that it had been introduced, including some of you from the parties that were for. At that time it was quite impossible for journalists to take an interest in it, because it was not a Christiansborg case. But out there, where it made a difference to the young, the young found it well. And their parents realized that this set off something completely wrong on the heads of their children. It took a few months before it became a debate in here four years ago, but it was much more important than what was thought in here. It is just a realization and a learning that we must take, and we must all be more capable of thinking about what importance it has to remember to listen to those on whom a law will have an impact. Now we're abolishing this educational ceiling. That is good, because in the future we should not have a ceiling on education. It must be the case that we all have better access to education throughout our lives. So it's a really good day today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220101156	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. There are no brief comments, and Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220101206	It is really, really important that we all have the opportunity to get the education we need in the course of a full working life. One of the things I hope we can gain access to in the light of the debate we have had on this proposal is to look at how we ensure, as Mr. Jacob Mark has just said that when you need new education during your life, you can get more education and the education you need in order to be able to contribute to working life, which we all want and which we all want is possible. We have become wiser in the process that has been going on. When we adopted this proposal at the time, it was about finding revenue in relation to something about the daily allowance, and that was actually the focus. I do not think anyone had imagined that it had the huge effect on really, very many students who had the experience that they could now no longer get the education they needed. Then you can always discuss how many or how few people it was that it was actually affected, but it has had an impact on the mental attitude towards taking an education, and it is shameful. That is why I hope that when we adopt this proposal today, we will also send a signal that it must be possible to have the necessary training during our working life, not that one necessarily has to take one, two or three courses after each other, but that one should very much be allowed to take an education, go out and use it and find out that one needs something more, and then come back and take it. That is why, of course, we in the Danish People's Party are taking part in adopting the proposal here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220101334	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and then it is Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220101346	Thank you so much. Today is a good day, because we are going to get rid of this ceiling on education. This is one of the things in which I personally as a schoolteacher was also thinking when it was introduced: God, how strange it is to introduce a ceiling on the fact that young people can take an education, get out to work and perhaps later in life find out that it was the wrong way to go, that one would rather another way, and then one cannot. I think it makes great sense for us to remove this educational ceiling, because it makes sense for us to be smarter, it makes great sense for us to be able to change paths during our lives, and it makes very good sense that when we are young we should not already make a decision for our whole life, because there are so many things that can change. So it is a good day today when we are abolishing this educational ceiling, and of course we support that too in the new citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220101440	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220101447	Thanks for the speech. I agree with much of what has been said, but I am still a little curious because, as I understand New Citizens, you want a very, very small public sector and massive tax cuts, and if you do not even want to save here, I will be a little interested to hear where it is then you intend to save on the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220101501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220101507	Thank you for the question. In new citizens, we are certainly in favour of a smaller public sector. In other words, we are also in favour of negative growth in the public sector. We have been quite clear about this from the outset. We do not think that savings should be made in this area because it makes no sense to put a lid on where people can change their minds. Because you can still be for the benefit of the labour market, even if you have taken an education and later in life find out that you would rather go another way. We would much rather look at many other different things. We would like to look at how general savings can be made on public administration. We want to look at how to make things smarter and smarter. That is our policy. We have put that forward from the outset.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220101541	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220101545	I'm in on where you don't want to save. It was more where you wanted It is simply so easy to say administration, for who can be against saving on any administration? But more specifically, what are some major welfare areas New Citizens think we should cut back on if we are going to cut down on these very low taxes that we think voters can achieve if we vote for New Citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220101604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220101607	It is always nice to get such questions from such a typical system party, which has been sitting in here for extremely many years, and which is very locked in some solid box thinking. This is, after all, about how we want to focus on core welfare, we want to focus on warm hands. That's what the money's gonna do. The money should not go to administration and bureaucracy, and we have been very honest about this from the start. We want a significantly smaller public sector. But it is not about cutting down on warm hands; it is, in general, about cutting down on administration and bureaucracy. It makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220101640	Then I can see that mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220101643	It was only if the rapporteur can confirm that more than 11 billion are being spent. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. kr. on Denmark's Radio, whether the rapporteur can confirm that 13 billion are being spent. kr. at the job centres, which do not give any value either, and that in the last period from 2015 to 2019 approximately 2.5 billion were paid. kr. more in here from the Folketing and out to the municipalities, which then spent 435 million. kr. of them at central administration and management in the municipalities. Can the rapporteur confirm that there are plenty of specific places where money can be taken from?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220101711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220101713	Yes, I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220101719	I guess no one else has asked for short remarks. Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220101729	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 76 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT, NB and LA) voted against 8 (KF), abstained 25 (V). The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220101803	We're gonna have a little quiet in the hall. We are still in the process of voting. Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220101818	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (RV, EL, ALT and IA), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 30 (RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 80 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. We'll take a little break before we start the question debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220102034	I think that by being ready for the question debate. The technique seems to be in place. I would point out that any votes on proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 25 February. We start with the reasons for the question. This is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Bjerre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220102120	It is a great pleasure that the majority of Parliament's parties are behind this inquiry debate. That is because the majority shows that Denmark is ready for an ambitious climate policy. The crux of the matter is that climate change is not waiting for social democracy. Climate change is not waiting for reports and explanations or commissions and partnerships. We simply have to act as we devise the solutions. We have to build the bridge while we drive on it, because the climate isn't standing still. This question debate has come in the wake of the somewhat chaotic course we had in the autumn when we negotiated the incorporation requirement. The process was unsightly, and the result of the process unambitious; unsightly, because during the process the minister gave us inadequate information about how much advanced biofuels the Danish market could deliver; and unambitious, because the government would only look at the year 2020. They would only look at what the requirement for incorporation should look like when 2020 becomes 2021. Will there be a good answer, perhaps even a good solution tomorrow? As the Left sees it, the climate deserves better than what we achieved together in the autumn. The Danish companies deserve better, just as the Danish consumers deserve better. If Denmark is really to succeed in the green transition, then it requires that Danish companies and consumers know what they can expect. The industry and the transport sector cannot contribute to the green transition if they do not know what rules and requirements they have to adapt to. We need a long-term strategy and action plan for alternative fuels. So far, we have seen nothing from the government. Will the government, for example? make a plan for the incorporation requirement up to 2030? Or could it be imagined that the government will set up the legislation in such a way that it will be more advantageous to use green propellants? If, now, the transport sector could carry out the green transition more quickly by perhaps obtaining some tax advantages, is that something the government is willing to look at? I hope, of course, that we can get some answers to some of those questions today. For although the government seems to be very much behind schedule at both climate level and green transition, unfortunately it seems that the government lacks the right working attitude. This means that the climate will have to wait; just as it means that the transport sector will have to wait. Without the prospect of concrete solutions, uncertainty prevails. When uncertainty prevails, the green transition is delayed. Minister, does the government not soon come up with concrete proposals and long-term solutions? Finally, the Minister must not forget that he has a majority of rapporteurs here today who support this debate and are ready to save the climate and ready to discuss solutions. Above all, however, there is a majority that is ready to act now. I look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220102437	Thank you. Then we need the answer from the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220102449	Thank you for the floor. Today, the transport sector accounts for more than a quarter of Denmark's total greenhouse gas emissions, and the share is increasing. With the December Climate Act agreement, most of us have committed us to reducing Denmark's emissions by 70%. in 2030. Such a massive reduction in emissions in Denmark can only be achieved if we reduce in all sectors. The transport sector is no exception. Here too, there must be significant reductions. The task is urgent. Emissions from the transport sector are increasing because we are running more and more. This development must not be reversed by limiting mobility, but by moving the transport sector away from fossil fuels and on to alternative ones. That is why I am very pleased that you have wanted to discuss this transition to alternative fuels here today. The government is already in full swing with the green agenda. This also applies, of course, to transport. First of all, we have made a historically green financial law. With the Finance Act, we have not only secured calm on car taxes for green cars by 2020, we have also introduced a deduction on green company cars and set aside 75 million. kr. for a pool for green buses. The Finance Act provided additional funding for demonstration projects for the production of green fuels on green electricity. In addition, the Danish Energy Agency has provided support for two power-to-x projects that hopefully can help support the green transition of particularly heavy transport and aviation on the longer track. However, the climate challenge of the transport sector cannot be solved by a snapshot solution, nor can it be solved by us politicians alone. It must be solved in interaction between business, Danes and interest organisations. That is why I am particularly pleased that we have concluded 13 climate partnerships with Denmark's business community; three of them focus solely on the transport sector. Once we have partnered with the business community, it is because we want to bring together all the good forces to solve the great challenge we face. I am very confident that the industry also takes its share of responsibility for this and that they point to ambitious measures that can significantly reduce the emissions of the transport sector. It does not stop with a green finance law or 13 climate partnerships. We've only just taken the first steps or drove the first kilometers, if you like. In a short time, we will continue to work for a greener transport sector when next week I meet with the energy reconciliation circle for negotiations on the issue of the green transport pool, which was set aside with the Energy Agreement in 2018. Here I look forward to discussing how, among other things, we can support the spread of charging stations across the country and how we can promote the green transition of heavy transport. In March, climate partnerships will present their recommendations for measures to reduce emissions; recommendations that the government will take into account in further work on the climate action plans. I am, of course, looking forward to the recommendations of the Commission for the green conversion of passenger cars, which will have to come up with proposals for the setting-up of the car tax system that promotes green cars. I am sure that their recommendations will also help us on the way. In December, we established the framework for climate policy with the agreement on the Climate Act, where we legalise the objective of reducing Denmark's emissions by 70%. in 2030. In 2020, we are laying the trails for a climate policy that points forward many years. As in the agreement with the Climate Act, we need to create a sectoral strategy for the transformation of the transport sector. It must set the framework for ensuring significant reductions in the transport sector, and it must point out the concrete means of promoting the necessary transformation of the sector. Here we address a number of important questions, such as how to get more electric cars out faster on the Danish roads, how to switch heavy transport and how to ensure that fossil cars still run by 2030 are greener by using alternative fuels. Let me focus on the last point: how to promote the use of non-fossil fuels. This is both important because part of the heavy transport cannot be electrified immediately, and it is important because traditional passenger cars will still be running around for a long time to come. Today, alternative fuels are promoted, among other things, through mixing requirements. The tracks are still frightening from autumn debates, when we were pressed to increase the incorporation requirement by the eleventh hour to ensure that we complied with our commitments to the European Union. In order to prevent this from happening again, it is absolutely essential that we put together a longer-term strategy on the role of alternative fuels in the green transition of the transport sector. In the conciliation circle we have given each other a hand to explore the possibility of making a regulation focusing on CO2 I am open to finding a more appropriate way of regulating the area than we have done so far. How we best shape the concrete regulation is part of the great work that has been undertaken with the climate action plans. No matter how we turn it, Denmark cannot run the transition alone. If we are really to speed up the transition, we must also bring the European Union with us. Therefore, the government has brought together a coalition of like-minded countries with a call to the European Commission to present a plan for phasing out black cars across the EU. It's not the color of black cars, but cars driven by fossil fuels, after all. We have clearly announced that we in Denmark want full stop sales of all new diesel and petrol cars from 2030. It will also be necessary to make ever stronger demands on producers to support a European infrastructure that allows alternative fuels. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that I am very much looking forward to a constructive debate on the long-term strategy for the transformation of the transport sector from black to green fuels. And I look forward to getting your input on how you would like to see the green transport sector of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220103052	Then there is a brief comment from the rapporteurs. It's first, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220103103	Thank you. I recognise that there is a group of experts working on this. That is why there are also some things that we would like to wait for from the expert group. However, just as agreements can be made on a climate law which has a goal of reducing emissions of climate gases by 70%, without really knowing how to get there, one could also have an objective for the green transport area that in future green transport should not be a tax cow, should not be a tax element, should not be financing everything possible. For transport is actually a good thing, and it is therefore not something that we should tax, as if it is something that is harmful to society, not at all when it turns green. We're not gonna get this extra tax on transport. Then we will have to find out later how to achieve the objective of how to stop taxing transport as if it were harmful to society. Why will the government not now go out and say that it does not want to tax green transport?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220103201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220103204	I actually think we've been pretty clear in our communication. At any rate, I have said several times, and only in the speech I have just given, that this is not really about restricting mobility. This is about reducing pollution. That is why it is also clear that the tax system that needs to be combined in the future must take that into account. What is, of course, a very great challenge is that we have created a tax system in which we have, in a sensible way, taxed some of what we want to limit, namely fossil fuels. In a situation where we then move away from fossil fuels, we get a lot of benefits, but we face the additional challenge that we then lack a revenue, and since we have a welfare state to be financed, we often have discussions about that in this Chamber, you have to find an alternative to it. I think I accept the premise of the questioner and I would also say that this is actually something that we are quite aware of.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220103257	Then it's Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220103300	When we negotiated the incorporation requirement in the autumn, it was only for 2020, and the limbo in which the incorporation requirement stands right now has created great uncertainty for the industry. I would therefore like to hear whether the Minister agrees that what happened in the autumn is an example of how this should not happen and also how it should not happen when we are going to discuss it in the negotiations on what will then apply after 2020. Does the Minister agree that we are not going to the autumn of this year before we have to negotiate what will happen next year, but that we can start those discussions now? And does the Minister also agree that it is urgent to start negotiations on what the incorporation requirement should be after 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220103343	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220103346	Now was the reason why we had to make a decision so quickly, yes, that this was a requirement that was valid for one year. We will not be in that situation again. But what I think we can agree on is that we need a longer-term strategy. Because the fact that we had to take decisions of the kind we unfortunately had to take in December is not a good thing. However, I may think that the questioner also owes it in his opening remarks to explain why we were in that situation. I am sure that the course of negotiations that took place in December could have been better organised. I should like to take part in the blame for this, but when we had the problem at all, it was because the previous government had dishonestly done nothing in this area. After all, there was no great plan for how to solve the task that would have been done over the next four years if the elections had been won. But if there was a plan for it, I'd like to hear about it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220103441	Then it's Mrs. Ida Auken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220103446	Thank you. If we are to avoid ending up in such a situation again, it would be very good to get the negotiations started as soon as possible. Can the Minister here today promise us that we will be called for negotiations at the latest before the summer holiday, but more quickly?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220103500	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220103503	As I said, there's a part of this that's already going on. The Radical Left itself helped to create a green finance law, such as: is green because of the measures that are in the transport sector. Next week, in the conciliation circle, we will be negotiating the green transport pool. And, of course, there will also be much more extensive negotiations later. I believe, and I think everyone agrees, that we must have input from the climate partnerships, but, of course, also, which is perhaps most important, the recommendations of the car commission, which I also think the bourgeois side of the House will agree with, since they themselves set up that commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220103546	Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220103549	Thank you, sir. President. I took note of what the Minister mentioned in his introduction. It was in the discussion about the government's announcement about phasing out and banning the sale of new diesel cars from, for example, 2030. You can have a lot of opinions about that. I think we should perhaps consider looking at the development of particle emissions in the last 10 years and so on. from diesel cars, how much good has actually happened in the 10 years, and how much good could actually happen or will happen until 2030, if you are allowed to develop particulate filter systems etc. also on diesel cars. Because it has actually been shown that one has really been able to deliver much, much less emissions on the same number of kilometres driven, even where the cars are running longer on the liter. This brings me to the point and the announcement has come, and we also respect that to say that I think the Minister should also tell us something about the government's view of how to roll out the entire transport infrastructure in relation to charging stations, hydrogen stations, etc., because you cannot ban anything without putting something else in perspective.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220103655	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220103658	I think it is important that, in these situations, we distinguish between CO2 both of which are important, but of course these are two, albeit coherent, different discussions as well. It is clear, and I very much agree with the questioner, that this is also linked to the general infrastructure debate in our country. That goes without saying. What I can say in this connection is that, as the previous government did, this government is not going to present very large infrastructure plans without having calculated at all on CO2 that goes without saying. We cannot make policy in this area without knowing what the consequences are of the decisions we are making. So I can assure you that it is also focused when we look at how to achieve our 2030 target.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220103749	Then it's mr. Henning Hyllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220103757	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen and the Minister had an exchange on the Eldrupkommissionen. I consider this to be perhaps one of the most important proposals that will come in connection with the green transition of the transport sector and the green conversion of the car park. That's why it's of course exciting what the Eldrup Commission is bringing in. So I would like to ask at the outset: in the understanding paper we made in its time, we moved the reporting forward. Is it still keeping away? It is also part of the discussion: are we getting started? This is so important. I have no doubt for a moment that the Eldrup Commission must come up with some kind of proposal on road tolls, road pricing. That is why, as the Enhedslisten said, why do we not just start preparing it now in the form of an experimental scheme? It was proposed at the time by the Tribulation Commission, but it was poured off the board by virtually all parties except Enhedslisten. But why don't we start preparing for it now? There have also been moves in the past to do so in an earlier agreement with the previous government, so I would like to hear a little bit about what has been done about considerations there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220103900	Thank you! The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220103903	Yes, it is true that the understanding paper says that we must look at whether it can be moved forward. As far as I understand, that dialogue is also taking place with the committee, that is to say that we must have the conclusion as early as possible. I do not know, I can honestly say exactly where it is now, but perhaps we can return to that in writing afterwards. I think it has to be said that we are so close now, after all, that starting to set things under way before, in a limited number of months' time, no matter how it ends with the exact date of publication, a report will be a little strange. So we're awaiting the report we get from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220103939	Then it's Mrs. Signe Munk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220103943	In a long-term plan for CO2 There's the electrification and everything that can come on batteries, and then there's the part that's about what we can mix in the tank and how we can displace CO2 compared to getting this process started with the delayed process from last year in the back of the head, the minister can then confirm that in relation to a long-term strategy for CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20200220104024	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220104026	I think I'm almost going to have to repeat what I've got. Well, we're on it. The things we helped to get on the table in the Finance Act are part of this. What we're going to start negotiating next week is part of this. It is, of course, true that the very big things that relate to the tax part, if we are to change the law on the incorporation requirement, we will take all those things at a later stage as part of the larger overall plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220104102	Then it's mr. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220104106	Thank you. I would like to hear from the Minister whether we would like to have an agreement with the European Union on banning petrol and diesel cars after 2030, and whether the Minister believes that it will be easy if we go alone in Denmark in this area. Or was it that it would be desirable for the government and the minister to help us find some footprints on bioethanol and biofuels in general in order to displace CO2 2 It is also in the light of the fact that it will probably be difficult to get the European Union to join by 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220104152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220104155	At this stage, it is true that if we decided in Denmark to say that new petrol and diesel vehicles were not to be placed on the street, it would actually be contrary to EU legislation, so we cannot of course do that. That is also why, when the questioner suggests that we should go alone, I would like to stress that we are not going to do so. Because we do not want to break EU law • it is clear in the area in question, just as we do not in other areas. That is why we have set up a coalition with a number of countries which actually think the same as us and which try in various ways to influence the EU process by letters with several signatories to the Commission, and we go through the European Parliament and so on. Whether this leads to saying that we should do this at European level is the question. That is the ambition, and it is not certain that we can get through with it, but at least it must be possible, even with the ambitions of the European Commission, for individual countries to be given the opportunity to take the lead if they want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220104256	We thank the Minister, at least this time. We shall now proceed to the debate, and this will also apply to the general rules for short remarks. The first of the debate is the rapporteur of the questions, Mrs Bjerre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220104323	Thank you to the Minister for the speech and thank you for the explanations. But while the explanations and ambitions are good, they are not worth much, as we have not learned more about the green transition in general and the mixing requirement in particular. I think I can also speak on behalf of other parties who are here today simply misses the Minister taking an initiative and calling for some negotiations, preferably soon and before the summer break. Already in the autumn, when we negotiated the incorporation requirement for 2020, the Left called on the government to convene parallel negotiations. It is actually back in October that we made that call. What we want to negotiate is then, as now, a long-term plan for alternative fuels. In fact, we repeated our call in the report that was presented when we dealt with the legislative proposal on the incorporation requirement last December. Now we are soon in March and we still do not know what the demand will look like when 2020 goes on. We do not want to end up in the same situation this autumn. One month before the turn of the year, fuel suppliers actually did not know the mixing requirement for 2020, and there is now again uncertainty about 2021. Fuel suppliers conclude long-term contracts, prepare and conclude contracts in good time. The inclusion requirement or CO2 Jo, I heard what the Minister said in his speech, just as the Left knows that the government is very ambitious when it comes to climate policy, but quite frankly: Ambitions without action are like cars without fuel. And neither does social democracy. I also recognise what the Minister said about the fact that we cannot solve the climate challenges with snapshot solutions, but we cannot solve the climate challenges either by not having long-term solutions or by not doing anything, by not starting real negotiations and not even discussing them. The Left would like to enter into negotiations that ensure that we know what applies after 2020 to alternative propellants. We would like to have an incorporation requirement at 2020 level and requirements for advanced biofuels. We want to get it in place as soon as possible, and we want to make sure that we do not have the same uncertainty about 2022 in a year's time. I would like to repeat some of the most important points here. Firstly, it is crucial that we now find out what the incorporation requirement for 2021 should look like. No one, as in absolutely none, can be served by a course of negotiations such as the one we saw in the autumn of last year. It was simply unsatisfactory. We will not be in that situation again in the coming autumn. After all, that is why we have called this debate. Secondly, we need to start parallel negotiations now, because, as I said earlier, climate change is not waiting for the Social Democrats to take the initiative. We have to build the climate bridge while we drive on it. Thirdly, it would be nice if the initiatives could become so concrete that there would actually be something to talk about with the government, not least some more long-term solutions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220104656	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220104659	Thank you. After all, we have been in government together..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Throughout government cooperation we have promoted the agenda that we should stop overtaxing transport, especially when it is green. Thus, two flies can fight with one stone: we can drive the green transition faster, and we can over time, as the green transition takes place, get the overtaxation of transport in Denmark down or away. Has the Left changed its mind since when we were in government? Does the Left now think that we can tackle green transport tax-free instead of green transport being phased into the ordinary tax system for transport, where there is an overtaxation of transport?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220104802	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220104804	Thank you for those comments, and also many thanks for the opening remarks, which explained what happened in the then government on climate action and for a more green transport, as the rapporteur has a better memory of it, as the rapporteur himself was part of it and I am a newly elected member of the parliament. On green transport, the Left supports the fact that we are in fact continuing the tax exemption on electric cars, not only here in 2020, which fortunately came through with the Finance Act, but we will do so for 2021 as well. We believe it is absolutely crucial that choosing the green mode of transport is more advantageous in tax terms, and right now green modes of transport are just more expensive than fossil modes of transport, so we need to look at the tax, so it is more advantageous to choose those modes of transport in tax terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220104855	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220104857	Yeah, that's the short term. But it should also be our ambition in the long term that when you drive green, you should not be overtaxed in the way you stay today, for example. by phasing in green transport into the general registration tax system or starting taxing the electricity that becomes available to electric cars in a way that corresponds to what electricity is normally taxed for. So does the Left actually take part in spending money from the room for manoeuvre on public finances to free green transport from the overtaxation that takes place if you put green transport under ordinary taxation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220104938	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220104941	There, I think, the rapporteur has some very good ideas about how to look at green transport. It is, of course, extremely complex in fiscal terms and we cannot simply put green transport modes and green transport modes into the current tax system. That is why we have to rethink it completely. And yes, we would like to help look at how we can change the tax system so that it will be more advantageous.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220105004	Then it's mr. Henning Hyllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220105008	I assume that the Left thinks that these so-called climate partnerships are a very good idea. That is why I perhaps do not fully understand the impatience that the rapporteur has expressed: we need to get started and so on. I guess, in respect of the fact that those partnerships have been set up, we have to wait for them to report back. It shouldn't be a secret that we don't actually think it was a clever idea to make those climate partnerships. In any case, we believe that this is precisely what will slow down the process. Surely we could have gone ahead with the negotiations and then we could have been involved. The climate partnerships give the business community first and foremost the opportunity to make their input, and they are already very good at that. We have held a number of conferences in here where business has been very much heard. But there's really, really a lot of other people here, and they're gonna come along in this area and have a lot of suggestions and input for this. They are not quite heard in the same way. But I do not quite understand the impatience of getting started when, at the same time, we recognise that climate partnerships need time to report.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220105112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220105115	We recognise that this is a very, very complex area, that is, all the climate challenges. It was in this way the Left themselves that set up the Green Transport Commission, which will be reporting off this summer. At the same time, however, as the rapporteur also notes, it is therefore urgent that we get the negotiations under way and, although we think it is reasonable that reports and commissions should be awaited and those recommendations taken into account, we do not see any contradiction in the fact that, at the same time, we are starting negotiations on how to achieve a greener Denmark and a greener climate. And specifically with regard to alternative fuels, there is a great deal of urgency. We are in a situation where we do not know what applies to the incorporation requirement for next year, so we cannot understand why we cannot start the negotiations while waiting for the report.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220105202	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220105204	Well then, we are actually quite in agreement, and I also said that, as always, we could have gone ahead with the negotiations and then just waited for either a definite report, or that the business community, as always, had just played in. We also find it urgent to get started, which is why I think it is a little worrying if the rapporteur thinks that what we could then get started was to discuss the incorporation requirement that should apply to 2021. For then, in our opinion, we will be narrowed too much in relation to what the rapporteur also called for in his first speech, namely the need for long-term planning.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220105239	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220105242	It's nice to experience that you agree with Enhedslisten. It is not just for 2021, I think, that we can get the negotiations started now; in fact, it is precisely a long-term strategy for what should apply. Because we are not going to start discussing what will happen next for 2022 in a year's time. We need to have a long-term plan. There are many of these elements in the area of climate change that we can easily begin with in parallel, such as the registration tax on electric cars, which I discussed with Mr. Ole Birk Olesen just before. There, too, we in the Left believe that we can already say that we want to ensure that we have a tax exemption, even in 2021. Right now, we do not actually know what the registration fee is for electric cars because we are waiting for the Transport Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220105319	Thank you. Mrs. Signe Munk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220105321	Thank you to the rapporteur for a good speech, and thank you to the rapporteur for sharing the ambition that the SF also has and also had in the negotiations we had before Christmas, namely that we must have a long-term plan and that we must have looked at the incorporation requirement in one, what can we say, the focus that is about crowding out CO2 Because the truth is that the fuel law we have today is a biofuel law which focuses on the inclusion of some biofuels. Unfortunately, I believe that the situation we are facing today is that the cheapest biofuels are being mixed in the tank and not necessarily what is best for the climate. When we look at the advanced biofuels, which I also understand the rapporteur is concerned about, we can also see that the price is higher there, i.e. they are more expensive. So I would just like to hear: is the Left also willing to accept that it can therefore cost something more to drive your car when you mix something in the tank for the sake of the climate?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220105419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220105421	There were several elements to that question. In relation to the initial with the biofuel law and how it is built, I would say that yes, it is about an incorporation requirement. We in the Left would like to see us talking more about a CO2 2 Fortunately, we do not have that in Denmark anymore, but we would like to have a regulatory framework that actually encourages us to have the most green biofuels on the market. And we would like it to be more hydrogen and more electricity in the future, but right now we also have to recognise that we are in a situation where biofuels are the focus of our attention in the short term. And that is also why we have initiated this debate, in other words in order to clarify the right regulatory framework to ensure that we get the right green biofuels, advanced biofuels. And yes, they are more expensive, and yes, we are willing to prioritise that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220105523	Mrs. Signe Munk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220105526	Thank you for a good reply from the rapporteur. I simply managed to get my hands on it before the rapporteur replied to the last part, which was about also accepting that there will probably be a time horizon where it will then be a little more expensive to have the best possible fuels mixed in the tank for the sake of the climate. But then that payment has to be delivered. And what I hear from the Left is that you are willing to make that priority. And I think that's important to the climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220105548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220105551	Now I could see from the clock that my speaking time was running out when I just got to answer the question at the end. However, in relation to that answer, it is also important for me to say that it should not be more expensive for the Danes, but we are willing to give priority to this and, as our President has said, we are prepared to give priority to financing the green transition from the public space to green transport, and that is going to be expensive, and we must give priority to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220105614	Then it's Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220105619	Then I would just like to understand the rapporteur very precisely. Does this mean that you do not actually mean what you said in your first reply to Mrs Signe Munk, namely that, when you make a demand for better biofuels on the market, you may well risk that it can then become a little more expensive at the other end for customers? Will the Left not accept that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220105642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220105644	I don't quite understand the question. So, does the Radical Left want it to be more expensive for the Danes to choose the green solution? I do not think that sounds very clever for climate change. We want to help use taxes and taxes, but they must be used in such a way as to encourage the choice of green alternatives and the green alternatives must therefore be cheaper, and then black fuels must be more expensive. But overall we do not want to make it more expensive to be a Dane; we think it is expensive enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220105720	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220105722	It is a little bit difficult to understand what the rapporteur of the Left says. In other words, if we are to demand that the fuels to be incorporated should be of a higher quality, then they are more expensive in purchasing. Somebody's gotta pay for that. Should I understand the Left as saying that it is the room for manoeuvre that has to go in and pay the difference that will be if you make a greater demand on what fuels it takes to have a real CO2 or is it a tax system that has to cope with this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220105747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220105749	We have to look at this in the overall debate on the tax system, because it is absolutely crucial for the green transition that we get the taxes. Right now we have a tax system which is not geared to the green transition. I also understand that the Radical Left believes otherwise. However, it is clear that if we look only within the framework of the biofuel law and do not discuss at all that we really want a law on renewable energy, it will be more expensive with biofuels, in particular advanced biofuels, and we will have to find that funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220105820	Thank you, Mrs Bjerre. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we are now moving on in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Paulin, the Social Democrat Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220105836	Thank you. Means of transport are a cornerstone of modern life. Whether it is the bus, the train, the car, the ferry or the plane, these are aids which help to make mobility possible in terms of productivity and, above all, our freedom and opportunities for development as a human being. That is why, in relation to the transport sector and the green transition, the answer is of course not car-free Sundays or rationing marks on petrol. Nevertheless, we know that something very drastic has to be done to change and transform our transport sector, and we know that transport poses a very special challenge as the only sector where CO2 at the same time we must also note that, although there have been good intentions on paper, it has been tricky with action in relation to seriously setting off green transport. We've been talking about this for 10, 15, 20 years, but not enough has happened. With the 70-percent objective, it is no longer possible for us to hide behind the good intentions. Over the next ten years, we will be delivering a very ambitious transformation of the transport sector. At the same time, we must ensure that this happens in a way that does not have a social battle side or knocks the bottom out of the treasury. A large part of the challenges facing the transport sector must be addressed by direct electrification. Therefore, we must ensure good framework conditions for the purchase of electric cars and that the infrastructure can keep up with and bear the increased pull on our electricity grid. But direct electrification is not enough in itself, at least not on this side of 2030 and especially not when we look at the heavy transport. That is why it is crucial that we also move on with the production of green fuels such as advanced biofuels and electrofuels. A wise future regulation must therefore be a regulation that helps to create demand for green fuels, where we are well aware of the technologies we need, but where production needs to be scaled and prepared for a commercial breakthrough. Finally, I would like to read out the following proposals for adoption which, in addition to the Social Democratic Party, are supported by Enhedslisten, SF, Radical Left, Alternative and Left: Proposals for adoption: The Danish Parliament sees the climate challenge as one of the most important and urgent tasks of the time. As the transport sector represents an increasing proportion of Denmark's emissions up to 2030, a strategy for reductions in the sector is needed, among other things by: promoting alternative propellants. Therefore, the Danish Parliament calls on the government to present a long-term plan to secure alternative propellants after 2020 with a focus on CO2 Denmark has the potential to achieve a strength position in the production of green fuels based on green power and CO2 Green fuels are crucial for the heavy part of the transport sector to become climate neutral by 2050. In this context, the Danish Parliament notes that investment aid has been granted to two significant Power-to-X projects. The Government is therefore invited to examine how Denmark can best promote production and demand for green fuels for the benefit of the climate and Danish business community in the context of the Climate Action Plan. V 56).
ParlaMint-DK_20200220110145	Thank you. This is then part of the further debate. There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Marie Bjerre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220110155	Thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the proposal for adoption which the rapporteur read out. In particular, I take note of the wording that says that negotiations will be started before the summer break of 2020. It has thus been the main purpose of this debate to get some negotiations started, so we are very positive about that. Then I also have a question, and this is in fact prompted by the question I had to the Minister, and it may well be that the Social Democrat rapporteur can answer it. In the Left, we do not want us to be in the situation we did in the autumn, that we are again standing there in this autumn, when we do not know what is going on next year. There the Minister replied that we will not find ourselves in the time when what we negotiated in the autumn will only last one year, in other words by 2020. But can the rapporteur say what will apply next year? What does the mixing requirement look like? Is it the same thing that is this year, or are we back to what happened last year? And what about the advanced biofuels? Are we over the 0.9% that the legislation says, or should it be suspended?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220110304	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220110306	If we do nothing else, we will return to the 5.75%, which was also applicable in 2019. So in this way 2020 is an exception year. I am sure that the Minister can help to answer a written question in this area more specifically, including in relation to advanced biofuels, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220110335	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220110337	I just have to understand: does this mean that the Social Democrats believe that we should go back to 5.75%. in 2021, or would you like to negotiate at least to keep the level we found for 2020 and, in particular, on advanced biofuels?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220110355	It was, in fact, just an attempt to give a factual answer to what would happen if we did not do any further. I think it is actually fairly clear that we are broadly interested in looking at how to create better regulation that focuses on CO2 2
ParlaMint-DK_20200220110422	Then it's mr. Henning Hyllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220110424	I was pleased with the last remark. We could also think in these terms, in other words, that it is really a question of phasing out biofuels as a propellant in the transport sector. In the Enhedslisten, we clearly consider biofuels to be a transitional form before large-scale electrification is used, in other words electric cars, as the rapporteur said. However, I was also very pleased that the rapporteur was able to emphasise that this is also about electrofuels. It is very much a matter of propellants based on green current hydrogen in pure form or with the addition of some carbon, for even CO2 So that means creating the various fuels to be used, not least in heavy transport. It is a little different from ship to aircraft for trucks. So I was really happy about that. The technology is there. In our opinion, this is no longer so much about developing and researching etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220110536	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220110537	I agree very much with that, and I agree with this view that it is very important to look at the means of transport with which we are dealing. For it is clear that direct electrification is much easier when we talk about passenger cars than when we talk about heavy transport, that is when we talk about ship and aircraft. So it is of course important that in this debate we keep in mind that we are using the green drives, whether it is electricity or fuels, in the best possible way. I therefore agree with this, because I do not believe that we should have many biofuels in ordinary passenger cars in the future, but during a transitional period this could help to push for the conversion of fossil-powered cars by bringing in more green fuels. However, it is of course important that it is not a food-requiring fuel, but that it is something that is based on residues and advanced biofuels.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220110640	Sir. Henning Hyllested, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220110641	These are some very good considerations with which I fully agree. But the reason why I am also pleased with the emphasis that this is also very much about developing electrofuels on the basis of green electricity, hydrogen, etc. is that until now, or at least until six months ago, there has been such a great deal about the fact that it was electricity that we should bet on almost everywhere, even in heavy transport, etc. There, of course, I am very pleased that the rapporteur emphasises that no, it is not just about electrifying, for example. The car park. This is very much also about electrofuels. It has come into play to a far, far greater extent. It also appears in many of the conferences we have been running in here lately that it is very much gaining ground now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220110724	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220110725	I very much agree that it is important that this has been put on the political radar so much and that we are not only talking about setting up more wind turbines, but also about enabling us to make better use of that power and precisely to make that sectoral connection into the transport sector. Because there is no doubt that if we are to have aircraft, ships and so on, in particular. We really need these technologies, and it can only go too slowly to create as good a political framework as possible so that we can push this forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220110754	Then it's Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220110755	After all, we are facing a revolution in passenger transport. Hundreds of billions of dollars spend the car industry investing in the production of battery electric cars. It is the car industry's response to demands from the EU that the cars sold in the future should not deduce as much CO2 So there are politicians who have not decided at all what kind of technologies they need to use, they have just laid down some requirements, and then the industry has found out how best to meet those requirements. That's why I'm disappointed because this is so successful that with this proposal for adoption, the Social Democratic Party designates power-to-x, which is just one of the different approaches to providing emission-free transport, as something very special. Why not pursue this strategy that we are making very tough demands and that we then have to see what scientists and industry and transport companies etc. find out to meet those requirements?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220110900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220110901	I just have to say that I disagree with the questioner in relation to his remarks that power-to-x is just one in a multitude of technologies. Power-to-x is one of the things that will be crucial. We have to keep in mind, and it is not to be educational to power-to-x, or power to something that Mrs Signe Munk used to express, is to take the power and then turn it into something. So that way, it's not technology-related what we're gonna turn it into. But we know that we have large amounts of excess power and in the future we will get much more of it. We get huge amounts of power, which is there in times when the wind blows a lot and the sun shines a lot. Surely we must exploit the huge quantities and make use of them. At the same time, we also know that biofuels, for example, are, of course, part of the solution, but that there is, after all, a limited biomass to make fuels. So I disagree that it is a technology in line with all sorts of others in a large catalogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220111004	Ole Birk Olesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220111005	Well, I totally agree that power-to-x is probably gonna be part of the solution to this. I think it looks very promising and you can hardly think of anything else. However, we do not see that progress on passenger transport is being made by the fact that some politicians have decided that battery cars are the only right thing to do. Progress is being made by making some demands, in this case the European Union, on emissions, and then the industry and researchers will find out how to meet those requirements. Let's use that approach... I think that's a good idea... instead of saying: Now we specifically mention one kind of technology.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220111040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220111040-2	In any case, I would like to respond to the questioner so much as to say that we have seen examples in the past that it has been difficult to know how green they really are in relation to biofuels. And that was a bit of the situation we faced in the autumn. We must, of course, be careful about that, which is why it is also important that we look at CO2 but I still think it is important to stress the need for a massive effort on power-to-x.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220111111	Then it's mr. Orla Østerby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220111113	Thank you. I think that some of the rapporteurs are well advanced in the annual figures in terms of power-to-x and what else may be new technologies that are being developed. However, I have to understand the rapporteur correctly. Today, we have a 7,6 incorporation requirement, and the rapporteur said earlier that it had to fall back to 5.75. Is it possible for the Social Democrats to think the idea of going back at all? So, I just want to know: can the rapporteur refuse to go back on what we have this year of 7.6?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220111200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220111200-2	Social democracy is also very concerned that we have just looked at CO2 so it was more factual to answer what happens if we do nothing at all than it was my expression that it is something that I want us to go back to. I think that we should continue to discuss this and continue the good dialogue that we have had in the autumn too, when we have just come to the conclusion that it is of no use for us to commit ourselves to biofuels that are not really sustainable but are really food-intensive and that we need to focus on CO2.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220111242	Sir. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220111243	I'm gonna try again. As things stand right now, it is probably beyond 2030 and also into 2040 that we have cars with fossil fuels, and during that period we must make sure that we displace as much of what we can by using biofuels. It could also be second generation and advanced, but can the rapporteur, when it comes to the stepping stones that we need to achieve the 2030 target of 70%, not just tell me whether it is quite clear from the Social Democrats that we need to send out the signal to those who are producing it today that we are sticking to the 7.6 per cent.?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220111332	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220111332-2	I fully agree that we cannot do it alone with power-to-x, and that is also what I said in my rapporteur's speech, especially when we look at the short lane towards 2030. Because we don't get big-scale power-to-x in 1, 2, 3 or but you can hope it for 5 years. So, yes, it is very important that we also create a good framework for promoting demand for these biofuels, which are second generation, which are advanced and which are not food-intensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220111406	Thank you to Mrs Paulin. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we are going to go further in the rapporteur's report. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220111427	Thank you. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to sign for the opportunity to debate this topic in the Danish Parliament today. It is, of course, a broad wish that we had in connection with the debate that has also been held in the past on the subject. In the government, of course, you have a lot of plans for a lot of things, and you outline some things you want to do. It's just the way it's supposed to be. But of course the rest of us also have a number of questions and comments on the order of the initiatives and plans I mentioned a little in my questions to the Minister from the beginning of the • 'Cause it is not done with sketching a lot of new initiatives. For example: We want diesel and petrol-powered cars to be phased out by 2030, but we must, of course, at the same time, I think, be fully on the beat when it comes to also making the proposals on the things that are needed to ensure that this can be done so that people are not suddenly out on the road and lack the drives for the types of cars that are on the market, for example. is not invested enough in setting up charging stations and hydrogen stations, and what else is needed to ensure that people can still get to and from work. Now, of course, the debate is about alternative fuels in the transport sector, so what I want to do, at least, is to discuss and get to fill relatively much today is the part where we also go in and look at how we get these new fuels into those places where it is technically a little more difficult when it comes to driving the slightly heavier goods, that is, where it is not just passenger car traffic that we are discussing. It is clear that, as you have larger trucks, they can't go that far on the liter. Pulling 40 tonnes is more resource-intensive than pulling a car of 1,100 kg, for example. This also means that today we have discussions about both electrified trucks, but also hydrogen cars, and the technology that is being used in other countries but which is being used in Denmark. In fact, we are no longer going back than December of last year, 2019, when Copenhagen got its first electricity distribution car, and it is actually one of the companies at home in Hedensted Municipality where I come from, namely the Aarstiderne, who has chosen to put one of these on the street here in Copenhagen. It is, after all, a tiny step along the way; I acknowledge that. This has probably also happened with some kind of subsidy. But that does not change the fact that some of the things are coming too, although politicians may be asking for it in a different order. In any case, I would like to say that if we are to lift it here in relation to our freight transport where a great deal of fuel is being used today, namely on trucks, it is absolutely essential, in the best of our knowledge, that we should first deal with what is called local distribution, so that we can, for example, take care of what is called local distribution. The distribution cars that drive around our major cities are getting onto hydrogen and electricity solutions instead of what is happening today. The second part of this is in relation to the problem of hardship. Much of the discharge that is comes from our heavy goods transport, and that is because the cars are queued on the motorways. This is something that I know happens over from Aarhus and then down south, funny enough, where you can see that the queues also mean that the trucks that ooz a little are also oozing when they keep in line on the motorways. So I think it's best to think about our logistics. In other words, we need to improve our infrastructure plans by coordinating and reflecting on developments in the transport sector. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that an action plan is of course necessary, but we also believe that what has been outlined may be too short-sighted. We will be very interested in concluding some agreements, but it must also be the case that the industries have the opportunity to keep up. Many of those who invest in vehicles do not only do it for 1 year, 3 years or 5 years, they buy more long-term, expensive trucks and propellants at all. So that's not what's supposed to do. That is why we also need to have long-term solutions for the transport industry. In the Danish People's Party we agree that we have to think about what is broad, we have to talk about biofuels, of course, but we certainly also have to remember both biogas, electricity and hydrogen. There are a number of different approaches, and I am in agreement with Mr Tugendhat. Ole Birk Olesen in what he said about many of these things. It may well be that they are created on different grounds, but some of them also come as solutions where companies and industries change sectorally in relation to the demand generated by citizens, consumers and so on. So we believe that this is the right way to go and that we need to focus more particularly on the heavy part of the transport sector, because it has been a little lacking in relation to the fact that electric cars are always being discussed for Mr. and Mrs. Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220111944	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Ida Auken, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220111950	When we have been following the climate debate for many years, we also know that it is changing rapidly at the moment. It has gone from being very much a matter of energy. We have a Ministry of Climate and Energy, we have had a major climate agreement where we have been able to make 100 per cent. Green electricity and heating and now it is moving into the other rather large areas that have an impact on our climate, and there is, of course, one of the very big pieces in the transport sector. I have to say that, as a climate and energy rapporteur, one can feel a certain responsibility for the situation being as it is, because one has just been so focused on the energy side of this. We must also be honest and say that there are, of course, many who can take responsibility for the increase in emissions in the transport sector; the sector itself has done little, but responsibility can also be placed with us as legislators, who in fact have offered the sector rather botched rules and rather double regulation. We got into trouble with the rules when we had to discuss the alternative propellants and incorporation last time, because we actually had both a VE directive that made one demand and a mixing requirement from somewhere else, and this made it possible to make relatively inappropriate regulations for the transport sector. That is why I am delighted today that we in the Danish Parliament would like to try to resolve this in a long-term way and say: how can we set a framework for the transport sector, which makes it possible to invest in those who make it a player in it, as an ordinary citizen, who knows what we are going for? What I think is very important is the effect of what we do. We should not do anything that sounds good, we should do something that has a CO2 So going in and putting a CO2 Then it is clear that in order to put turbo on it and to help those who have to choose the right means where we know some of them, the tax system must of course also be in play, so that, for example, we do not have to do anything that sounds good. are rewarded for choosing a better propellant or a better vehicle so that we set up the system in this way. I think that the vision for all of us who are here today must be that we can do something similar to the energy agreement, that is to say that we can make a broad agreement in which we actually set ourselves objectives and listen to each other from both sides and say: how can we regulate the transport sector, which operates at home, with the various perspectives and knowledge we have, and of course also have a look at the fact that a large part of transport is European and runs on the roads of other countries? What we heard in a very good hearing in the Committee on Transport recently was that the race has probably run when it comes to the cars, because there are mainly electric cars that are being answered. But when it comes to heavier transport, it is not decided yet whether it is hydrogen, whether it is gas, whether it is electricity or what infrastructure we have to build. But what is the clear message to us, and we got it at our own climate and energy committee hearing about power-to-x the other day, was that these things are not going to happen by themselves in the transport sector. This isn't gonna be done that way. One can say that we on the power side are now where wind is the cheapest energy source in the world. It's kind of a place where the market can handle really, very much, but there we're just not on transport yet. We believe that electric cars go where they are competitive, both in terms of operation and in terms of purchasing, that in reality it is as cheap to buy an electric car and drive in it as it is to buy a petrol and diesel car and fill it with petrol, because the electricity is so much cheaper than petrol, but it is hard to imagine that the alternative fuels are competitive without us setting the framework differently in the coming years. So that is what is my dream and one of the reasons why we have pushed the government so much to get started with a long-term debate that has a focus on CO2 There are also some decisions we can take before we have the Eldrupkommission's recommendations, because some of what we know is that we have to get those cars on electricity. For example: We are already building the electricity grid in a lot of places, and if we can say politically that they have to be ready for 1 11⁄2 million electric cars, they also know now that this is the investment framework they can go for when they are expanding out there and it will be cheaper for everyone. We are impatient, we want to get started, and we believe that a large number of these decisions can be taken, even if we are waiting for one of the really big lumps, namely the Eldrup Commission, and we hope that the government will make their bid for this as soon as possible, and we look forward to constructively entering into that work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220112452	There are brief comments. First, Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220112454	Thank you for the good rapporteur's speech, and also for the fact that the rapporteur was involved in the question debate. And above all, thank you for putting so much pressure on the Radical Left that we must start the climate negotiations and that there are also some negotiations we can take now, such as this debate. The visions of the rapporteur to focus more on CO2 It is clear that here in the short run it will not be power-to-x and hydrogen. Biofuels play a major role, which is why it is also essential that we clarify what applies to biofuels in the short term. I would therefore like to hear what the rapporteur thinks about the incorporation requirement. How does the Radical Left view the incorporation requirement? What's it gonna look like next year? Should we maintain the minimum level we have this year? And especially in relation to advanced biofuels: does the Radical Left want us to be able to set it up and to support the production of advanced biofuels?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220112602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220112603	As I immediately see it, a CO2 is actually demanding what it is that fuel is emitted out there; what CO2 I saw most of all that we should not go down that road. But I am also aware that suddenly there is not much time, and we can risk, if we do not get into these negotiations now, standing here again in the autumn and having to make some of these demands for incorporation to make sure that it does not come to a halt. So I just think that this clearly shows that there needs to be some clarification so that we do not have a triple regulation of this sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220112647	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220112648	Although there are very many good intentions behind a CO2 that is why I think it is so relevant to know what should apply to the incorporation requirement. If we do not achieve the goal of changing the legislation completely, then suddenly it is about CO2 Should we make the same requirement for mixing next year as we are doing this year?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220112719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220112727	All in all, we did not think that was a lucky regulation. The reason why we ended up where we did was because there was an EU requirement that either you broke the law or you had to do it here. So for us to see, it is about us actually having a clear picture of what kind of regulatory system we are going into. It may well be that we have not adopted the law, but if we have a clear picture of what kind of regulatory system we are going to adopt, then I think it would be more important that we started shipping in this direction as early as next year than I am now mentioning a figure of what the incorporation should be, so that we actually have a clear picture of the sector as well in a dialogue with the sector to what extent we think it should be an infrastructure for refueling and to what extent it is electricity that needs to be invested in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220112801	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220112802	Thank you. In relation to heavy transport, it is true that it is not the same way which technology is to be used there. But the question is whether we here in the Folketing are the right people to find out how best to reduce emissions from heavy transport. This suggests the proposal for adoption which says that it is power-to-x to be used. It may well be that that is what I even think it is likely but frankly: I do not know what will be invented in 2 years' time, which may be able to outperform power-to-x. My question to Mrs Ida Auken is: why does the Radical Left not just take part in tightening the demands? One thing is the demands that come from the European Union, where Denmark plays a role in tightening up the requirements, and that is fine. But another thing is, for example. our environmental zone requirements in Denmark, in relation to what it takes to drive inside the cities. This could be a lever for the development of alternative fuels for heavy transport, which I do not see the Radical Left using.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220112910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220112911	Oh, environmental zones or clean air zones are perhaps one of the areas that I personally have worked most with and think is one of the most meaningful ways to protect the city's citizens, so simply to say that the most polluting cars should not drive in where there are very many people. Just as we have made advantages over parking electric cars, we can give some benefits. You can certainly work on what you have done in Germany and say that there are zones where you can only drive if you drive completely clean. So there is no fear of using environmental zones. In fact, we would like the law put forward by the previous government to be tightened up a little further. It has then been taken over by my colleague Zenia Stampe in the meantime, so exactly where we are putting the tightening right now, perhaps I can explain in writing. Of course, the questioner is welcome to ask further questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220113002	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220113003	I have no doubt that the Radical Left means this. But does the Radical Left attach importance to this? Did the Radical Left go to the debate on finance with the call for the environmental zones to be tightened up, or was it more important to receive higher cash aid for immigrants? Was it more important to have more educators in kindergarten that kindergarten stuff? I do not remember the Radical Left going to the financial bill debate when they had the balls on the government and saying: we want tighter environmental zones.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220113036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220113037	I assume these are cinnamon balls we're talking about here! I do not wish to hold up the questioner that he has not read the whole of the Radical Left's financial bill. For the environmental zones are in our play, and I myself have been involved in presenting it to the Minister for Finance as one of our demands. Then perhaps the rapporteur remembers that one of the reasons why it took a little time to get a budget law was that we in the Radical Left were reasonably tired because we fought for those electric cars. We wanted a bridge over to the new tax system. We would have a promise that they will not rise again until we have the new tax system and we fought for the permanent reduction of the tax on electric cars. And fortunately, we did.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220113115	Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220113116	Thank you. After all, the Radical Left has long been advocating this change and, of course, we should be welcome to do so. In relation to the conversion of the way in which we think in Denmark, I would say that the rapporteur himself mentioned this, i.e. that it is just to the right, in relation to the fact that many of the electric cars are so far advanced compared to so much else. There is good sense in passenger transport, but on freight transport it is a slightly different picture immediately, because one does not really have an overview of what really appears technologically in ten years' time, for example, and what is the most optimal in terms of achieving a reasonable fuel consumption on new types of energy on heavy truck trains, etc. However, a fossil-free transport sector requires at least a conversion to a whole new infrastructure in relation to tank capacity etc., which we do not know at all today, and so we have not begun to do so. Does it not worry the Radical Left that you are busy telling us that things have to be converted, that is, what you put in the tanks, but that you can't really offer anything, in terms of how to get started with the conversion of all these tank systems, which we are bound to have to look at, both when it comes to finding a process, but not least when it comes to economics?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220113238	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220113239	One might say that the very first major task we have in relation to infrastructure is that of charging stations, so that is that you can actually load your electric car across the country and that you can get turbocharged where there are more people to carry such an investment. Then there is the question of biogas, which we are looking at today. In fact, there we have, together with the Left, I think, raised the question whether it might be that we should actually take some of this biogas and create an infrastructure that can lead it directly into the cars. But it's a place where there's not enough knowledge. I don't think we get enough answers when we ask the Ministry about this. The entire hydrogen infrastructure is probably a place where I would say that we have to listen a little to the other European countries before we give ourselves the chance to make a very large investment. But that should not hold us back from getting started with electricity right now and see if we can make methane or methanol that can be mixed into the existing tank systems.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220113332	Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220113342	Thank you. I think you're up to having three charging stations in the Copenhagen area for hydrogen. And if you choose, for example, that the distribution cars over, for example. 3,500 kg, or even those up to 3,500 kg, within a number of years must be converted and not be diesel polluting, I would have liked to say, in Denmark, that it is important that you are also able to deliver the infrastructure for it. And that's what I'm looking for in the Radical Left. In other words, we want to set targets for the conversion of propellants, but no precise requirements have been made for the financing of how the process is to be about replacing the tank systems that are being used today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220113412	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220113413	I have some doubts as to whether the rapporteur heard my speech. As far as I'm concerned, it's all about how it's hard to start designing the entire infrastructure before we have the idea of how it CO2 I started my whole speech by saying that this area hasn't been drilled out properly. There is no proper vision, and that means that, if you just make such decisions, you take them in some kind of blindness. I would therefore like to say that, of course, we are not going to roll out such an infrastructure until we know whether that is what we are going to be bet on and before we say that this is what we are asking for. We know, on the other hand, that electricity is the infrastructure that we have to roll out right now, and we have made investments for that and pressed for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220113455	Thank you. There are no more comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220113510	We are facing a climate crisis. We have a Climate Act which presents a reduction target of 70%. in 2030. We have the problem, we have the framework law, and now we lack the means to implement climate action. There is no doubt that the solution to the climate crisis or the fulfilment of the ambitions of the Climate Act does not come of its own accord; political action must be taken. When we look at the transport sector, we can see that it represents a large part of the emissions. The Minister also made this point at the outset. We can also see that the conversion does not take place on its own. The emissions of the transport sector have increased slightly in recent years, and if we look at the projections, they will at best reach 2030. The current policy on electric cars, rail electrification and also the incorporation of biofuels into liquid fuels are far from ambitious enough to meet our climate targets. In the eyes of the SF, even the policy for the rye bread engine is not even ambitious enough • we are about to end up being a car nation instead of a bicycle nation. We need to look all around to see how transport is to be organised in a more climate-friendly way in the future. Action is needed. When we look at the drivers of transport, it is our position, as several rapporteurs have also said up here, that for passenger cars electrification will be the key. There is also potential for vans in relation to electrification, but if we look at heavy transport, there is a challenge. It does not look as if on the short lane you can electrify the heavy transport • whether it is trucks, whether it is long-distance shipping or whether it is aircraft. At the same time, it is also just the case that the diesel and petrol cars rolling on the roads today will also be on the roads for a number of years to come, unfortunately, the new cars that the Danes have recently bought. That is why we just have to recognise that when we talk about transport propellants, we need to look at both electrification, of course, but in particular also at the part dealing with liquid fuels in the tank. We believe that a fuel law should be drawn up which has the character of a VE fuel law instead of a biofuel law that we know today. Such legislation could promote the climate and the best fuels that exist here and now, measured from CO2 This means that in the future the incorporation should focus on having a core where there is a focus on CO2 An element of such legislation we imagine is a requirement for CO2 I SF, we also think it is important that when looking at CO2 one should also look at the indirect climate impacts that exist. In such a climate wahili it is called the ILUC criteria, but what it really is about is also looking at what is the climate impact of the indirect use of land, for example. emissions of first generation biofuels. So we need to have the overall climate impact in the picture when we weigh whether a mixed fuel displaces CO2 In addition to a new paradigm in our fuel legislation for a RE fuel focus and for CO2, this means, of course, that we need to look at whether we are strategically going to it in the right way in relation to power-to-x or power-to-something, to which both Mrs Paulin and I have started translating power-to-x. We come from Jutland, and then you might want to get the phrase wrong. But basically, in terms of political action, it is about strategic action in this area. I have the hope that, both with the debate we are having today and with the proposal for adoption that has been put forward, we will be invited as soon as possible to negotiate a VE fuel law, preferably before the summer holiday.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220114015	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Marie Bjerre, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220114017	It was actually just before you answered my question here in your last comment. Because I noticed that the rapporteur said that there is a need for a long-term plan and that there is a need for the Minister to be called for negotiations, preferably before the summer break. We in the Left believe that it is urgent that we get to grips with the negotiations on alternative fuels. In fact, we called for this as early as the autumn, because we really do not know what the incorporation requirement is for next year. So what I would like to hear from the rapporteur is how long the rapporteur thinks it is fair that we should wait to get these negotiations started.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220114050	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220114051	As I have just said in the last few seconds, as the rapporteur also noted, we in the SF think it is important that we get started before the summer break. I think that what we can learn from the process we had up to December, where we could also say that the challenge of mixing biofuels could have been tackled much earlier, is that it has been a delayed and hasty process. It has not given us the political discussion that we need in such a complex area. That is why it is our hope and our call that we start these negotiations as soon as possible, because it is a paradigm shift that we need to get on with that is what is important. We need to focus on CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20200220114133	Mrs. Marie Bjerre, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220114134	I am extremely pleased that the rapporteur would like to speed up the negotiations. Does the rapporteur also agree that it is important that we quickly clarify what will apply next year? What rules apply to the incorporation requirement and to advanced biofuels?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220114148	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220114149	At least I see it as my hope that we can have a CO2 and if it can be implemented from 2021 and can be increased continuously, actually towards 2050 or how long it will take until we get full CO2 But my performance is actually that from 2021 we can get started setting a CO2 2
ParlaMint-DK_20200220114226	Thank you. There are no more comments. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220114238	Thank you. For me, there is no doubt that this obviously requires political action, and that is why we are here today too on the very short track, so that we can get the green transition of the transport sector moving. So we fully agree that we will have an action plan for that, and for that matter, rather today than tomorrow. We now believe that this should not just be about propellants, but about all the instruments that can reduce and, in the long term, also eliminate the climate impact of the transport sector. That is why I would like to start by saying that climate action in transport also requires us to shift transport to those modes of transport which are in themselves less climate-laden. This is true, for example. for passenger transport, which is far better in terms of climate with public transport, where large parts of the train traffic already operate on climate-friendly electricity as electrification takes place, there will be larger parts of the train transport, which will do so and where the bus park will also be powered within a relatively few years. Thus it can be said that public transport is, in itself, far ahead of private carism in terms of climate, and therefore public transport must be promoted as much as possible. This also means that we must push on, in relation to the fact that the vast majority of transport, not least passenger transport, is currently taking place in cars and on our roads. In the area of goods, there are also more climate-friendly solutions, namely freight and shipping, and an action plan should also take a serious look at how we can move much more goods over there. Freight transport on rail has been a seriously neglected area for very, very many years. For a long time there was only one man in Banedanmark who was involved in freight transport in Denmark, and it was of course to ensure that the trains driving transit from Sweden to Germany could, after all, get through. That is why we also want the Enhedslisten to support the fuels that can be promoted from wind and sun, when we are no longer talking about modes of transport, but we are talking about fuels that can be promoted from wind and sun, and that includes both hydrogen, which can be used directly, but perhaps also liquid fuels made from this hydrogen, which is produced by sun and wind. These are the so-called electrofuels, which we have also mentioned, and which Enhedslisten is absolutely convinced will have a very, very important role to play, while at the same time we are constantly implementing electricity operations more and more. I would also like to say that there is a lot of talk about biofuels, that in the Enhedslisten we consider biofuels to be a transitional phenomenon, as a market has not been developed, or that there is currently not enough electricity operation and enough operation with electrofuels. As I have said, we consider it to be a transitional fuel which must be phased out along the way, because we do not really consider it to be a feasible fuel and propellant in terms of climate. After all, all this requires us to make political effort here and now to put a full stop to promoting both the production and demand of electrofuels. It is, after all, gratifying to see that there are in fact a number of larger plants on the way to being established, and that is what it is all about, that is to say, creating a market. It's really not so much about researching what the technology is so widely known, but it's about creating a market for it and a demand for it. A short time ago we had a conference in the Landstingsalen on electrofuels, and the message was quite clear: it is going extremely fast in this area, also faster than we thought one year or two years ago, and the price, I would say, does not deter. It was mentioned that this would typically be two or three times more expensive than the well-known fuels today. That doesn't scare us in the Enhedslisten, I must say. So it's more expensive, yes, but what are we really waiting for? It is clear that a social balance must be ensured throughout this transition. This applies in general to the green transition. We believe that this must be included in the discussions, but this is a slightly different discussion. So let us clarify as soon as possible how we should politically push the transition so that we can get electrofuels into aircraft, in ships and, for that matter, also in passenger cars, if that becomes a possibility quickly. So we are also in favour of the proposal for adoption that has been tabled, but we are also co-sponsors, including the call for the government to launch negotiations on how best to do this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220114741	Thank you. That was exactly the time. Then there are a few comments to Mr. Henning Hyllested, and the first is from Mrs. Marie Bjerre, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220114747	The rapporteur focuses much of his speech on public transport, on wind, on sun and on hydrogen. Technology is not so far advanced that we cannot also focus on biofuels, and I also hear that the rapporteur says that biofuels play a role, at least in a transitional period. But I would like to know whether the rapporteur recognizes that biofuels are the key to meeting a CO2 2
ParlaMint-DK_20200220114839	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220114840	I certainly hope that developments will go faster than that it will only become a really realistic alternative after 2030, and I must admit that too. In the many conferences that have been held, among other things: in this house, and in which I have participated, it has clearly been said that developments are going very fast, and that is why, in our opinion, at some point we also have it included in our own climate action plan that fossil cars will have been phased out. However, it is right and clear that biofuels are going to play a role for some time to come. This will, of course, be an ongoing development and we imagine that in reality it will be such an ongoing replacement of biofuels. We consider it not to be such a really sustainable fuel in terms of climate, but especially if it's the second generation we're talking about, and I assume it's that there's clearly something CO2 such as the transition phenomenon: Yes. But in the long term it is electrofuels, hydrogen, electricity, and whatever else comes from technology.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220114948	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220114949	I am pleased with the recognition that came here at the end, in other words that after all, it is recognised that biofuels play an important role. Biofuels, second generation fuels and advanced fuels are based on residues and on waste, which is why we also see that it has a role to play in the future. Does the rapporteur not agree that these fuels are green and that it is important that we use them after all?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220115012	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220115012-2	Yes, we have to, as I said, not least because we have been incredibly left behind and, last year, we suddenly had that panic act about the fact that we had to increase the incorporation requirement in order to meet the European Union's requirements at all. This is, of course, because we've been sitting on our hands in this house, not least in terms of promoting electric cars. Look at Norway: You've made a lot, much longer in this field. I have strong doubts as to whether second-generation biofuels are at all capable of meeting the market. These are at least some of the signals I think I hear from out there, so that in reality it can be quite, quite difficult to supply enough fuel for the needs that will be, and that therefore the development of electricity and hydrogen, and what it is all called, must go very fast.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220115100	Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220115102	Thank you, President. Now I am one of those nasty people who has a past in the transport industry, and I have also been a port worker like another rapporteur in this Chamber today. So I know it a little bit, both as a physical user, but certainly also as a company. I have ordered thousands of containers out of Denmark with Danish freshly baked cookies. I was glad to eat them, too. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur about this in relation to the discussion on whether we should have more goods on the railways and ships, because that part of it I share with Mr. Henning Hylllested, and Mr. Henning Hylllested knows that. Well, it's a good thing we have a common ambition about. But where the schism in relation to fuel and emissions and the discussion we have today arise is when, in some places, you would have to drive the goods in the wrong direction to get to, for example, to. a port. Now let's say you have to get it to Aarhus Harbour. Then someone will have to drive it north to get it to the port, and then you will have to take it to Bremerhaven or Hamburg or where it is going, and it will also cost money in terms of energy and compensation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220115211	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220115212	Yeah, that's absolutely right. That's clear enough. Truck transport is an incredibly flexible mode of transport, no doubt. It is both volume-wise because you can adjust to almost any volume and size of the goods you have to transport, but it is also in relation to where you can get to it because the road network is now far, far more developed than the rail network is. However, I think that rail transport should play a much greater role, particularly in combination with truck transport. That is why, of course, it is also important that lorries should then also be developed to drive on climate-wise correct, sustainable fuels. Electrofuels are our clearly preferred, as it currently appears. We see that it can run well in combination with, if I may say so, the last mile from, for example. a railway terminal and then to the place where it is to be used. It is quite clear that this is how it is going to happen. It's not gonna be a either or.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220115310	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220115311	But a Danish production company also receives their bills on a transport service from a transport company. It's typically a cost to get the goods from A to B. That's logic. The art is also to have the distance between A and B made as small as possible precisely so as not to be on the road network anywhere else more than necessary. But the second one, which is also on the same bills that you get, is what is called the cost of action. That's all that's beyond. It can be paper documentation and anything else. And to have to move the goods several times, for example. to pick them up in a truck from a manufacturer, drive them to a port, unload them at a port, load them on a ship to another port, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220115352	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220115353	It is clear that when you have the railroad, there will be an extra action. That's absolutely right. We now believe that in the future too, businesses will be looking for green transport, including an increasing demand for goods to be transported, for example. By rail, and we think this will be a very much a parameter that will enter into competition: we are transporting green! And then the market has to adapt and say that it has to be just as cheap that the paperwork has to be simple and all that. In these digitization times, I don't think that's gonna be the big problem anymore. It is no longer quite as Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby was in the business.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220115443	Thank you. Then it's mr. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220115447	Thank you. The rapporteur has spoken warmly in favour of hydrogen and electrofuels, and I also heard the rapporteur say that it did nothing for Enhedslisten that the price was two to three times higher. Can the rapporteur tell me what will happen to us, who live on the outskirts of Denmark, if the price is to be two to three times higher, and even worse for the business community, which must also take advantage of this? At any rate, it will make Denmark worse off than it is today if it is the end of it, because here the car is crucial to mobility, and that is why the price is of course also crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220115539	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220115539-2	After all, the price is rising everywhere; it is fuel made from hydrogen and electricity, etc., especially fuel made from hydrogen, which, in all probability, from the conferences we have attended, will be two to three times more expensive. But it is quite general that this is the case. Yeah, it's gonna be more expensive. In other words, if one imagines that one can make a comprehensive green transition and do so quickly, it applies both to the transport sector and to all other areas, if I may say completely free of charge, then I believe that yesterday's thinking is stuck. And, as I said, it is incredibly important for the Enhedslisten that comprehensive social considerations, including the outskirts, are of course taken into account, but they are not put at a disadvantage in principle because the price of fuel generally rises.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220115637	Thank you. Sir. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220115638	It is the case that you drive significantly more miles west than you do, if you live in Copenhagen I can sign that so there will be a distortion. Will the rapporteur think it quite okay that those who drive 30,000 km a year should pay two to three times the price today compared to those who live in the big city, which may be 5,000 km a year? Does the rapporteur not see that this is a huge distortion?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220115712	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220115713	After all, one of our main efforts is to reduce the transport that is taking place and, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, to transfer the transport to public transport. And then I know that the rapporteur, if he could speak again, would say that public transport does not exist in the outskirts! No, and why doesn't it? This is because, for many decades, it has been decided politically that it should be done in the sense that municipalities and regions have been kept in an economic iron grip, so they have cut down on public transport, because it was, after all, more convenient than cutting in primary schools or nursing homes, or whatever it was supposed to be. So that is the problem we are facing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220115754	Thank you. There are no further comments to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220115805	Thank you. I would like to begin by saying that the Conservative People's Party is a co-author of F 26 and, of course, we are voting in favour of the text before us. It is important that we now have the Minister put on hold that we are about to start these negotiations. And I can hear from the Minister that we will start with as early as next week. After all, we stand for me in a good position. We have a historical energy reconciliation with all parties from 2018. This means that there should be a common front so that we can achieve a reduction of 70%. in 2030. Of course, this also requires us to get started now and, as I see it, we are facing challenges that we need to address very, very quickly. After all, we have decided to set up two coastal wind farms out in West Jutland, and we must set up three offshore wind farms. So we're on it. We are also in the process of a power highway down through Jutland. Not everyone is equally proud of it, but it is necessary to get rid of the energy we produce. As I see it, we need a strategy for the sector, which, overall, is that we need to expand our offshore wind farms by 2-3 pieces. I think most people agree on that. That must be the goal, so that by 2030 we can reduce by 70%. We have a distribution network for electricity, which we must get very quickly because it is essential for us to be able to reach 70% at all. in 2030. Then we have a network of charging stations that really needs to get going if that's how we're gonna get these 1-1.5 million electric cars going. So that's where we get really, really busy. I agree in part with most rapporteurs that biofuels are what we can call a stepping stone for a period until we have electrified or there are new technologies that we have not seen yet, which suddenly appear. But we still have away, we can say, beyond the stepping stone, maritime traffic, we still have air traffic. I believe that we will see that we will need the advanced bioethanol for a long time. And I think we should shake hands on the advanced bio-aetanol and get a factory up in Denmark, specifically in Holstebro. We're gonna take the lead here. We have Novozymes, who is in charge of it. It's very, very far ahead. It would be an important signal to send to them and the industry, which could also be an export success for Denmark. Then I think that the development we are having right now also means that we have seen things evolve that we have not seen before. A former rapporteur mentioned that we have not had public transport expanded over in West Jutland. I can then say that we are way ahead of us right now, because now we have decided that battery trains must be run on the VLTJ track. We hadn't imagined that two years ago. It has to run with batteries, which you then charge to the stations. The same can be done from Struer to Vejle, so we're free to hang up all those threads that cost billions after billions of dollars. So there will be new technologies and provide us with solutions that we have not seen, and there will be many, many more. Industry is far ahead of us politicians. So we have to create the framework, and that means we have to create strategies for how to implement what is now being developed. For example, I was last week in Seville, and I think that when I sit and watch a tram come running into the station and then the scissors go up, and then the scissors go up, and then the scissors go up again, and it's too bad that we don't have trams here in Copenhagen, because then we could do the same. But there we have the buses instead, and buses with batteries have come really, really far. So, finally, what I want to say about this is that I hope we will recognise that for a long time to come we need bio-aetanol, the advanced bio-aetanol, in order to reduce CO2, I hope that at the same time we will also be able to agree in the near future that we will have this power grid set up and the other networks that will have to be built on this. That is my hope and I look forward to the forthcoming negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220120331	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur. It's sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220120344	As our usual rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, sitting in committee, I am pleased to be able to take part in this debate. It's been a bit of a luxury. This is a very interesting debate, I think, at an extremely high level of detail. I have had many rapporteurs and have been involved in many questions, and I think that this is characterised by a very, very high level of knowledge among the rapporteurs and a high level of detail, which is also reassuring. Because we have a climate plan with virtually all the parties that have their hands on the hot plate, and it is very ambitious. I must then confess that there are a few details that I need to explain to you in more detail. Rasmus Nordqvist, our climate rapporteur. However, there is no doubt that, as a society, we are facing major changes due to the climate crisis. In the alternative, we usually say that it is very simple: the climate crisis does not just change something, it changes everything. This also means, of course, that transport must change fundamentally in a very short period of time. We must move from transport on fossil energy to transport on renewable energy. This will be an important part of the spring climate action plan negotiations and, of course, we are also impatient to get along as quickly as possible. This is, of course, important, especially when we are talking about heavy transport, as we already have good answers to passenger transport. And, of course, it is important that we talk about research and development of the new technologies that are needed, but also that we are quick to roll out a proper infrastructure so that everything can be made possible around the country. However, it is also important for the alternative to say that it is not just enough to look at new propellants. We also need to look at transport systems. We need to look at how to get more transport across rails and, above all, how to get much less heavy transport in our cities. So let us now take a really thorough look at the forthcoming negotiations and not just look at the elements, but get a real grip on them. We need to look both at all individual elements, but also at the more systemic changes that are in relation to sustainable transport. We must take advantage of the opportunity offered by the green transition to create a much better society than what we know today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220120615	Thank you. It can be a little hard to hear, but I think it's gonna be okay. There are no comments. There is no rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party, so the next rapporteur will be Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220120627	Thank you. I have no doubt for a moment that, in not very many years, petrol and diesel vehicles will not be sold in Denmark thanks to technological developments driven by car manufacturers and helped by the European Union in particular. With demands on how to drive and how much to deduce while driving, it will be possible for us to drive cars that are no more expensive than the petrol and diesel cars we are driving today, and the development will make us consider polluting while driving as a completely superfluous thing that we should not, of course, have in a society where it is possible to drive without polluting while driving. I remember when we in Denmark tried to spread electric cars in Denmark. I think it was with DONG for the table end and Better Place and where Renault had been found as a manufacturer of some electric cars in which there was such a traditional, old-fashioned but very large car battery which filled half the trunk. I was actually out trying a car like this to see if it was something we had to invest in in the family. We came out to such a quite boring car, a middle-class car, which, apart from being boring and middle-class, also had the mistake that it had only half a trunk. And we just couldn't put up with that in my family, where we needed room for both dog and baby carriages and such things sometimes. We, like many other families, didn't get on until a decent electric car came in. And it was Tesla who started making lithium-ion batteries in electric cars. A lot of the batteries that we know from our laptops, phones etc. were put in series down on the car floor, and you found out systems so you could cool them when it was hot and warm them when it was cold and make it work. That is what led it, together with the fact that the European Union has begun to demand here at European level that when driving, we should not emit more than a certain amount of climate gases, CO2. We're going to feel this here in Denmark from around the middle of this year, when Volkswagen starts throwing their first electric car out on the market. It is a competitive car that can do a great deal and will satisfy the needs of most people. Later, of course, other car brands will also be on that cart, which is why we are looking into a future where, as in the second half of 2019, it is not only 21⁄2 per cent. of the cars being sold, there will be emission-free electric cars. No, it'll grow, and it'll grow exponentially, as they say. So if there is a doubling from 2019 to 2020, and it is not unrealistic that we should go from 21⁄2%. 5%. sold electric cars, then we can probably expect in 2021 that there will be a doubling again, so it is not 5 per cent. sold electric cars, but 10%. sold electric cars, and by 2022 with the exponential increase it will already be 20 per cent. Sold electric cars. Perhaps it is even cautiously set, because it may well be that the exponential increase is greater than a doubling each year, it may also be, it is a triple every year. This shows the result of a policy in which we have quite sensibly just called for what to deduce when driving, instead of telling us how to produce cars and how to drive them forward and what technologies to use, etc. This can be helped on the way, so it goes faster, and it can be done by saying, as Parliament says, that we will not tax green transport in the future. We want to keep green transport free from all unnecessary taxation, instead of saying, as has always been the strategy, that at some point we also have to bring green transport under ordinary taxation, the general registration fee, because that will delay this process, and there is no reason for that. It just requires us to recognise that transport is good for society, especially when it turns green, and that we should therefore not impose penalties on transport, as if it were smoking or the discharge of harmful substances, because it will not be in the future. We can charge users who drive cars so that they pay for the roads to be built and maintained, but that is something other than tax, and that is what the Eldrupkommissionen, among other things. Watching. However, I would like us to be able to agree here today that there should be no taxation on green transport, because transport is good and therefore it should not be overtaxed. We cannot do that; instead we must settle for what a majority can agree on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220121200	It was exactly about time. Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220121206	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen is a warm supporter of the market and that the market takes care of everything. And we can have a very long ideological discussion about whether the market will do so, at least whether the market will react quickly enough. I would venture to claim that if at the time it had not supported its political demands regarding the establishment of wind turbines and such things as actually subsidising the flow, etc. etc., the development would not have been achieved, at least not as quickly as it has happened. Then Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, right? I agree that what we have to do in this house is make demands. However, one must support one's demands with the instruments one can use, including turning up and down taxes, taxes, subsidies and such things to promote or vice versa in order to reduce a development one wants or does not want.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220121304	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220121306	I actually attributed a significant role to the European Union for this development, and the European Union is not the market. Although the European Union is an internal market, the policy adopted is not market policy. There is a requirement for car manufacturers when they sell cars in 2021 and 2025 etc. It is a political demand because it has been decided politically that we will not accept that the transport industry continues to derive so much CO2 I think that is a good way of regulating, that is to say, that we simply do not get wise about what techniques, what developments, etc. which can give us emission-free driving says: it must be with falling emissions and at some point also with zero emissions. And then research environments and car industry and consumers find out which technologies can best meet those requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220121411	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220121413	If you look at, for example... Norway, you can see that they have had some demands and some visions that here we will certainly have emission-free driving. The political visions, the political demands, have been supported by actually introducing VAT exemption for electric cars, exemption from tolls and such things. There's those instruments. If you don't support requirements with these instruments and the levers you can screw on, you risk and I think I have evidence to say that the market is not responding, at least not responding quickly enough to the developments we want. Then you have to promote that development in some way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220121459	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220121500	After all, it is not Norway that is driving Volkswagen's investment in new electric cars. I believe that this amounts to over 200 billion. kr., which Volkswagen alone invests in electric cars. I agree, however, that if you want things to go faster than what the European Union lays down through demands on how much cars can deduce, then there are ways to do it. In a country where you have a high tax on conventional cars, one of the ways is that you can remove taxation from green cars so that they gain market share before they would otherwise have done so, as a result of them having to meet the EU requirements imposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220121536	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. There are no further comments to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. And then I shall give the floor to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220121552	Thank you. And thank you for a really good debate with many good inputs and, above all, a high level of impatience. And you might not believe it, but I am actually glad that there is, because it shows that everyone who is here today would actually like to be there. It may sound like a matter of course when you hear the debate here, but you will probably not go much further than I was about to say a year, but it is not even necessary to go back a whole year until some of the parties that are the most impatient now were a whole, completely different place. So it's quite sincerely thought that I'm really happy about that. I think there are a few things that are important to make clear once again. First of all, we are not sitting on our hands. We made a green Finance Act, which is not least green because of the good things that happened in transport. Next week, we will have to translate money set aside in the energy conciliation for green transport purposes, where, in our proposal, the government will focus on the deployment of charging stations and the promotion of efforts in relation to heavy transport. And we're gonna talk about that more next week. Secondly, it is also clear that we look forward with excitement to getting those recommendations from, among others. the climate partnerships, which will come in mid-March. And the fact that they come in the middle of March says something about how busy we are that we are given so short a time limit. So, normally, when you set up councils and commissions and everything else, it is often something that lies in the future, and that is not at all the case here. The work started in November and they are already making some of the recommendations very soon. And as many as three of these partnerships are relevant to the agenda we are discussing here. Finally, of course, there is the car commission, and again: all respect for impatientness, but now it is a commission, but it has set up itself, which had to budge after you no longer had the power. However, in the previous government you could just say in all the quietness you could have done something far, far earlier, if honestly meant. I am so convinced that a great deal has happened to this election that is among other things. We're getting new people here. And there are also many of those who have been here all the time, who are good and fine colleagues in this area, but in particular, new forces have come in, and we are, of course, happy about that, and I very much look forward to benefiting from this in the negotiations we will, of course, soon be faced with. I also think it seems to be a very fine text, which I think is supported, so I also thank you for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220121832	There are two brief comments to be made to the Minister so far. First, it's sir. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220121840	Thank you. I would like to say to the Minister that I am also looking forward to us getting started and that we will have some of the things we have talked about today. I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister does not think it could be a very, very good idea for Denmark that we started building an advanced bio-aetanol fuel plant in Holstebro, which could provide 1,000 jobs, a billion-dollar investment in West Jutland, and which could serve as a benchmark for advanced biofuels in the future. And in view of the fact that it is Novozymes who is in charge of this, could I get the Minister to get in a slightly uplifted mood in relation to this, so that this is something that the Minister can see could be good for Denmark, who could be good for more jobs and could be good for a future transport? Because it is not just the plant that is located in the pipeline in Holstebro, but it could become even more in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220121948	Then the minister will have to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220121949	Yes, I certainly hope that we will have more of this type of factory in our country in the future. I am also delighted in this regard to see what climate partnerships make of recommendations. I don't imagine that Mr. Orla Østerby thinks it's the state that has to build a factory. I think that the questioner may be able to elaborate on that, but he may think that it is about securing the right framework conditions and looking at what is possible for grants, etc. on the public side. And that's where I don't think sir. Ola Østerby is in doubt that, of course, we on the part of the government are very aware of the great potentials that lie here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220122029	Sir. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220122032	Of course, I do not believe that it is the state that should build the plant. But what I have an expectation of is that the Minister could give a signal that, in relation to the inclusion requirement, we set some quite different heights on what we want to do in relation to the incorporation, that is to say, in relation to the product that the consumer should take from such an advanced biofuel plant. We could start with a 5-10 per cent, maybe raise it to 15-20 per cent. If we go to Brazil and elsewhere, you have much higher mixing requirements than we see in Denmark. And I also think that this could be a factor in relation to the treading surface we have talked about in the past, where we do not have time to get 11⁄2 million electric cars out in no time ■ that we could have something here in the intermediate phase and also in the future in air and sea traffic that could really help to reach 70 per cent. and also later the 100 percent. in 2050.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220122128	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220122130	It is certain that it must of course be taken into account that the legislation, including the incorporation requirements that you make, can help to operate a market. Conversely, we also have to say that we have unfortunately also seen examples of thinking that a market has been run and therefore adapted the legislation to it, and then the market has not really been able to deliver, and then there are some pretty big problems. But yes, I certainly agree that this is one of the things we need to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220122152	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220122154	Thank you to the Minister and thank you for this good debate. As rapporteur for the questioners, I am very pleased that we have succeeded in putting pressure on the government and that we must now have some negotiations before the summer break. And I understand that the Minister will be calling for negotiations as early as next week, and I would like to sign for that. We are extremely pleased about that. But now it is such a law of nature that more will have more, so I hope that it will not just go on in negotiations that it will not just go on talking but that we will also see some clarification. Therefore, I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister expects us to have a clarification on what will happen to biofuels after 2020 and that we will have that clarification before the summer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220122237	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220122238	It is quite difficult to answer because, as has emerged from today's debate, it depends on extremely many factors. I understand that there has been a little bit of ambiguity about what the legislation is actually saying today. I don't understand. Everyone who is here has, of course, been involved in negotiations, and most of them have also been involved in making the agreement. However, I am just making sure that a detailed note is sent to the rapporteurs so that there is at least no doubt there. However, it is clear that we hope to have a long-term solution, and that will be part of the action plans we are going to negotiate. What is the result and the chronology of it, and when something can come into force etc., I cannot, of course, stand here and say anything about at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220122319	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220122320	There is indeed a lack of clarity as to what is applicable in the field of biofuels. The legislation we have made applies only to 2020, where we have a requirement of 7.6%. the incorporation of biofuels. Are we going back to the level we had in 2019? There is confusion about this, and the market does not really know that either. The Left wants us to stay at the level we now have, and I understand there are many others who want that too. That is why it is very relevant to hear: what are the Minister's expectations of when we will be able to clarify what applies to biofuels by 2020? Are we going down to the level we had in 2019 or are we continuing at the level we have in 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220122357	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220122358	I do not know if I have heard the rapporteurs say that they will expect us to maintain what we have done this year. In other words, we made a temporary solution because we were faced with a problem. There had been a government that had done nothing for four years, a target to be met in the European Union. And now we need to make more long-term solutions. And, as I said, where we end up at that point and when we end up there, of course, I cannot say anything about now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220122428	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220122430	I would also like to thank you for the debate, and I am pleased that we have been able to get a vote, in which we actually had the governing party itself sign the request that the government be asked to submit a long-term plan that we can negotiate before the summer recess, on CO2 I have a question. The alternative propellant we know best today and are best described is electricity. And I would just like to ask the Minister whether he has seen any scenarios for the transport sector where we reach the 70% target and where there are less than one million electric cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220122505	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220122506	I dare not stand here on the platform and deny that I may have seen it, but I cannot recall such a scenario. I would also say that I have not really seen any scenarios that are not based on huge uncertainties yet. And this may give me the opportunity to make two or three comments on something else that has also been in the debate, namely that the market can cope with a great deal of this, other rapporteurs have mentioned this, but we have shown in the past, not least in the energy sector, how policy-making really has an impact on how the market works. And that's why I think the bet we've made on power-to-x and other things is absolutely necessary and absolutely right.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220122552	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220122553	There is, of course, a whole sector out there tripping, both the whole transport sector and, in fact, those who have to build the infrastructure for the electric cars. And now that the government's three partnerships, which the Minister has talked about, come up with their recommendations, and if it turns out that all three partnerships have at least one million electric cars in the scenario, can we not agree that we can make a political decision that this is the investment framework for the electricity sector out there, so that the minimum is that we have to prepare for one million electric cars? Then the rest of us will have to deal with the charges, so we'll actually get those electric cars going. Isn't it a decision we could make so we don't have to jam it all? Otherwise we simply won't make it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220122633	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220122635	No, I don't think it's gonna be the right way around to go. The previous government was actually just out to say: Think of a figure of 1 million electric cars. And then they put forward a policy that, as far as I remember, had potentially been able to get 1,000 electric cars on the street. We will not be in that situation. We need to ensure that there is coherence between means and objectives. And just to remind people who had to listen and watch what we are talking about, one must also say that we have a huge problem in terms of the fact that we have arranged the Danish tax system so that it is a very, very large amount of revenue that we are getting into cars that are helping to finance the welfare state. And that is why it is clear that I cannot, of course, stand here and spend many, many billions of dollars without finding a solution to it, and I really think everyone here must agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220122723	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220122725	Yes, but after all, the Minister agrees that it is necessary to set objectives, some rather specific objectives it could, for example. be 1 million electric cars. Otherwise, it will be left in the memory of the discussion I have had with Mr. Ole Birk Olesen just to the market and see what happens. No, it is in here that we make the demands, and if we have a vision, a requirement, that there should be 1 million electric cars on the street by 2030, then we have to conform to it, and then we have to make those demands for charging infrastructure and what else needs to be space. So I have to admit that I am a little uneasy about the Minister saying that we should be careful not to get very firm, for example. on a claim for 1 million electric cars or whatever it might be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220122812	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220122813	After all, we have agreed on this when we negotiated the Climate Act, and I believe that there is agreement among the parties behind the understanding paper that we should also look at indicators targets, and that could be done, for example. We are talking about a certain number of electric cars, but it could also be something else. So it's not like I'm saying that it's quite on the moon to set the target you could do that, but I'm probably not going to stand on the basis of the debate we've had today and say: Well, now I feel so much more enlightened, and then I just mention that figure. Why a million dollars? Why not 1.1 million or 900,000? I don't think that's where we are. We are where we have set an extremely ambitious 70-percent target, and we know that the transport sector has to deliver, and the transport sector is also particularly challenged because it seems that emissions will increase if we do not do something and we need to make it drop sharply. So yes, electric cars will be a very, very important part of that solution, and that is also why we are already opening negotiations next week on how to improve charging infrastructure.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220122919	Then no one else has signed up. And then, during most of his speaking time, the minister was allowed to speak to musical escorts from the demonstration outside, even a demonstration for the mime card, so we have heard it too; and perhaps we can all think about it a little bit. Mrs Bjerre, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220122948	Thank you. I am taking the floor because I would like to thank you for this good debate we have had today. I am very pleased that we have ended up with a broad proposal for adoption, in other words that we are standing here as a broad parliament. In this regard, Mr President, I should also like to say hello. Hans Kristian Skibby and announce that Dansk Folkeparti naturally also supports the proposal for adoption. The purpose of the Left has been to put pressure on the government. What does the government want with the green propellants? We negotiated the incorporation requirement for biofuels in the autumn, but of course only for one year for 2020. What will happen to biofuels after 2020? We need a long-term strategy and action plan. We need to get started now. The market needs clarification. With this proposal for adoption, which is therefore a broad majority behind it, we have now put pressure on the government. A majority here today strongly urges the government to take the initiative and call for negotiations. It is clear from the proposal for adoption that we must start negotiations before the summer recess... we cannot wait until the autumn. We in the Left are very pleased about that. The debate has revolved a great deal around CO2 It is important that we focus broadly on alternative propellants. At the beginning, therefore, a CO2 will also mean that we must now have a proper framework for biofuels and at least know what they are like next year. That is why we also hope that it will end not only with talk but also with a rapid clarification of what will apply next year. The transport industry needs that. That is why I am very much looking forward to the negotiations that the Minister has said he will convene. Thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220123151	We thank Mrs Bjerre from the Left. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate on this subject is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Tuesday, 25 February 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220123212	The debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220123232	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for six concrete proposals designed to strengthen efforts against shoplifting. In fact, we agree a little along the way, so I will start with the easy way, and then, as the speech progresses, I will come to the points where there is more disagreement. The government agrees that the penalty for shoplifting must be at least DKK 1,000 and that a fine for shoplifting must always be greater than the value of what has been stolen. The Government also agrees that there should be expulsion of foreigners in first-time cases of shoplifting to the extent that it will not be contrary to Denmark's international obligations. I expect to present a legislative proposal with the necessary changes in the autumn of this year. The Government has not considered raising the level of fines in cases relating to the resale of stolen goods. However, I do not wish to deny that it is appropriate to tighten up the penalties, and I have therefore asked my office to investigate it. If there is a need for punishment, it will also be raised in the autumn in the context of tightening the level of fines. But, unfortunately, we are not entirely in agreement anymore. The Government will not go further with a proposal that it should be possible to confiscate legal goods if a kiosk is convicted of the resale of stolen goods. Of course, I fully agree that there should be no selling of stolen goods in kiosks and shops. But when it is discovered, it is the fence product that needs to be confiscated, and the kiosk owner must be punished by fines or imprisonment. The government does not engage in any form of extra punishment where legally purchased goods are to be confiscated. Having said that, the police must of course do a thorough job and ensure that the kiosk owners can document where they have their goods from. Nor will the Government go further with the proposal that traders should be able to publish surveillance images of suspected perpetrators. It is the police, not the citizens, who have to investigate crime. In the Code of Procedure we have rules on when the police may publish, for example. surveillance footage of suspected perpetrators. This isn't about protecting criminals. It is, on the one hand, about ensuring that innocent people are not hanged out in public and, on the other hand, about protecting the police investigation. Because it is the police who have the expertise to assess what steps are necessary to take in an investigation. Then there is the proposal that the police should be able to grant a zone ban to a shoplifter whose shoplifter strikes repeatedly in the same area. The National Police have pointed out that several shoplifters are likely to live in the same area in which the thefts are committed and, moreover, there will often be quite young people. This has implications for the proportionality assessment that the police are required to carry out when deciding on a zone ban. It is therefore not certain that in practice the police will be able to impose a ban on zones. In addition, a person living in the area where he or she has been banned from the zone will still be allowed to move in the area to get to and from his home and do daily chores. If, on the other hand, there are people who are not connected to the area, my best bet is that the thieves simply find another area. I do not think, therefore, that the possibility of notifying zone bans will have much effect. In the case of foreigners, I think we should focus on expulsion and not on zone bans. Nor will the government go further with the proposal that stores that find that the police do not come when a shoplifting is reported should have state-paid private guards. I am fundamentally opposed to state-paid private security in Denmark. We have a police force to ensure our safety. We must combat the causes of the problems in this case, in case the police do not have sufficient resources and not the symptoms, namely that the police do not come or do not come quickly enough. What I would like to talk about in this context is how to ensure that the police have the right tools and resources to ensure security, and that is one of the things we need to discuss when we talk about the vicinity of the negotiations on the major agreement for the police and the prosecution's economy for the coming years that we are in the middle of. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. However, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for focusing on the subject, because the government generally agrees that action against shoplifting must be strengthened. That is why, as I said this autumn, the government will put forward a legislative proposal which will tighten the penalties and guarantee the possibility of expulsion as far as possible. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220123735	Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from Dansk Folkeparti, who has questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220123739	Thank you, sir. President. I would like to acknowledge the Minister's statement on the government's position on the proposal. I am, of course, tired of the fact that the government cannot see the same absurdities as the Danish People's Party can. I think it is something that has been visible too far, by far the majority, at least which is outside Christiansborg and perhaps works or is very much within the Danish retail trade and in the Danish shops in general. The minister mentions, for example, that you will not be involved in confiscating the kiosk's warehouse. That really surprises me a lot, because I actually asked you earlier that was then, sir. Holger K. Nielsen was the Minister of Taxation, how many of the fines were charged because of kiosk fraud that was actually paid. And there was the shameful answer that out of fines for 100 million. kr. only a third did it. In the rest of the cases, you were creative and found clever ways to avoid it by changing ownership in convenience stores etc., and we ended up unfortunately with a situation where the fines were discharged, but no money came in. Why, though, will the government not be involved in confiscating the warehouse in order to put pressure on the kiosk owners?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220123849	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220123850	First of all, I must reject the premise that is being laid down at the outset on this point that we cannot see the absurdity. We're • and I think that's broad in the Parliament • worried about shoplifting and heeling. That is also why a number of initiatives have been taken to deal with this, including the action plan that was drawn up under the previous government, which we were also part of not the government, but the action plan and the initiatives that were put in place there, just as I have mentioned, namely the punishment that will come in the autumn. On the subject of confiscation, as proposed, I would say: it is not because we do not want to be involved in confiscation. What we encounter in the proposal, as formulated by the Danish People's Party, is that it is the legal warehouse that should be confiscated. It is one thing to confiscate the illegal warehouse, but confiscating the legal warehouse is quite a different form of sanction than what is normally in the confiscation tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220123956	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220123958	Nevertheless, it is a system that can actually be applied in the transport sector in particular, where, for example, immediate penalties can be applied, and where you can also make bets against both truck and everything else, even though the truck and trailer may not be owned by the same trucker. Then you can confiscate the entire vehicle. Values can be confiscated there. That is why I wonder why the government will not also be able to seize the assets of a kiosk that has repeatedly sold stolen goods. That is what we are proposing that it is in cases where they have repeatedly been fined and where they have not paid and then you come out and discover that they keep selling stolen goods in their stores. In our view, this is an aggravating circumstance, which is why they must also have withdrawn their legal stock in order to cover the fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220124044	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220124045	It would be worth considering if there were no other ways to go. But the way to go here is, of course, fines and prisons, including the fact that those who may have committed the illegal acts must be set in motion in order to impose the funds needed to pay the fines.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220124106	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220124109	Thank you for the floor. In relation to the sharing of surveillance images, technological developments have been the case that we all increasingly have access to images of each other, and the premise that we did not want to share images of each other is perhaps not exactly the same today as it was 20 or 30 years ago. I fully recognise that if you share a picture of someone you hang out as a perpetrator of a crime, and that is not the case, you have done more harm than you have done well, and we should not have a popular court. But could the Minister not consider whether more use could be made of these surveillance images and, at the same time, impose an increased penalty for sharing surveillance images which are not of perpetrators? In other words, if you have a case in which the alleged perpetrator is not convicted of the crime, then you have a punishment for the person who shared the picture, so that private people do not just divide images and hang people in a row. Could it be a consideration that the Minister would make?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220124225	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220124226	I would like to start by saying that, for me, it is important that it is the police and not the citizens who are investigating crime. After all, the government thinks it is relevant that we give the police access to surveillance photos to investigate crime, because we know that it seems to be some of the things that can lead to crime being solved. When we think it is a big step to say that private individuals can share it, it is precisely because of what the questioner himself also mentions, namely that it is, of course, a question of ensuring that innocent people are hanged out in public. If the answer to that is to say that if someone does it anyway, they will be punished, then that is the way the legal situation is today. Well, if you illegally share pictures, you'll be punished for it. It should also be noted that some of the factors involved in the fight against shoplifting are the possibility for operators to share pictures with other operators. So you've gone a bit along that way. But the risk of innocents being hanged out is therefore worrying.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220124332	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220124334	[Sound emission]... because we have recently had a very specific case, as the Minister is probably also aware, where a mother has surveillance photos of a man who exposes himself to two little girls. She's giving the security footage to the police, and it turns out after a while that the police have done nothing more about this case. So there's a flasher in the area, and no one grabs him. The mother then shares the pictures on social media, and he is arrested under civilian arrest and has also received his sentence and punishment. The dilemma is that the mother gets a punishment that's harder than a sentence that's worse and harder than the penalty that the criminal got. If we want to increase legal certainty and the sense of justice in our society, is it right to maintain that it should be so?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220124427	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220124428	So, as is described now, the basic problem is that the police do not follow up on having the images handed down and have not started the investigation which should take place on the basis of the pictures, which would be relevant. I think we should be very, very careful about granting access to private law enforcement, because it is easy to stand. That is why I think we should stick to the fact that we have a single police force, a police force that is responsible for combating crime here in Denmark, and that is where we must ensure that they have the tools and resources that are needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220124458	Then no one else has signed up to brief remarks to the Minister. That is why we move on to the rapporteur's line, and first of all for the Socialists, Mr President. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220124512	Thank you. I'm here on behalf of our legal rapporteur, sir. Jeppe Bruus. I would like to begin by thanking the Danish People's Party for this resolution, which the Social Democrats believe contains a number of sensible elements. Like the Danish People's Party, we in the Social Democratic Party are concerned with strengthening efforts against shoplifting, which was also reflected in the Minister's speech a few moments ago. As the Minister said, the government is going to increase the penalty for shoplifting and look at how we can more effectively expel foreigners in the first case of shoplifting. The Minister has also asked the Ministry of Justice to look into the proposal to tighten up the penalty for heeling. So here too we share the intention and intention of the proposal in relation to the problem described by the proposal with the Danish People's Party as the proposer. However, when the Social Democrats cannot support the resolution, it is because we do not believe that it should be possible to confiscate legal stocks of goods and thus risk getting out there where there is double punishment. We believe that it is necessary to punish heeling with fines and, in more serious cases, also with prison. Similarly, we do not believe that shops and others should be given the opportunity to share surveillance images on social media, for example, as this could lead to law enforcement and investigation being private and being carried out by citizens and not by police. We want to stick to the Danish tradition that it is the police who are investigating. They are the ones who have expertise in this area. In the same way, it is also our view that if you have been subjected to crime, we must ensure that the police have the resources to investigate that crime and come to the rescue of private citizens. It should not be private security that carries out that task. In the Social Democratic Party we fully recognise that there are examples and have been examples where citizens experience that the police do not respond to notifications. There are examples where the police are unable to react, and also examples where the police react too slowly, and this is a problem that we have to deal with. That is also why the government in the ongoing police negotiations has a very intensive focus on the need for us to have more proximity back in the police. We need to bring the police closer to the citizens who are in some cases affected by crime. So, in conclusion, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for putting forward a proposal that we partially agree with, and at least a proposal that focuses on an issue that also the Social Democrats want us to take a harder line on. So thank you for the opportunity to debate the issue, but despite the fact that there is agreement on long stretches, agreement does not allow us to support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220124815	There are, for the time being, two who have signed up for short remarks. The first is sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220124820	After all, there was nothing new from the great government party compared to what the Minister said. So, of course, I should just like to say that I regret that, after years of running, the Social Democratic Labour Party has not become wiser. Because it is fine to go down here to say that we agree so far along the way with these seven concrete proposals, as we make it, that is fine. However, I have just noted that at least four of them have been rejected blankly, and then there is such a little distance between the snaps, in relation to what you agree and what you do not agree on. Perhaps the rapporteur should acknowledge this rather than put on the positive glasses. I therefore agree with the rapporteur that it is good to be positive, but surely you should not wrap your own position into cake paper and everything else and then just like to talk. The Socialists are opposed to this motion for a resolution far along the way. Four out of the seven points have been rejected. Perhaps the rapporteur should have mentioned this rather than concentrating more on the three things that might be supported. I just want to ask the rapporteur about the fines. What do you think of them? When you talk about more fines, what do you think when you see that the fines far down the road are not paid?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220124934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220124935	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. It is surely a question of whether the glass is half full or half empty, and I think that, in the rapporteur's speech, I was talking about the areas where there is agreement and also about the areas where consensus does not suffice. This must be the case once again. I and the Social Democrats are of the opinion that it is not satisfactory if the fines are not paid, and that is something we can discuss in connection with the forthcoming proposal that the government is putting forward, in other words how it might be possible to address this issue. This does not alter our basic position on the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220125017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220125019	No, and that does not change the fact that I have already asked this specific question back in January. I have in fact asked two questions to the Minister for Taxation. And I have had what is called a temporary answer, and since then I have not heard any more about these specific issues in terms of the fact that the fines are not being paid. I asked Holger K. Nielsen exactly the same thing when he was Minister of Taxation, and then nothing happened. So perhaps I think that the Socialists and the government should take a little more care to say that it has been shown for years now that more fines are being imposed but that the fines are not being paid. I think the rapporteur should reflect on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220125053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220125054	The rapporteur would like to reflect on this. I'm gonna share sir. Hans Kristian Skibby's frustration that fines have been issued in this country, which, of course, is due but not paid. The Social Democratic Party is happy to enter into a discussion on how we can get this problem right, because of course that is not satisfactory.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220125114	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund. But before I say that it would be a great help to us who are sitting here that, if you want to speak twice, you just push back in the second time, because then the microphone will also go a little faster. It is not a matter of course that we want to speak, for we have spoken, but not a duty of pronunciation, as we usually say. Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220125134	Thank you. Social democracy will not help to allow citizens to publish images of suspected perpetrators to some extent. This will not be done in the interests of legal certainty. As I said earlier, I have full respect for the fact that we should not have popular courts in Denmark. Having said that, there is a huge dilemma in the fact that we have been hearing for years that the police have no opportunity to investigate cases, and that is everything from shoplifting to burglary to sex crimes, where citizens have image or video material that would mean that we would actually be able to solve far more of the crimes that are being committed. When we in New Citizens are ready to discuss this with a slightly more open mind, it is because we know that when the sense of justice weakens, that is, when the citizens experience that they can see the images of the perpetrator, and they may even know who he is, because he may be living in the city, but the police do not take care of the task because they have everything else they have to prioritise, then the risk of vigilante is not just by putting up the picture, but by doing everything else, yes. And when we have a legal system, it's to prevent vigilante. So I would like the rapporteur to reply in some way to the question whether, in the social democracy, it is not understood that there are citizens out there who are so deeply frustrated about it when they have pictures, while the criminals are still allowed to walk free.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220125304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220125305	Yes, I have a strong understanding of that. I can easily understand the frustration expressed by the rapporteur, and I can just as easily understand the frustration that I think citizens have if they find that crime is committed against them and that they have pictures of the alleged perpetrator, but that, despite this, the matter does not move forward. That is far from satisfactory. This is not satisfactory for any of us as a society, and it is, of course, particularly unsatisfactory for the citizens who are affected. So that is quite unsatisfactory and we do not disagree on that. However, the question is what to do about it, and I believe that the most effective thing is to ensure that the police have the resources to investigate crime, including crime of the kind mentioned by Mrs Pernille Vermund as an example. We need to ensure that, and if we do so, we will also avoid the dilemmas of private people being able to publish pictures and thus risk hanging out innocent people and also risk damaging police investigations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220125415	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220125416	Thank you. If it were so that with a snap or with some amount of money we could say that now we are quite sure that this is not also a problem in 1 year, 2 years, 5 years or 10 years, then peace be with it, because then you don't have to go on the other way. But the dilemma is that we have not been able to solve this, we have not been able to provide the police with more resources and solve these problems, and we are in a situation today where the police are completely downgraded, among other things. burglary and shoplifting, because there are other tasks that are more important, and unfortunately that will always be the case, no matter what financial framework you have. Can the Social Democratic Party guarantee that, if we now set aside money for this, we will not be in a situation in two or four years' time when we will hear shopkeepers again who find that the police are not coming or do not have the resources to solve these tasks? Can the Social Democratic Party guarantee that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220125516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220125517	It is always tempting as a politician to throw themselves over guarantees about this and that, but I do not think that is wise. I do not think that with the next multiannual police agreement we will be able to overcome discussions on police priorities, but it is the ambition of the Social Democracy and Government, together with the other parties of the Folketing, to create a police agreement that will ensure that the police get closer to the citizens and thus have a better chance of investigating the crime that affects ordinary citizens, so that we get beyond these challenges of citizens experiencing that the police do not respond. That is, of course, not satisfactory, and that is what we need to find solutions together to ensure that we prevent it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220125557	We thank the Socialist rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220125613	Thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, which in many ways is a very good proposal. There are several things that we in the Left can easily support, for example. that the penalties are lifted. This was, moreover, one of the initiatives launched by the previous government itself, namely the action called "Security for shopkeepers" that came in November 2018. But if the Left is not able to support the resolution in its entirety, it is because it will allow traders who are exposed to shoplifting to be allowed to publish surveillance images of shoplifters themselves, for example. on Facebook, but also elsewhere online. It is important for me to make it clear with seven-inch nails that of course I have a great understanding of the reason why some shopkeepers have a great urge to share these pictures of shoplifters in public, because if you first find that one or more thieves just fill the bags and bags of goods from your store and wander out of the store again, or if organized thieves steal as they please, there is no doubt that it must be extremely frustrating and also offensive. That is why it is not possible to imagine the owner in question in saying: Now we have to be able to publish these pictures and videos. This is what we saw the shop owner from Meny at Toftegaards Plads in Valby, Copenhagen. But as it is today, it is only the police who are allowed to call out criminals in public, for example through the media. This is, of course, because we need to make sure that the people who are shown in public spaces are, in fact, also some who are supposed to be perpetrators, so that we do not run the risk of getting other random people into the bargain. That is the decision of the police. It is also the police's decision whether this is a disproportionate offence, that we do not publish a picture of a 15-year-old who has stolen a Marsbar or something like that. Today, shop owners already have an opportunity to share surveillance images under a number of conditions in an internal IT system. I know that is one of the things that shopkeepers like, and that means, among other things, that one can warn one another very quickly if there is a suspicion that there is a thief at stake, for example. the area of proximity. However, it should not be up to the individual citizen or businessman to judge whether it should be published in a wider context. However, it is also the case today that the police have an obligation to deal very quickly with these cases so that they can publish the pictures, and fortunately they do so on a large scale. But it is essentially a police task. Having said that, as I have said, I have a great deal of understanding for those entrepreneurs who have a great deal of frustration and, of course, sometimes also have a desire to publish some of these pictures. This also means that, as I said, there are good intentions in the proposal here and that there are also a number of good elements in the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution. But we in the Left cannot therefore support the resolution as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220130006	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220130008	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his comments on our motion for a resolution, which in fact contains seven different specific initiatives, but, of course, we choose to give concrete form to and debate on the basis of what we do not like. That is fair enough, too, but I do not think it is quite right that the rapporteur should begin to make this a debate on the theft of, I do not know whether it was a Snickers or a Yankie Bar that the rapporteur mentioned. What we are dealing with here are examples such as those I have innumerable. That is, for example, the case. a shop in Silkeborg, which has been stolen two T-shirts costing 3,000 DKK. Each. They cost more than a couple of Snickers. Nevertheless, the owner risks having a sentence of up to a year and a half in prison or at least a fine if he looks it up on his facebook profile. But the owners often choose to do so because they simply act in perfection and do not know what else to do, because they are simply not properly treated when they go to the authorities with the repeated examples of crime and theft in their shops. Perhaps the rapporteur should go into the substance a little more in the light of the fact that these are not petty thefts and rapes. There is an example of a whole hill of gold rings stolen from a dragonfly in Vejle. It's not a Snickers!
ParlaMint-DK_20200220130125	Then it's Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220130127	No, and of course that's why I spent a lot of time talking about the opportunities that you already have as a store owner for sharing these photos. I can easily understand the frustration that is around. But one of the things we know actually carried out together was that the police must publish these pictures very quickly if there is anything about the talk. Now the rapporteur said that it was too bad for me to highlight only the one thing that we disagreed with, but it is very rare for us to invite you to a debate on the things we very much agree on. One often focuses in a debate on the things on which one disagrees.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220130206	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220130207	Yes, and some of what we disagree about is the right to defend ourselves as shopkeepers, for example. have a whole box of gold rings stolen. What kind of reprisals should be possible from the point of view of individual shopkeepers? We know that if it's a theft, they can't get it covered by their insurance unless it's a robbery. If it's a robbery, you can typically get better insurance coverage than if it's a simple theft. We had the case from Silkeborg, just to stay in the area we know, where someone was robbed in broad daylight for over 0.25 million. kr. in new jackets. Yet you can't figure out how to let things happen quickly when it comes to getting them wanted on Facebook, and you know who did it. There's indisputable evidence. The ones you have photos of on Facebook are really the ones who go into the store and run out the door again with jackets for 0.25 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220130259	Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220130300	Yes, and that's also why I highlighted the internal network, which I know the businessmen are actually very happy about, and where you can warn each other using these pictures, and the fact that the police have an obligation to work very quickly on these cases, so that they can publish these pictures and thus want these people publicly. I would also like to say that we are in favour, for example. the higher fines, and that was actually my introduction to the speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220130337	We are grateful to the rapporteur of the Left, and Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby is the rapporteur for the proposers, he will be given the floor at the end. So we go directly to the rapporteur on the Radical Left, Mr President. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220130409	Thank you. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for focusing on shoplifting. Of course, theft, stealing and other forms of enrichment crime must be combated. For 50 years my grandfather had a grocery store, which later became a Matas, in the East Jutland city of Hammel, and I am therefore well aware of the frustrations of shoplifting. Among the proposals, there is a proposal that shops should be able to publish surveillance videos publicly, and the Radical Left cannot support this, since of course it must be reserved to the police. We are not in favour of such a kind of vigilante, because it can, of course, suspect completely innocent people. The motion for a resolution states that these are surveillance videos of shoplifters. It is therefore only the courts and courts who can determine whether they are really shoplifters. It is not a matter for a store to assess whether they are shoplifters or not. Another suggestion is that the public should be required to pay private security for shops if the police have not moved out to a store on several occasions. It sounds a little expensive, and this is where I cannot quite follow the Danish People's Party's proposal. For the many new private guards must be financed by the increased fines proposed by the Danish People's Party, but I assume that the purpose of this resolution is that there should be significantly fewer shoplifting and fewer cases of heeling. So if fewer crimes are committed, as the authors expect, then there will be no more revenue, even if the fines increase. So either the proposers think that the resolution has no effect on the number of crimes, because then more money comes into the box with the increased fines to be used for private security, or the proposal is not funded if the number of crimes falls. And if this proposal is aimed to a large extent at shops with T-shirts costing 3,000 kroner, I think it is such an easily manageable number of shops where it occurs, and then it could be that the police and shopkeepers, by just talking a little, could organize it so that you could find a way to secure these T-shirts better in the store, or something like that. So I have to say that the Radical Left cannot support the motion for a resolution. And I welcome from the Enhedslisten and say that the same applies to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220130652	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220130653	Thank you. I would therefore like to acknowledge the rapporteur's response to the comments on this motion for a resolution, which I consider to be very topical in relation to the challenges that Danish retail shops are really facing in the year 2020. I would almost say that I was unfortunately confirmed in my prejudices. The Radicals could not take this debate without having to name some of those who commit the thefts as innocent people. And you are not innocent if a store has incontrovertible proof that a man or a woman or several people walk into the store and, for example, take 250 jackets for DKK 250,000. So, there is no reason at all to say that it is not they who are thieves when they go out of the store with values of a quarter of a million kroner without paying for the goods. That is why it makes good sense, as we propose, to have this right only in those cases and there are very many of them where the shopkeeper is 100%. sure that it is the thief who really stands and puts the goods in the mist bag or carry bag or around the backpack or hides them under the blouse or whatever they can come up with. These are the people that the Radical Left calls innocent people. I just don't think you can be familiar with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220130816	Thank you. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220130817	Whether or not anyone is guilty, whether or not they have stolen something, is not a matter for politicians in this Chamber, nor is it a matter for businessmen. It is a matter for the courts that, on the basis of concrete evidence, determines the issue of guilt. There is in Denmark what we call an presumption of innocence. That means you're innocent until proven guilty. I hope that is not what the questioner thinks should be done about. I didn't really hear that, but it's just the way the Radical Left is organized, that is to say we follow the legal principles that apply in Denmark. We have to hold on to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220130854	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220130855	But if you're innocent until proven otherwise, what would you have against your picture coming out on a facebook page, even if you haven't stolen anything? If you have pure flour in your bag, my God, I just don't see any problem with that. On the contrary, I see a major problem in the fact that shops today do not have the opportunity to draw reasonable, decent assurances against simple theft. I think it is a big scandal that you are better insured against robbery than against theft. I think it's a problem that you just have these cases where it's whole boxes of gold rings.I have that from a dragonfly in Vejle; it's a whole new case and other things where it's big values that are stolen, and then here in the Folketing you just make it a case that it's some who steal small things, make small rapes of Snickers and Bounty and everything else. It is specific in these cases where there is no doubt as to who has stolen the goods in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220130950	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220130951	I would find it deeply problematic if we were to take the competences away from the police. It is their competence, it is they who can publish surveillance videos. I have great confidence in the police, which is why it would be problematic if innocent people risked putting up a video of themselves. At the same time, I am also sorry that the Danish People's Party has, in the last few years, downgraded its efforts, among others. shoplifting. This has been done by sending police officers to the border instead. Last year there were 367 development projects in the police districts. You could start by prioritizing this kind of real police task instead of just sending the police on development projects and other tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220131031	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left. Then it is in a moment Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk representing the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220131059	Thank you. As most people in the Chamber can see, today I am a substitute because our legal rapporteur, unfortunately, could not be here, but it should not, of course, prevent the SF from also joining us today. In SF, we would like to start by acknowledging that DF has thought out of the box in terms of stopping shoplifting and helping the many hard-working shop owners who need attention on this issue, which is also serious. We will not deny that some of the initiatives may be needed, but there are particularly two reasons why we cannot support the proposal today. The worst thing about the proposal is that shopkeepers should be allowed to publish pictures of any shoplifters. In SF's optics, it can never be a private task to do so. This requires that there is an authority that has seen the film through, which has found that something has happened that is not going to happen and that has ensured that there is no outsider in the picture, and can respond to and pick up any inquiries that may be made. We do not think it can be anything other than a task of authority. Then there is the possibility that the public will pay for a guard if the police cannot come. We're not concerned about that either. What we really want is to strengthen the police so that it has more power to combat the crime that we are experiencing in our neighbourhood. Right now, we are actually discussing a police settlement where we rightly need to discuss this sort of thing, and here it is our desire to strengthen the close police force in particular, so that it has more powers to prevent precisely the crime that we experience in our everyday and everyday lives, and which must also help to strengthen the general security of our countries, and this also applies, of course, to shoplifting. As far as the other proposals on tightening up are concerned, we will not deny that this could be an idea, but we think it would be best if it could be examined by a committee, as tightening up itself is not what is doing so. Often there is an increased risk of detection before it works. This is about the police and, as I said, it is a task in connection with the police settlement. Therefore, the SF cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220131319	We are grateful to the SF rapporteur and then we must move on to the Conservative People's Party. Mrs. Birgitte Bergman, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220131337	Thank you. I am also a substitute today, as our legal rapporteur cannot be present either. I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for making this very relevant proposal. Of course, we should never accept crime, just as we should never accept that anyone is exposed to crime, including shoplifting. The Conservative People's Party considers it gratifying that the Danish People's Party is part of the important fight against shoplifting and heeling. We understand very well that as shopkeepers you can feel extremely frustrated when you experience time and time again that criminals go and steal in the store without being punished. That is why it has been and remains a clear priority for us to have more police officers on the street so that we can put an end to these unacceptable shoplifting practices. Specifically, we had 600 officers more by the end of 2019 than in 2015. Besides, we've secured 150 more officers for local and close police work. These are the results that I, as a Conservative, am proud of. That does not mean that we are in the finish line, on the contrary. That is why we will also do everything we can to ensure that we in the Folketing agree to have even more officers when negotiating a new police settlement. The solution to this problem is to get more officers on the street. We have had a good collaboration with the Danish People's Party in the past when it comes to getting more officers on the street. I very much hope that this will continue so that we can resolve this problem. There are many positive elements in the proposal, but unfortunately we from the Conservative People's Party cannot support the full resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220131516	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220131518	If only I had been surprised, but I have to say that unfortunately I am not. So, it is typically the Conservative People's Party that you want to illustrate that you want to take the big blows in relation to these major challenges that Danish retail trade has, but when it comes to the end, and we come up with a proposal with seven specific bids here in Parliament, then the rapporteur will not go into the substance of any of the seven bids. And that is in stark contrast to what is in the safety of shopkeepers, who actually came from the previous government in December 2018. It says in a quote from our then Conservative Minister of Justice, Søren Pape Poulsen: With this proposal we take an important step towards organised shoplifting. We stand behind the traders. We say stop to the thieves. Now we come up with seven concrete proposals that need to take a hold on this. What do the Conservatives bring? Have they made a proposal as to what they want? No, they haven't. They're only gonna shoot this down. They're not gonna make a proposal themselves, and I don't think that's entirely fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220131629	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220131629-2	Thank you. As I said, there are a great many good elements in this proposal from the Danish People's Party that the rapporteur makes. And we have also been working to get more local police officers out on the street, and we have got that, and in the new police conciliation we want to get even more police officers on the street. 'Cause it's... 'cause it's...
ParlaMint-DK_20200220131703	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220131704	It is actually quite strange: there are seven different sub-proposals in this motion for a resolution which are clearly and fairly complex, and that also applies to the comments that have been made about the motion for a resolution, but in fact I have so far only heard rejections referring to the camera discussion. But I am just surprised that the Conservative People's Party, which otherwise stands for God, king and country, and that right must be right, does not see at least a little more support for the many shops, retailers and traders who experience organized thieves coming and stealing, for example. Steals whole pallets with nesco coffee out front of Rema 1000. I think it's pathetic.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220131752	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220131800	If we are concerned about something, it is to protect and help the business community that there should be no doubt about it. Nor should there be any doubt that we are in favour of having more officers on the street. As I have said, there are many good elements in the proposal that have been put forward here, but it must never be the case that, and this is actually where we put our foot down on the full motion for a resolution • the individual shopkeeper or a citizen can be allowed to publish pictures so that they reach the public. That's where we put our foot down.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220131825	We thank the Conservative rapporteur, Mrs Birgitte Bergman. Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220131834	Thank you for the floor, President. There should be no doubt that the Alternative wants more close police; we want citizens to see and feel the presence of the police in everyday life; it creates confidence and security. Nor should there be any doubt that we are seriously looking at shoplifting. Although there is no evidence that the problem is actually on the increase, we of course believe that the police should have the resources to show up when a crime has been committed. Having said that, it seems rather curious that the Danish People's Party is complaining about a lack of police resources, while maintaining that thousands of hours must be spent guarding the border against Germany and Sweden. This is a police operation which has resulted in two defective firearms being confiscated which, according to the National Police, do not count as firearms. With the proposal, Dansk Folkeparti puts together among others. In addition, shops should be able to publish surveillance images. I find that extremely worrying. Denmark is a rule of law and should not develop into the Wild West, where vigilante groups find their own justice bypassing the judicial system. We will therefore vote against this proposal. We will not accept that a skewed priority for police resources means that we leave law enforcement to the citizens. It is crystal clear to us what should be done in relation to this problem: let us drop border controls and use some of the free resources to get more officers into the streets, so that they among other things. can take care of shoplifting and robberies. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132015	There's definitely going to be a turn-up for the music outside. I hope you guys can debate anyway. Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132025	Thank you. Approx. One third of the defendants for shoplifting are foreigners. Does the rapporteur think that there will be more foreign gangs crossing the border, filling their cars and driving out again, or does the rapporteur think that there will be fewer if border controls are removed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132047	I think it is wrong to put it so squarely, i.e. to put it like that on the tip. We can see, of course, that, whether we have border controls or not, there is no proven difference in relation to organised crime in Denmark. In fact, organized crime is on the increase. So I do not have the data on it, but on the basis of what I see in the public debate, I do not believe that it will contribute to the decline of organised crime, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132122	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132122-2	In New Citizens, we believe that border controls should not only be there when you drive into the country, but should also be there when you drive out of the country to ensure that these gangs, which come in particular from Eastern Europe, cannot drive into the country, fill their cars and then drive out again. Does the rapporteur not recognize this at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132204	What worries the alternative is that, instead of betting on good old-fashioned investigations by the police and services near our citizens, New Citizens are betting on border controls that we have spent 1.2 billion. kr. On for now. But we still have shoplifting. We still have organized crime. It is a pity for me to see that new citizens give priority to border controls rather than to prioritising citizens' security, rather than giving priority to the police when citizens need them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132239	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132240	I would almost say that is typical of the alternative. Any discussion on better conditions and legal rights for law-abiding citizens makes such a discussion about whether there is border control or not. The rapporteur mentioned, as an example, that there should have been only two recorded cases in a whole year in relation to border controls. There's thousands of them! In the area of trafficking in human beings alone, more charges have been made, plus all those who have been involved in illegal drugs, etc., who are being flown in, stolen goods and so on. There have been many examples of how our border controls have worked. On top of that, it must of course be said that it also has a criminal-preventive effect that a country and a nation are allowed to exercise control along their external borders. I think the alternative might have to take that with it. I think, according to the Minister of Justice's figures, the number of charges made by people from Romania for theft last year was over a thousand. And then you just stand down here and say, "I don't have any evidence." Excuse me, I just think it's too poor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132348-2	And I think it is too poor that the Danish People's Party has no respect for our former generations, who have fought for legal certainty, who have built a society in which we have a three-part power, a society in which citizens have freedoms, and instead of making proposals that challenge our legal certainty, which challenges citizens' freedoms. It may well be that the Danish People's Party wants to go down the road where the rule of law is torn apart slowly, but surely. The alternative won't.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132426	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132427	No. It is good that there are different parties for which we can vote. This has nothing to do with the issue of civil rights, as the rapporteur has said. What about the rights of all those who have their values stolen from their own retail stores? I have an example which I mentioned earlier: a goldsmith shop with relatively few employees and a small turnover in Vejle. There's a man in there stealing a whole hill with gold rings. You don't have any rights. You can call the police, and they're not coming. That's the right you have. And then you stand down here talking about giving rights to everyone and to God and every man. No, you don't!
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132504	The end does not justify the means. The end does not justify the means! We need to stop the shoplifting, but we need to do that by having the near police. We have to do that by having a police come when you call them. But we cannot, because we fear crime and we fear shoplifting, slowly, but surely, pull the rule of law apart, as this proposal suggests. I would urge the Danish People's Party to support in the police conciliation the local police so that citizens can feel real security and not symbolic security as at border controls, and then it is crucial that we do not tore the rule of law apart, as this proposal proposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132550	Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132552	Thank you. Now there have been a number of questions about border controls, and I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not agree that the facts about border controls are that we have spent over 1.25 billion. kr. and over 2.3 million man-hours on it and especially on checking the passports of innocent Danes. You haven't even found a gun. A couple of slingshots and some pepper sprays have been found. So does the rapporteur not agree that if we targeted those resources and if we got rid of the legal reservation, we would have better opportunities to combat cross-border and organised crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132626-2	It could not be said more clearly: we spend many man-hours and years' work and 1.25 billion. kr. In addition, there is a need for the Member States to take the necessary measures to ensure that border controls are carried out. The Minister of Justice replied here in December that not a single gun has been found. Two defective firearms have been found, and the National Police estimate that if they cannot be made usable, they do not count in the statement that firearms have been found. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, how much investigation could be made and how much crime could be solved if we spent the 1.25 billion. kr. to tackle crime in a targeted manner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132712	Sir. Kristian Hegaard does not wish to speak for another brief comment. Then it's Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132721	Then I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that there are over 7 000 people who have been rejected at the border and that the police have also caught a terrorist because of border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132735	Now, as I also said to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, I am not aware of that figure. However, if Mrs Inger Løjberg can see that it appears anywhere from those figures, I would like to confirm it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132751	Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132752	I'm gonna have to promise you, sir. Sikandar Siddique has a complete record of how many weapons have been seized, but it is a little strange that he only looks to that side. I would now like to say that it is not entirely irrelevant that more than 7 000 people have been rejected at the border, and I would at least say that it is not entirely irrelevant that a terrorist has actually been taken at border controls. I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132821	That is certainly something we should be happy about, that is, that we have caught a tourist at the border. I just cannot help thinking about how many terrorists we would be able to catch if we targeted resources instead of spending them only on arbitrary border controls and surveillance. It is simply a political issue. Mrs Inger Løjberg wants border controls, and we believe that it is much more effective if we could spend the much, much money we spend on targeted investigation rather than arbitrary investigation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132857	It was lucky it wasn't a tourist. Then we have to move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens' Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220132915	Shoplifters who pull goods off the shelves, stick them in the bag or under the jacket, or even drag entire boxes of goods out of stores without paying, are unfortunately everyday in Denmark. Even though many stores catch the perpetrators on surveillance cameras, the criminals are all too often released. The number of reported shoplifting is fairly stable, but shop owners experience far more crimes than are reported by the police, for many shopkeepers find it useless to report shoplifters. They find that the police still do not respond to their reviews and therefore many fail to report shoplifting to the police. It's a slippery slope. Crimes should never pay off. Crimes must be solved and punished, and foreigners who either as organized thieves or on their own come to Denmark to commit crime must leave. About one third of all the charges for shoplifting in Denmark are foreign nationals • one third. This is crazy! Let me remind you that the proportion of citizens with foreign citizenship in Denmark is less than 10%. There is also an extreme over-representation of criminals among foreigners in this area, and we need to take this seriously. New citizens support the intention of this motion for a resolution, but, unfortunately, when it comes to the specific points, that is not all we can accept, as has been said here. The motion for a resolution calls for an increase in the fine for shoplifting. Of course, we support that. We also back the idea of believing it or not to expel criminal foreigners in first-time shoplifting cases. In the past, new citizens have themselves proposed that it should be possible for citizens to publish imagery of perpetrators to a greater extent than at present. It is obvious that there are too many crimes in which the crimes are left unsolved and that in many cases the wrongdoers find that the police are not giving priority to cases, despite the fact that they have pictures or video material from surveillance cameras. That is unacceptable. We believe, however, that such an extension of the possibilities of catching criminals on their own should be closely linked to the tightening up of the penalty for hanging innocent people out; for we should not create a situation in Denmark where we will have a people's court. New citizens can support confiscating parts of warehouses in the repeat cases where there are unpaid fines, but we cannot support the general confiscation of entire warehouses. Nor do we believe that the public should finance private guards. There are therefore parts of the resolution which are entirely in line with the policy of the new citizens, and in general the matter is too important for us to simply reject the resolution. It is essential for the sense of justice that shoplifting reported to the police is taken seriously; that the police have the resources to prioritize shoplifting; and that shoplifting is judged and punished. We therefore hope that the DF will consider adapting the proposal so that the points on which we may be able to agree in a wider circle of parties will remain and the others will be deleted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220133302	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. There were no comments. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220133311	Thank you. We think that this is a sympathetic and in many areas a good motion for a resolution tabled here by the Danish People's Party. There are parts of what we can support because we also believe that shoplifting is an under-priority area for law enforcement in Denmark. It is a more serious problem when people abuse the property of others than the mentality of the police say it is. In general, I think that the police are spending too little effort on both shoplifting and burglary, and we would like to change that. To the individual elements, I can say the following about the proposal: that shops should be allowed to publish images of criminals caught in sticking something in their own pocket without paying for it, we are in favour of it. I can also say that the idea of expelling non-Danish nationals by shoplifting is one of our favourites, if there are several cases, not the first time. We are in favour of foreign citizens being able to be thrown out of Denmark if they commit personal crime for the first time and if they commit other crimes in several cases. So with a slight adjustment of that, we'd be here too. On the other hand, there is the element in particular that the public authorities must pay for private security guards for shops that are very exposed to shoplifting. We cannot agree with that. We believe that it is part of the private responsibility for a store that opens its premises to customers and the public that the private store then also takes its share of responsibility for enforcing that people behave properly in the store's own area. So we fear a very large bill there and we basically do not believe that funding private security guards is a public responsibility. So for these reasons we will vote against the motion for a resolution if it is put to the vote in this way, but we can well imagine adjustments to the motion for a resolution which will enable us to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220133547	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220133549	Thank you for the floor. In relation to the expulsion of criminal foreigners, who are for the first time taken into a shop, I assume that the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party distinguish between whether you are below a de minimis threshold, which may be about taking bland self-sweets or a chocolate bar, or whether you drive entire goods out of the country from shops. I just need to hear about something. If, as a criminal foreigner, you come here, empty a store, drive the goods out of the country and are discovered for the first time, does the rapporteur really think that you should just be allowed to do the day after returning to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220133633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220133634	No, we don't think so. And then it's also a robbery, not a shop robbery, and robberies are something else. So if you engage in outright robbery or perilous crime, we do not want to see that person again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220133648	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220133649	When we talk shoplifting and these people that you look at the surveillance cameras and saw it when these TV shows were running, we're not talking about robberies, we're talking about people who take boxes and go out and put them in their car, and then they drive away. So it's shoplifting of a gross nature, but there isn't a threatening behavior, there aren't people who get hurt, it's just just and just an obscene behavior that's violently cross-border for the people who lose values.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220133728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220133730	With the border case mentioned here by Mrs Pernille Vermund, I am not really fully aware of what our view of this matter is. We are in favour of people being thrown out of the country immediately if they are actually robbing shops or committing other perilous crimes. We are also in favour of the fact that if you commit shoplifting or bicycle theft, for example, you should not be allowed to become a national of Denmark. But we have this policy, which is that if you steal an ice cream in a kiosk, it is not only a reason for expulsion if you have a permanent residence permit in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220133808	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220133818	Thank you. I would therefore like, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, to acknowledge that today we had the opportunity to discuss the terms of the retail trade in order to counter and prevent further theft from their shops. The Danish People's Party has long called for clear and significantly improved rights for the owners of the retail trade and also their employees, both in relation to prevention and to come after them, they so really also hold back for theft in their stores, and some parties have signed up positively and in a good dialogue there are also some who have supported the seven elements of the motion for a resolution, but there are, I think, some who have so much sabotaged this debate. Now the alternative rapporteur has left the room, but the radical rapporteur is still here, and I would say that if the two rapporteurs had been ministers, there would have been a storm here afterwards when it comes to the statements that have been made here in the Danish Parliament, that is to say that border controls are neglected and that we are making it into something with a slingshot and two entries in the criminal register. I think that was what was derived from the discussion. We just have to go back to August 2017, when we had not had much time to carry out the effective and then also temporary border controls along our borders, where there actually came a statement, a statement, from the National Police, and I hope that both the Alternative and the Radical Left will accept that the figures coming from the National Police are true believers, because it has nothing to do with slingshots and two charges where it came out that hundreds of people were charged with trafficking, 331 to be completely exact. It also emerged that thousands had been rejected at the borders because they did not have a legal errand in Denmark. Moreover, large amounts of cocaine, hash, skunk and everything else and, incidentally, a large number of small arms had also been withheld, and the radical rapporteur had to say that it was just a slingshot. A gun is not a slingshot, sir. Kristian Hegaard, so I don't think it's fair to use this debate to neglect something that really is a problem. The discussion about Danish retail trade is turned into a discussion about a yes or no to border controls, and I do not think that is fair. I think it's a scandal. For the facts are that the seven concrete initiatives that we will be joining in the Danish People's Party will give our law-abiding retailers better sanctions against people who willfully and carelessly enter their shops and go out with a whole hill of gold rings, with a T-shirt of DKK 3,000. or with jackets for 0.25 million. kr. in broad daylight. They are the ones we have an interest in helping. Then there are some today who have made it a discussion about a Snickers and a Marsbar. I don't think it's worthy. I think this is a strange way of dealing specifically with some challenges that are very important to many in retail stores. It is fair, then, that the same parties will not support our proposal. I actually have full respect for that, that is why we have the rule of the Danish people. However, I do not think it is fair to abandon the debate, as some have done, and I feel the reason to say so, so that you can understand it. I am particularly surprised that some of the blue parties are so opposed to this proposal, and I think it is strange when you read in the very introduction to the report that has come from the Minister of Justice and from the government back in December 2018, where it says: "With this proposal we are taking an important step towards organised shoplifting. And the Minister of Justice goes on to say: "We stand behind the traders. We say stop to the thieves. You come down here in the Chamber today, where there is a party that has bothered to make seven specific offers, and then you point a little finger at them, and then you do nothing more about it, and you do not come up with any concrete proposals yourself. I do not think it is fair to just throw others' proposals off the table without making specific proposals, some specific initiatives. It would have been nice if the other nine parties had come down here today. Some have done what others have not done and made other concrete proposals that we could bring into the debate. I'm not saying that all these seven points are going to come true, I'm just gonna come up with a proposal for that, and that's the way it's meant. If you look at the way the retail trade is experiencing this and if you look back in time, you can see that in the year 2000 almost 30,000 shopliftings had been reported in Denmark • 30,000 reported shop thefts, some large and some small and that the number in 2019 had dropped to 16,359. Then many will probably say it's probably because people have become more law-abiding that it's probably because people aren't stealing anymore. No, I just don't buy that argument. But it is because a great many traders have seen it as bureaucratic, unenforceable, useless, to contact the authorities with the issues they have. For example, I have. Talked to an hardware storekeeper from a provincial town a little further away from the Alpha Road, where two Eastern European shoplifters are detained in an Imerco. Then you call the police who say, "Can't you just get their CPR numbers or something, maybe we'll look at them and get them registered?" But nobody comes out and grabs the collar of the people who go in and steal in the Danish stores. I think it is a pity, and I think it should be more important in this House that we care that there should be more rights for Danish retail shops. They can't assure themselves of this. The distinction between stealing or robbery means that many of them are simply underinsured. It is far too expensive to draw policies, and why is it expensive to draw policies? It is because it will never be solved. There is also an example from Silkeborg with one who had stolen a number of garments, and it ends with catching one in four shoplifters, but the three who were gone had all the goods. So they got a shoplifter, but they never saw their merchandise again. Is that fair? No, it's not. Of course, this requires that we give better rights to shops. One of the things that many people today have used as a lever to reject these seven proposals has been that they are thinking of legal certainty for those who go in and steal in stores. I think this is pure hypocrisy and I do not think it is a fair way of doing it. After all, we expressly suggest that it is in cases where the shopkeeper has indisputable evidence that someone here opens his bag, takes an item from the shelf, puts it in the bag and goes out without paying. That, of course, is the type of case that will be presented. You don't want to present a picture of a 12-year-old boy stealing a Snickers or other things where you can't document it and where, for example, the cameras can be wrong. Some of these specific cases are indisputable, and it is in the indisputable cases in which we say: why should shopkeepers wait for 2, 3, 4 weeks before they are allowed to post them on their Facebook? The witnesses are gone, and they can't remember what they were doing four weeks ago. They're gone, and you don't get any feedback. On the other hand, if we are allowed to do so resolutely and quickly where possible, we will do so. In fact, it was what was done with the person who stole a T-shirt for 3,000 kroner. in Silkeborg there were so two who stole one each, i.e. 6,000 kr. Here the store owner is at risk of going to prison for 11⁄2 years and putting it on Facebook, and just a few seconds later he has almost both names and addresses of both thieves. Then you call one team of parents and invite Mom and Dad and the 14-year-old boy for coffee down at the store, and I actually think, if I'm to be completely honest, that the right way to prevent young people's misfortune and the fact that they commit crime is that they get an experience of that hoof, hoof, it didn't work out. That is not the consequence if we make it impossible for there to be a higher level of investigation, and that is what this is all about, so that we solve the type of thefts that are taking place in Denmark. There is the clear position of the Danish People's Party that if we give better tools to the shops, more rights to put their evidence on Facebook and elsewhere, then the clearing rate will increase in very, very many cases. But that is not what is happening in the Assembly as a whole, and I fully agree that there are different views on it, and I must then respect that, and I will of course say in the end that this is probably not the last time we will be debating this proposal in some context here in the Folketing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220134824	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220134826	Thank you. I was somewhat in doubt, perhaps particularly in relation to the first half of the speech, whether it was an motivational speech for the motion for a resolution made by the rapporteur or whether it was a speech primarily targeted by the undersigned's remarks on the motion for a resolution on the comments on the so-called effective border controls, which, after all, barely cover half of the southern border crossings. But what I really would like to ask is the final part of the series of proposals that the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party have put forward on this residence ban. And there I just want to hear how the rapporteur intended it to be enforced on this issue, for example. should be like what has just been decided about sex offenders, that is, that the police can investigate whether you are on the way to breaking the law. What was the rapporteur's intention in this regard?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220134920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220134921	At any rate, I intend to contribute to the creation of legislation which gives more rights to shops, which improves the scope for proper case investigation and provides a greater degree of clarification of the robberies and thefts that are being committed. And that is clearly contrary to what we are seeing in many places today. It is true, then, that I have mentioned the Radical Left rapporteur, but I do have to do so, it cannot go unnoticed, be uncommented here in the Danish Parliament when you come up with some real nonsense and nonsense that only one with a slingshot has been caught when there are several thousand who have been rejected at the borders. It's like it's just not gonna mean anything to any politician. There were 331 charges for trafficking in human beings only until August 2017 and the figures continue like this. Then it is true that there has been a fall because we have experienced less pressure on the Danish borders, and of course we should be happy about that. But that does not change the fact that the pressure on the borders has just moved to North Africa and into the European continent, and that debate will then come at another time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220135032	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220135033	What I would like to ask is how to enforce this residence ban. And there I hear the rapporteur say that it must be something that is in the interests of the retail trade, and then I would like to know whether the rapporteur is of the opinion that it would be in the interests of the retail trade to organise enforcement in the same way as that, for example. Just adopted for sex offenders whether it is such that the police can decide to investigate whether you are in the process of violating this residence ban. Could this be a direction in which enforcement would take place?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220135105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220135106	This is, of course, one of the proposals contained in it, and it is clear that if there is a majority in favour of it, we will, of course, be involved in incorporating a solution which takes account of some of the problems that exist here. We fully understand that you cannot stand and watch everything on every corner of the street, so of course there will be some grounds for maintaining this part with a possible stay zone where you have a ban on staying. And that will be part of the coinage that will come if we can get a majority for it. It is not as such outlined in this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220135136	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220135137	Thank you. Thanks to DF for making this suggestion. I understand that the DF is frustrated. I believe that if the series that was running on television and the debate on the media had taken place last week, the mood in this Chamber would have been quite different. Then we would not have been able to get there for just politicians who would do one thing and would do the other. That is also why the rapporteur mentions this quote from the former Minister of Justice. Now it has been a little forgotten, the media focus is on something else, and then shopkeepers are sitting with, can you say, the shit in this Chamber? Third Vice-President No. ) Then I won't do it. But you're faced with the dilemma. And what do we do? That is why we in the New Citizens' Party are saying that this matter is simply too important for you to simply put the proposal down because there are a few points of these seven that you cannot support. I would therefore like to ask DF: would it be possible, in order to meet shopkeepers, to consider adapting and amending the motion for a resolution so that the points which it would appear may be supported by more people will remain and the others will be deleted?
ParlaMint-DK_20200220135255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220135256	After all, these are not the same things people have expressed distrust of. These are different points. Some have expressed it more specifically than others, and some have made it several points. In fact, I think I should like to congratulate the Minister on having a little speaking time for that too, because, after all, the specific four points were mentioned, in which at least no common ground could be found. So it is not my job to botanise in my own proposal, if that is what is being asked. I stand by the politics of the Danish People's Party. If someone wants only copy-paste 40%, they're welcome to it. I just think they should copy-paste a hundred percent instead. For that is simply common sense, and that must be what must be the hallmark of this. In view of the progress that has been made, it is at least the case that it is now being discussed in committee, and then my clear position is that we should put it to the vote with all seven elements in the motion for a resolution, and then people will have to vote yes or no. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220135354	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220135357	Oh, I'm a little sorry. I am a little sorry that we find ourselves in a situation where, as the rapporteur himself says, the government points out four out of seven elements with which we cannot agree, and where we are actually relatively many people now I do not have that sort of control, but it looks like it can back up a good part of the proposal and also recognise that this is a really important agenda. Of course, it is not DF's job to design one proposal after another, so that we can sit here and move commas around. I can then hope, following on from that, that the Minister will listen and take this further and also take the debate further, in view of the fact that there is actually recognition of the problem and also recognition of parts of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220135450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220135450-2	It has not been long now, my fellow Member. Morten Messerschmidt was blamed down here by among others. Liberal Alliance that we wasted Parliament's time and that there was a risk that he could not go on a summer holiday on 1 June. So I'm gonna be sorry if I'm gonna postpone Parliament's vacation. Maybe I just thought it was more important to take care of the Folketing than to take care of a sun bench on a beach. But New Citizens are welcome to table resolutions, as well as the Danish People's Party has done a lot. We have put forward a great many. Other parties have not put forward any, some have hardly made any. It is, of course, such a balancing act, after what is being done by various working points. We want to be involved in the debate, but our proposal is common sense, and that is why we do not want to botany it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220135537	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. No one else has asked for the floor, and so the debate is closed for today. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. If no one objects to this, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200220135555	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 25 February at 2.30 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the website.
