ParlaMint-DK_20201030100003	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews, and because of the many submissions I shall not read out the titles: Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply (Dan Jørgensen): Bill no. L 67 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Electricity). Tax Minister (Morten Bødskov): Bill no. L 68 (Proposal for a law on the taxation of polyvinyl chloride and phthalates (pvc tax law)) and Bill No. L 69 (Proposal for a Law amending the Equalisation Act, the Pension Taxation Act, the Tax Reporting Act and various other laws. Church Minister (Joy Mogensen): Bill No. L 70 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the National Church's Economy. Employment Minister (Peter Hummelgaard): Bill no. L 71 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the posting of employees, etc.) Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Mattia Tesfaye): Bill No. L 72 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law of the Faroe Islands on the right of aliens to reside for certain purposes of employment. Bill No. L 73 (Proposal for a law on citizenship). Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 51 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the strengthening of freedom of expression by repealing Article 266 (b) of the Penal Code). Peter Skaarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 52 (Proposal for a resolution on the abolition of penalty rebates), motion for a resolution No. B 53 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to tighten up the penalties for the use of fireworks potentially endangering others), motion for a resolution No. Β 55 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the possibility of a life sentence not being able to date or enter into personal relations with people outside prison), motion for a resolution No. Β 57 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the ordering and removal of passports by means of a personal appearance and limitation of the number of passports issued due to a loss) and motion for a resolution No. Β 57 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the ordering and removal of passports by means of a personal appearance and limitation of the number of passports issued due to a loss) B 66 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on increasing the penalty for vandalizing cultural heritage monuments, statues, monuments and the like). Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 54 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a new law on digital child protection which protects children's access to the Internet). Jan E. Jørgensen (V) and Preben Bang Henriksen (V): Motion for a resolution No. B 56 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution extending the scope of reimbursement). Rasmus Jarlov (KF) and Søren Pape Poulsen (KF): Motion for a resolution No. Β 58 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the neutralization of additional compensation in the context of the compensatory reform) and motion for a resolution No. B 59 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the exemption of municipalities from tax sanctions in connection with the compensatory reform). Mort Messerschmidt (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 60 (Proposal for a resolution on the identification of the persecution of Christians in the countries with which Denmark cooperates). Astrid Carøe (SF) and Rasmus Nordqvist (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 61 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution prohibiting the provision and carrying out of conversion therapy for people with disabilities). Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 62 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of an authorization system for social and health workers). Pernille Skipper (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 63 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on indirect objective responsibility for employers in harassment cases). Peter Seier Christensen (NB) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 64 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the organisation of public energy planning based on the use of nuclear energy). Samira Nawa (RV) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 65 (Proposal for a decision to include full-time studies in the calculation of the employment requirement for permanent residence). Pernille Vermund (NB) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 67 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of the right to seek spontaneous asylum in Denmark) and motion for a resolution No. B 68 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution prohibiting the use of halal-certified meat in public institutions). Sikandar Siddique (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. B 69 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a Climate Act 2.0 which ensures ambitious reductions in Denmark's real total greenhouse gas emissions). Mette Thiesen (NB) and others: Motion for a resolution No. B 70 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a compensation scheme for the failure of municipalities to deal with cases and delays in social matters). Alex Vanopslagh (LA) and Peter Seier Christensen (NB) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 71 (Proposal for a Parliament decision to pay the remaining 2 weeks of frozen holiday allowance in order to stimulate the Danish economy as a result of the covid-19). Sjúrður Skaale (JF) and Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA): Request no. F 11 (What can the government say about time limits for how long citizens can expect to be charged with wrongdoing or criminal activities before there is a final outcome, and what does the government intend to do to limit the time a citizen can face and await a process and judgment according to the principles of the rule of law?). Søren Søndergaard (EL), Jep Bruus (S), Peter Skaarup (DF), Jens Rohde (RV), Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF), Pernille Vermund (NB) and Torsten Gejl (ALT): Request no. F 12 (What can the government state about the status of the investigation in connection with the "Star Star" assassination fire, where 159 people were killed, and, as a follow-up, what does the government intend to do to bring an investigation closer?). Marcus Knuth (KF), Morten Dahlin (V), Marie Krarup (DF), Mette Thiesen (NB) and Henrik Dahl (LA): Request no. F 13 (What can the Minister say about the government's priorities in relation to the negotiations on a new agreement on rules for the acquisition and withdrawal of Danish citizenship, and does the Minister plan to convene parties of the Folketing for negotiations on this agreement before the end of this calendar year?). Mort Messerschmidt (DF) and Peter Skaarup (DF): Hasteforskning nr. F 14 (Will the government explain the situation between the EU and Turkey in the wake of the assassination of a teacher in France who used the Mohammed drawings in his teaching, including whether the government of the EU will propose that all special agreements between the EU and Turkey be abolished?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. above). The Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities (Mogens Jensen) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with paragraph 19 of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on the perspective and action plan 2020. R 5). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday, 3 November 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030100235	The debate is open. Sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030100240	Thank you for that, President. For the Social Democratic Party, the top priority is to restore citizens' confidence in the tax administration, where employees work hard every day and do well, and where it is a political responsibility and a political task, among other things. combating tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. We must have confidence in Denmark that we all contribute to the community and pay the right tax. No one should be able to cheat from this. The bill here ensures that the tax administration's ability to control trade within multinational companies is not weakened. Tax authorities must be able to act and operate effectively, and tax legislation must be robust and work to achieve political ambitions and objectives. The draft law thus contains the following main elements: The bill is intended to ensure that Danish corporate tax legislation in a number of areas complies with international obligations, which include: The OECD rules and the case-law of the European Court of Justice. Firstly, the draft law aims to implement OECD recommendations on permanent establishments, so that the Danish rules are consistent with international standards in this area. In this way, we ensure a level playing field wherever the natural or legal person is resident for tax purposes. Secondly, the draft law aims to bring the rules of the Corporate Tax Act into line with EU law. Specifically, a number of provisions are introduced to allow Danish companies to make deductions for final losses in foreign subsidiaries and permanent establishments and losses relating to real estate. The changes here are due to an EU judgment. Third, transfer pricing increases clarify the margin of discretion and aim to ensure that tax authorities have access to estimate when the documentation is not available and must be submitted within 60 days of the deadline for the submission of the information document. Social democracy can, of course, vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030100459	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and we can therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. Kim Valentin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030100513	Thank you, Mr President. We in the Left believe that we must, of course, honour international commitments. This bill is intended to ensure that Danish company law in a number of areas meets the international obligations, which include: The OECD rules and the case-law of the European Court of Justice. Firstly, the proposal aims to implement the OECD recommendations on permanent establishments so that the internal Danish rules are brought into line with the latest international standards in this area. There are, in fact, a number of Danish companies that benefit from it. Secondly, companies are allowed to deduct final losses in foreign subsidiaries, permanent establishments and real estate. The purpose of these provisions is to bring corporate tax law into line with Union law. In the present case, the Commission considers that the contested tax rulings do not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. It's a pretty technical area. The transfer pricing documentation shall be submitted within 60 days of the deadline for the submission of the information document. It's good to get it straight. In addition, the draft law contains a number of minor adjustments that I shall not go into in detail. The Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030100656	Thank you, sir. Kim Valentin. There are no brief comments, and we can therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030100703	After all, it is not one of the legislative proposals that creates the most debate, which perhaps also reflects the fact that it is quite technical and a bit complicated and difficult to have a high-level debate on the basis of. It is a partial re-submission of L 48 from the last session, but without CFC taxation, which was at least then probably the most technical part of it and also the most controversial issue. There I think there will be less now, but with that said, there may still be something in this too, because there are eight different elements which, as I said, are quite technical. That's also why there's a high probability that you can miss something. The first point I would like to mention briefly is the rules relating to permanent establishments, on which it is basically good that we have some provisions. I also think it is a good thing that we are adjusting up to OECD recommendations here. I think that is much better than we in Denmark do tax policy, rather than following the trend, which tends to lean towards EU legislation. The OECD is a much better forum, and here we have adjusted the rules on permanent establishments so that where you produce the goods and typically have your activity, you also have to be taxed. That's quite reasonable. But there's also an outstanding one in it that you don't solve with this, and it's these big tech giants who don't have a permanent establishment in Denmark, but who suck out money, whether it's ad crowns, or whether you deliver Netflix or video or other things, and who don't pay taxes in Denmark. The outstanding remains to be seen, but the OECD is looking at this. But I would like to say that it is in this way where the big hump is in relation to the permanent establishment. Well, that's how to catch these big companies, among other things. tech giants, but this is another time we have to solve it. But we think it's a good change that lies in this bill. Then there is another part about allowing Danish companies to make deductions in final losses in foreign subsidiaries, and this may sound good as a starting point. It is on the basis of an EU judgment. It is again a rather technical area which I cannot say I am deep down in the scope of, so I really wonder if we could perhaps have a technical review of it in committee before we take a final view on it. The last point I would like to mention is about transfer pricing, and there I think it is a little the same. I think it makes good sense to set a 60-day deadline for submitting the documentation so that the income can be fixed fairly and, if you do not hand it over, it can be estimated. That sounds good, but I can see in the hearings that there are a number of comments on it, and I have to say that, as a layman, although I have been a tax rapporteur for many years, I find it difficult to see whether it is exactly where it makes sense, both for the tax authorities, who must of course be able to move forward and set the estimate if you cannot, you can say, play along and deliver on time, but also for the business community, with which, on the other hand, there must also be a balance in relation to. I have to say, frankly, that I am a little short, and I cannot say that I have hit exactly what needs to be done there, when there have also been a lot of consultation answers which actually point out that there are some things that can be adjusted. So I would actually like to ask whether we could have a technical review of the committee's work and then we will take a position on that. But I would certainly say that overall we are positive about the legislative proposal, and if we get some good answers in the committee's work, then I expect we will vote in favour. However, I would like to reserve the right that we may be able to have a technical review so that we are sure that it is as it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030101010	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments here either, which is why we can move on to Mrs Kathrine Ollyday from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030101021	Thank you for that, President. As Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær has just mentioned this is, of course, a proposal of quite a technical nature, which we in the Radical Left think makes very good sense overall and, in relation to all its points, to discuss today and adopt later. The point I would like to touch upon is probably also about the OECD recommendations on permanent establishments, so that the Danish rules are brought into line with the latest international standards. Together with the government and the other support parties, we would really like to help combat aggressive tax planning with common sense as a guiding principle, and we think that is the case here. The definition of permanent establishment of the proposed law follows the definition set out in the OECD Agreement of 2017. The proposed provisions are also in line with the wording of the provision of a permanent establishment set out in the multilateral instrument to which Denmark has also acceded. The new internal Danish rule will therefore have real effect only when the countries with which Denmark has concluded a double taxation agreement have acceded to a similar provision on permanent establishment through the multilateral instrument or through an individual negotiation of the agreement. And for those countries with which Denmark does not have a double taxation agreement, such as France or Spain, the new definition in Danish law will take effect from the entry into force, i.e. from 1 January 2020. And, of course, these are also some of the elements that need to be taken into account, of course, in relation to the countries with which we are working. What I really want to ask you today is to ask the Minister and the good professionals over in the Ministry whether it has been taken into account that this proposal will make it easier for migrant workers working and earning money in more than two countries. I find that difficult to understand as I read it, but I would really like to have a tax proposal as to whether that is the case. All in all, however, it is super excellent and we naturally support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030101233	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030101238	I would like to ask the rapporteur a question about the part that is not included in this bill, namely the CFC part. For I know at least that there are three parties in this Parliament who are actually in favour of that part and who were prepared to vote it through without substantive testing as quickly as possible. It is the Social Democratic Party, it is the Socialist People's Party, and it is the Enhedslisten. And if the Radical Left were also involved, there was already a majority, but it is simply unclear to me what the Radical Left's position on the CFC part really is, i.e. whether one still supports the CFC rule, which has been in the draft legislation we have discussed here in the Folketing, i.e. a CFC rule without any substantive test.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030101324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030101326	The reason why we are about to embark on the third round on CFCs is, of course, that the government has not been able to obtain a majority, as Mr. Rune Lund also mentions. And that is because the Radical Left could not vote in favour of the bill as it was in round two when we discussed it. As I understand it, the same legislative proposal will be put forward as it was then, and that is why we will also be tabling an amendment to that proposal when we are going to take that round again. And in that amendment we are trying to strike a balance between over-implementation on the one hand, in other words over-implementation in relation to the competitiveness of Danish companies in the global market, and on the other hand the gap that we do not want to create in any way whatsoever in Danish tax legislation. So it's about finding the balance between when we create a hole, so we lose a lot of taxation on intangibles and when we like to hold hands under large Danish companies. I think we are going to hit that with the amendment on which we are sitting and have some thoughts, and we can discuss that when we get there, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030101438	I'd like to ask you, sir. Rune Lund to explain to me and to those who see with what CFC is, because it came right in from the side, and it might be nice enough just to explain, and then Mr. Rune Lund gets it. Rune Lund 5 seconds extra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030101449	It is simply that the European Union has come up with some fantastic rules that allow us to close a gigantic tax gap which allows companies like Novo Nordisk today to avoid paying 0 DKK. in something called CFC tax, which is about transferring an intangible asset, for example. a patent, from Denmark abroad. And there we have the view in the Enhedslisten that we are not very happy with the European Union, but after all we love the European Union more than we love big business, which is trying to make tax evasion. However, I understand from what the Radical Left is saying today that the tax avoidance directive will only be voted through with the part that we are not discussing today if there is a substantive test. And that would undermine the very purpose of closing the gap, which is actually the idea of introducing the new rules on CFCs taxation. So that's how it's supposed to be understood? Will the Radical Left only vote through the CFC part if there is a substantive test? Is that how it should be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030101546	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030101548	A test of substance is not necessarily big business evil. You can hear that Mr. Rune Lund is in great shape today. As far as we're concerned, this substantive test is actually just about protecting Danish companies, and we're going to propose an alternative substance test. And let's just wait and see if you don't, sir. Rune Lund may still see a point in what we are going to propose, because there will actually be a lot of speculation, that is, possible speculation. We will also work on evaluation, i.e. follow the bill closely and so on, because we also have no interest in creating a hole in the treasury. I mean, we're feeling exactly the same way as sir. Rune Lund, except that we may love the EU a little more.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030101625	There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Rune Lund to do it so that the viewers and I could keep up with the debate. Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030101638	Thank you. Now, of course, we are dealing with a legislative proposal that we have actually debated before, which is why I will also repeat some of my points from last year. We must conform to international guidelines in order to avoid tax evasion. We in the SF welcome that. I can also see that the amendment to the CFCs rule has been separated from the actual legislative proposal, since it was the one that caused the most debate last time. Now it will cause a little debate again. It is fine, we will also gladly take the debate at that time when we have to work on it. As the proposal stands, the SF will vote in favour. In general, of course, we are concerned to ensure that the introduction of new rules does not risk relaxing the current Danish tax controls. Actually, that's it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030101718	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030101735	In the Enhedslisten, we welcome the work being done in the OECD and the achievements that are being made in the fight against international tax evasion. There's a lot going on in these years. For more than 20 years we have been fighting against the aggressive tax speculation of multinationals, and we will continue to do so. The draft law contains good elements, but also one element that we are critical of, why we may have to wait for a technical review in the committee to ask for a split of the bill. We must see this in the context of the work of the committee. The first element concerns adjustments to the definition of permanent establishment. The bill implements changes that close to abuse through what is called the agent rule, where it can be artificially constructed without the establishment of a permanent establishment and thus tax liability. In addition, further clarification has been given as to when only activities of a preparatory and helping nature are involved, so that this does not allow for camouflage of permanent establishment and thus artificially avoid tax liability. The comments to the draft law state that, in the original L 48, there was also an additional condition regarding the agent rule, namely that the activities were carried out from a fixed establishment in this country, but this has been modified by this bill, as the condition does not follow from the OECD recommendations. We in the Enhedslisten are going to ask questions about the consequences of this. Immediately we assess it to be a tightening. However, in principle one can, among other things. act on behalf of others as an agent in Denmark by having activities exclusively in Denmark, but e.g. Maybe do it from an office in the country. What do I know about Flensburg or Malmö? We will ask questions about that. In addition, we can see that the so-called distance selling rule is removed, and it can also be misused to circumvent permanent establishments. It is also a change that we consider to be sensible and is a tightening up. Then I would like to make one comment on capital funds. It is a question of saying: "In Danish law there is no legal definition of the concept of professional activity. However, it is in Article 2 (2) of the Corporate Tax Act. 7 and Article 2 (2) of the Law on withholding tax. 11, provided that activities in the form of investments in shares and in the form of the acquisition of claims, debts and financial contracts covered by the Act on exchange gains shall be considered to be the pursuit of a profession only where there is a presence and then comes the word "nutritional" business. It was introduced in a bill that we dealt with before the elections, namely L 237, and that means de facto that capital funds are excluded from Danish taxation through the permanent establishment. It is just to mention that we in the Enhedslisten believe that there is a political problem here, and that, in terms of Danish legislation, we are inflicting a huge financial loss on ourselves. This is not because the draft law changes the current practice. I just want to point out that we actually have a problem that we should discuss in more detail. The second main element of the draft law here is transfer pricing. There are a large number of provisions, clarifications, tightenings and adjustments, all of which are sensible and good. The third element concerns the deduction rules for final losses. It should not be a secret that here we think it seems that the European Union is interfering heavily in Danish tax law in an unfortunate way. In fact, it also does violence on quite fundamental principles of tax law, which is that if you are not taxed at the same time, you cannot obtain deductions. The current Danish rules mean that Danish corporation tax can be deducted for losses in foreign companies, but only if international co-taxation has been chosen for Denmark. That's very reasonable. If you want Danish tax deductions, you also have to pay the tax in Denmark. Similarly, you can opt out of co-taxation and pay your tax in another country, which may even have a lower tax rate, but then, of course, you cannot activate a deficit in this foreign company in the Danish tax and get deductions. There must be symmetry in things. There are, however, these particular cases of final deficit. If a Danish company that has not chosen co-taxation for Denmark has a foreign subsidiary that has a final loss, so that the company is wound up, the company is closed and the company is left with a loss, then for good reasons this cannot be activated in the now closed company. So we are left with a deficit which we cannot taxly activate unless we can do so in a company in another country. Here the Danish rules, which require that international co-taxation has been actively chosen, have stood in the way. But that is no longer the case. With the so-called Bevoladom, the European Court of Justice considers that the Danish rules are contrary to the right to freedom of establishment. The foreign company must therefore have the right to come to Denmark with the final deficit which cannot be activated in, for example, Denmark. Spain or Germany, and then reduce the tax in Denmark even if the company has not paid a bent penny.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030102256	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030102302	During his brief remarks, Mr. Rune Lund Novo Nordisk for tax evasion. I'd like to know what evidence he has of this, because it's a pretty gross accusation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030102313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030102315	No, I didn't. What I am saying is that Novo Nordisk is today applying the CFC rules in such a way that they can avoid paying taxes. They themselves have presented this to us in a hearing in the Landstingshall, where they have made it clear that they are paying 0 kr today. in CFC tax. The reason why you can do that is that today there are rules, a tax gap, which means that when you transfer your patent from Denmark to another country, you can avoid paying taxes. What lies in tightening up the original CFCs proposal is that the part that is not included here today is that the EU tax avoidance directive allows us to close that gap. That was part of the bill that Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, as the tax minister, has put forward, and it has been included in the bill put forward by the tax minister, and that is the tightening that we want to see applied, so that we cannot sneak around, but pay the tax that we ought to pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030102426	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030102433	I am fairly sure that this was what was said earlier in the brief remarks, i.e. that Novo Nordisk is doing tax evasion. I'd just like to know if Mr. Rune Lund takes the view that this large Danish company, which I know is the largest taxpayer of corporation tax in Denmark, transfers patents to subsidiaries for tax reasons, in other words to avoid paying tax in Denmark. Is that it, sir? Rune Lund says?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030102501	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030102504	I do not know the specific conditions in Novo Nordisk, but basically it makes sense and we can see that from how patents end up in all kinds of and impossible tax havens around the world. It should be strange if so many patents had been developed on palm islands around the world. And the reason why you do that is that you can obtain a tax advantage from it. If there was no tax advantage to it, the patent might as well remain in Denmark. And Novo Nordisk is an international group, so it would surprise me a great deal if a group like Novo Nordisk did not also take advantage of the unfortunately too many gaps in international tax law today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030102557	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. There are no more brief comments. And then it's sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030102616	It's a controversial bill. However, I would like to ask the Minister of Taxation to explain the CFCs tax which, as I see it, has been taken out of the draft law in relation to how it is playing with the rules on the permanent establishment, and also, incidentally, what the Minister of Taxation intends to do with the objections that have been raised. The majority of the consultation answers are actually about CFC taxation, and if it is not included in the legislative proposal, I think it is relevant to hear about it. Perhaps there should have been consultation again in order to hear the comments on the updated version of the bill. I am, in fact, a little in doubt as to whether we have taken full account of the objections raised by a number of large Danish companies. I very much do not want to vote through anything which means that there is an over-implementation of this EU directive, which will put Danish companies at a competitive disadvantage compared to groups that have their home in other countries of Europe. In other words, we do not want our large Danish companies, which have subsidiaries, to be taxed more heavily than, for example. a Swedish or a German company which has subsidiaries abroad. And I hope the government doesn't want that either. At any rate, I assume that the parties responsible in this Parliament do not want to do so, including the government. For it is quite central to the Danish economy that it is not the case that if a Danish company operates a subsidiary abroad, it is taxed more than if it is a Swedish or a German group that buys the same company. So I would really like to make a statement on that. And then I am very surprised that some people in this Chamber are accusing large Danish companies of tax evasion. I do not think this is appropriate to the Danish companies. In the large Danish companies, you behave and do everything you can to be good citizens and pay the taxes you have to pay and then you accuse them of tax evasion. I simply do not think this is a reasonable accusation to make without any evidence. And when Enhedslistens Rune Lund says he doesn't know the specific conditions in Novo Nordisk, maybe he should stay too good to accuse them of making tax evasion before he does. As a starting point, we can support the draft law, but as I said, I would like to have a detailed account of how the CFC part is included in this proposal and whether the objections raised by a number of large Danish companies have been taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030102839	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030102841	Now we have to read in the minutes how exactly I formulated myself in my brief comment to Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday. But the point here is that there is a gigantic gap in the rules on CFC taxation and that international groups in Denmark are using that gap not to pay the tax they should. Then the EU comes up with some rules in which they give us the opportunity to close that gap, because now we also have to pay taxes on what is called another income from the intangible asset that is being transferred from Denmark to another country. And that is all I am saying: that is what is being done to prevent tax evasion; it is called the tax avoidance directive. That is what we have to implement in Danish legislation, so there is tax evasion, and the purpose of the directive in the various versions that have been of it is precisely to close the gaps so that there can be no tax evasion. And that is why we need to tighten the rules, because otherwise tax evasion is unfortunately taking place.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030102944	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030102946	After all, we do not need to look at the record, because Mr. Rune Lund did indeed accuse that there are some companies which, in order to avoid paying tax in Denmark, place patents in foreign subsidiaries. That's just not my opinion. I mean, I think you should stop making such an accusation without having any evidence to support it. I think that when patents are placed in different places, it has to do with the fact that that is where they are used most, and I do not think it has anything to do with trying to avoid paying taxes. But I would like to hear the evidence, because I think it is quite a gross accusation. I don't think any of the big Danish companies can recognize that accusation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030103023	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030103026	I can only note that patents are being moved abroad, even from a country like Denmark, although we have better protection rules than many other countries. I note that there are patents on a large number of palm islands, where it must be assumed that this is probably not where the patents have been developed. I note that the tax situation in the palm islands is much more favourable to companies and much more lenient than they would be in the country where patents were originally developed. Well, then you can add the equation, sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030103101	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030103103	So I cannot say definitively that there are no examples of this, because I do not know all the examples. But I think it must be up to Mr. Rune Lund to provide evidence of the claim that there should be some of the large Danish companies that place patents on palm islands in order to avoid paying the tax in Denmark as they should. I would very much like to hear a justification for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030103124	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030103132	Thank you. I'm gonna try to deal with the bill. I think there are some good elements in this. There are also some good questions raised and some things we need to look at whether there is overimplementation and something else. We'd always like to take a look at that. I would also like to say to the Enhedslisten that if you want the bill to be shared, we are in principle always in favour of a party being allowed to do so, so we would like to support that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030103200	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030103204	Now, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen and New Citizens did not like the European Union very much. But new citizens also have an economic policy that loves large companies. Here we have an EU judgment where you come and say that companies abroad that have never paid 1 DKK. in tax to Denmark, should be allowed to deduct their losses when the subsidiary closes and turns off abroad while the parent company is in Denmark. After all, it must lead to an economic loss in Denmark that the European Union has imposed on us. What do you think, sir? Lars Boje Mathisen about it? Is it reasonable for the EU to interfere in Danish affairs, Danish taxation, in the way that should actually be a national matter? What do you think, sir? Lars Boje Mathiesen on that problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030103251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030103252	No, and that is also why I share the view of the Conservative rapporteur that we should have looked at this and see if there is any over-implementation that is not necessary for it to be done. Basically, we love businesses, but we are because they create jobs, that is, people can go to work and they can make money, and then they pay taxes so that we can run this circus here. So that's basically why we love businesses. When we do not like the European Union, it is a matter of sometimes over-implementing, in relation to what is justified, and that is why I ask that we should be able to look into it in greater detail, i.e. whether this is the case here. That is also why we have not taken a final position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030103325	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and then it is the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030103336	Thank you for that, President, and thank you very much for the debate. I was particularly pleased with the last speech, which started by pointing out that we should also try to discuss what the legislative proposal is actually about. It's always good. But I would like to start by thanking you for what I can clearly see overall is a very positive reception of this bill. After all, this is a re-submission of L 48 from the last parliamentary assembly, and just as a result of the debate we have had here, the government thought that it might be very good that we could get parts of the draft law through, and that is why we have also amended the draft law, so that the amendment of the CFC rules referred to here will be included separately in a subsequent legislative proposal. There is no doubt that the fight against tax avoidance and also aggressive tax planning are a very important priority for the government. We need to have confidence that everyone will respond and all contribute to the community of which we are a part by, of course, paying the right tax. Therefore, it is very important and crucial for the government that everyone contributes to the community and no one can fool around. There are two things that are important to ensure that exercise, and the work is that, firstly, we must have a modern and effective tax administration which, of course, has the insight, but also the resources to carry out effective tax controls. Secondly, we must have tax legislation that is designed in a way that makes the rules robust, of course, but also has to work in reality and as intended. The rules must be able to withstand attempts at tax avoidance, and that is why we may need what we call protection rules in the committee, where it is generally intended that companies will of course pay the tax they have to pay. Restoration of the tax administration is also part of the financial bill which the government presented some time ago and which is about to be dealt with. After all, we have proposed that there should be a significant increase in tax administration, not least in order to strengthen tax control. We are planning to increase tax control staff by 1,000 men until 2024. As I have said, aggressive tax planning is not a phenomenon that stops at borders; on the contrary, it could be said that it is a question of operators seeking to exploit the differences in the tax rules of the countries in order, of course, to pay as little tax as possible. Therefore, and for this reason, binding international cooperation on this issue is important. The OECD is a crucial and important global player in tackling aggressive tax planning and also in ensuring a fairer distribution of taxation rights in an increasingly digitalised world. Not only does the OECD play a crucial role, so does the European Union, and the legislative proposal we are discussing here today is entirely in line with the government's priorities. This ensures that the tax administration is able to ensure that the control of trade for and with multinational groups is not weakened, and this ensures that the Danish rules are, if you like, up-to-date in relation to the results of the OECD's work on this area. Finally, the draft law ensures that we comply with EU law, we must, of course, while ensuring that the Danish rules remain robust. With these words, I would like to thank you for the debate. I will try to appeal a little to keep the two things separate. We are very happy to contribute with technical review, for example of the two elements mentioned by the Danish People's Party, final profits, deductions for it, and whether this rule of establishment is properly targeted, and we can also argue, following on from what the Conservatives asked, about what the consequences are of the separation that lies here. Then, at a later stage, we will be discussing the issue of CFCs taxation. The previous government has tried to do so, and the bill for which I modestly thought there was a majority in favour when I tabled it was a true copy of what the previous government had put forward. There was no agreement on that, but now we have made this separation, and I hope we can get this through, and I still believe that there may be a majority in the Folketing for us to follow EU law, because that is a very good idea, and then we will try to look at the other afterwards. We are happy to answer questions in the parliamentary committee about this area which is complicated.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030103839	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030103843	Thank you. I would like to hear from the Minister for Taxation whether he can explain whether all the consultation answers that are available relate only to previous legislative proposals, and if so, whether we should not have a new round of consultations, so that we can be sure that the objections raised by a number of Danish companies have been taken into account. Because I am a little nervous that there are so many of those who point to the problem of CFC taxation in the consultation answers to this bill. It has been taken out, but what I am left with is whether I can see through whether all the elements have been taken out. Therefore, I would be most comfortable with it if I could hear from those companies again how they look at the bill as it stands in its present form. So could there be an opportunity to obtain it from the consultation parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030103930	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030103931	Of course, the companies concerned are free to send out consultation answers and comments to committee if they so wish. I think it is quite normal procedure for a legislative proposal to be tabled. Although it is fragmented as it is here, there are no problems, I think, in dealing with it as it is dealt with here. The separate issue of the CFC rules may also be more relevant to the technical review of the parliamentary committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030103957	Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030104000	Will the Minister of Taxation guarantee that there are no elements in this bill that affect CFC taxation, or will he perhaps send an answer to it afterwards? I know this may be difficult on a stand-by basis, but can we get an answer as to what impact this bill might have on CFC taxation? There are, of course, some elements about how to define the establishment, etc., which I think might affect CFCs taxation. Can we have a statement on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030104030	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030104032	The committee certainly can. We'll just take that in the technical review. So I think we should go there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030104039	Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030104040	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for taking the part that concerns CFC taxation out of this bill. After all, there was a reason why we did not choose to implement it when we had the power of government, namely the problems with that part. So thank the Minister for taking it out of the bill. But the Minister will also have to put it forward at a later stage, and so I will ask the Minister if, when the Minister makes the proposal, there will be a substantive test.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030104104	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030104106	The government is not in favour of a substantive test. And we shall return to what legislative proposals are being put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030104114	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030104116	Now the Minister himself mentioned this part of his speech, and that is why I think it is quite natural to ask what the government has in mind in this area, because the Minister promised that this is one of the things that will be looked at in the future. That is why it is also very natural that we should ask about it. For me, it is important that there is a proper legislative process and that a substantive test, if one comes with one, is also consulted because it is so important and defining for how Danish companies can run their business.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030104141	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030104143	I can say that the government is not in favour of a substantive test. We think that the draft law put forward by the previous government was fine. But I understand that you're not really behind that anymore. We believe that this bill helps to close gaps which can be used for tax avoidance and tax evasion. Yeah, we'll have to discuss it when we get there. This part of the bill is separated here, as I said, but it has been some time now. We have to get on with it, which is why we will look at it later this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030104219	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030104222	Of course, the CFCs tax is of immense interest in the business world, and that is understandable. It is actually just to go further in the direction of the previous questioner. There are some rumors in the business world that the government is planning to table the bill unchanged, but already has plans to table an amendment for the second reading. Should we not now send it to a hearing? Otherwise, we, as Parliament, are failing to get the debate at first reading on a potential amendment, plus that there is no consultation answer on whether or not we are actually hitting within the dial. So I think that is a little of the concern: that you can see in the business world that there may be some kind of substance test, perhaps a mild degree of it, but it will come all the way past the consultation parties; it will not be part of the debate in the Folketing. So I think that's what at least my own party is afraid is going to happen. So it is an appeal to the government that, after all, it is put into a legislative proposal if it is in the direction you are going, so that you can have both a hearing answer and a debate on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030104318	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030104320	I think it's running out a little bit. In other words, we are discussing a legislative proposal which has nothing to do with what is being asked, because it is separate, and now I have to deal with some rumors running in business about what has nothing to do with the legislative proposal we are discussing here today. The government has one interest, and of course it's getting this through. We think this is best for Danish economy. This applies to this part and also to the other part, and then there are quite clear international obligations to get the other through as well. There's a debate. We must try to resolve that. I think it is best both for Danish economy and for Denmark's international reputation that we get it through, and I can guarantee the Danish People's Party that there will of course be a thorough discussion of it. That goes without saying; it is an important subject. Everyone here has been committed to it. There has been a hearing in the Folketing, etc. So it would be quite strange if you chose a process that did not allow people to speak again, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030104419	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030104431	The debate is open. Sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030104448	Thank you. The bill here is the implementation of the agreement reached by the Social Democratic Party with the former government and the Radical Left in 2018, an agreement that makes it more attractive to set up business foundations by the generational change of companies. Specifically, the draft law provides for the transfer of shares in the company operating an economic activity to a commercial fund without payment of taxes or taxes at the time of the transfer. In order to ensure that the model is targeted at the transfer of real enterprises and that the fund continues to operate, it is proposed that the fund should be a commercial fund whose purpose is to own and operate through a dominant shareholding; that the fund should not have a family purpose; that the fund owns at least 25%. of the shares in the company and more than 50%. of the voting rights; and that the assets are irrevocably separated from the founder; and finally that the transferred company must not be a so-called money tank at the time of the transfer and 5 years thereafter. It is the view of the Social Democratic Party that the new tax model will mean that the transfer to a business fund will be an attractive alternative to other models for a generational change, which is why I am also sure that the new model will help to create incentives for more foundations in Denmark. Social democracy can, of course, vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030104619	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030104631	One can say that this bill has had a tough birth, for it actually started with an agreement back in 2013, which we were several parties that entered into with the then SR government. It was a growth initiative that should create better opportunities for, and thus ensure, that we could get more companies to be transferred to commercial funds. After all, we are all familiar with the economic funds, such as the European Social Fund. The Carlsberg Foundation and the Novo Nordisk Foundation are helping to get different things through in Denmark on a daily basis. They are also the ones who run these companies, so they remain in Denmark and it is ensured that jobs stay in Denmark, and that is what we are really happy about. So commercial funds are an incredibly good thing. That is why we had reached an agreement that we should improve the possibility of transferring companies to business funds at the time of generational change. This resulted in an inter-ministerial working group that came up with a legislative proposal in 2015, and there was no satisfaction in the business community at all. It was thought that we were completely wrong with that bill, and that was certainly not the intention of what was intended to do better, not less. Therefore, Karsten Lauritzen, when he was Minister of Taxation, set up a working group across the industries not only an interministerial but also consisting of people from outside to look at how we could have this knitted together in a way, so it became a proper arrangement that was actually useful and did not impair the conditions for getting business funds in Denmark. And that's the bill that's here now. So it has been a very, very long process, it has been a difficult birth, but nevertheless we are very pleased with the result that exists, because we believe that it does not make things worse compared to getting business funds, but better, and that is what has been the whole essence of it. I do not want to go into all the technology, because the former rapporteur has done so, but I would just like to say that we in the Left naturally support this bill, which we have supported all the way through since 2013, in 2015, and most recently with the agreement in 2018. The Liberal Alliance does not have the opportunity to be here, but they are also part of the agreement, which is why I would also like to welcome them and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030104845	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030104850	Thank you. Mrs Louise Schack Elholm says in her speech that we are doing this because we want to maintain some Danish jobs, and there is a greater chance of that if it is a commercial fund. And that's actually true if it's a business fund that's located in Denmark, but with this bill you spend 170 million. kr. to also open the way for it to become a commercial fund in another EU country. And then the argument and what we actually agreed on in 2013 fall a little to the ground when you not only get a business fund, but can actually open up in Austria or Sweden, or wherever you want to, and then it is not jobs in Denmark. So I would like to ask whether it is not still a good purpose, but where the solution is outside the dial compared to what was wanted in 2013.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030104931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030104933	A fund can already be set up outside Denmark, in other countries, quite broadly. It's just called something else, but it's also recognised in Danish tax legislation. By doing this, you get a clear definition of what we acknowledge. And it is clear that it will apply to the whole of the European Union. It is, after all, part of the internal market that we must move across borders. But basically, of course, my wish is that it should take place in Denmark, and it is also my very clear expectation that it will do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030104957	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030105001	Yes, but the rapporteur thus confirms my thesis that this does not provide jobs in Denmark. This ensures that a commercial fund can be created with fiscal incentives, but also a fund in another EU country. Wouldn't it be better to spend the 170 million? kr. e.g. to lower some taxes, thus ensuring a better Danish competitiveness, so that it would pay to do business in Denmark, and so we might have a profit on the bottom line instead? Wouldn't it be better to spend 170 million? kr. in a better competitive environment rather than supporting the creation of a fund, whether it is now in Denmark or in Sweden or where it should be? Isn't that a bad way to spend the money?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030105033	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030105035	Now it doesn't have to be a either-or. In other words, we also think that taxes are too high and we think that the government is making too many tax increases which make it harder to be a company in Denmark. And with the increased generational tax, there is also the risk that you will sell your business abroad instead of keeping jobs in Denmark. So this is an opportunity for us to maintain those jobs in Denmark. And if we look at the business funds in Denmark, it is not a problem that they are moving their headquarters out of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030105102	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030105110	Thank you. As mentioned above, the reason for this proposal is that a broad majority in the Danish Parliament would like to have more commercial funds through an agreement as far back as 2013, so that is something that has been going on for a long time. The debate at the time was that people wanted to ensure that jobs remained in Denmark. As the rapporteur of the Left also said, there was a greater chance of this if you had a business fund in Denmark, as opposed to if, for example, you had a business fund in Denmark. was bought by a foreign capital fund, which then moved the jobs to another country. It started by setting up an inter-ministerial working group, which came back with a model that nobody wanted. Then a new working group was set up, which still had a lot of criticism, and it has done so that several of the parties that were behind the original agreement have dropped out. And this is actually due to the fact that we have now reached a solution that goes beyond what we originally wanted to solve. Now, with state aid in your pocket, you can set up a fund that is located in another country, which is exactly the opposite of what you originally wanted to solve in 2013. So I think we should ask ourselves whether this is a good idea, whether it is within the objective that was in 2013 or whether the money might well be spent on something else that benefited the business community. As I mentioned in my question, how about lowering some taxes so that you had a better competitiveness and perhaps made profits on the bottom line, so there was an incentive to stay in Denmark? Because is it really ownership that matters? Of course, ownership in Denmark is good, but is it a good deal when you also give money to make a business fund in another country? I guess you didn't hit the target you wanted. So the objective of more commercial funds can, in effect, be good enough. I also think that the very model that has been found is sensible enough, if only it could be picked out, that one also gave support for the creation of a fund in another EU country. And then I just think that you are going to miss the objective you had. That is also why, in the Danish People's Party, we jumped out of the agreement that was concluded in 2013, i.e. because we could not measure up to this agreement. So the message from the Danish People's Party is that we need the 170 million. kr. In the case of other more targeted business incentives, it could, for example: I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. So the Danish People's Party cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030105327	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030105331	I would like to ask the Danish People's Party how you view the so-called holding model and whether we should perhaps make an amendment. After all, there is criticism from a number of large companies. Dansk Erhverv and Dansk Industri say directly that they doubt that the draft law in its present form will lead to more fund ownership, and that is actually the purpose of it. We are, of course, a little sad about this, also because it was we who did it originally when we were in government. But we'd like to adjust it so that we're allowed this holding model where companies can transfer shares if they're in a holding company, so that they can transfer to a fund. Is this something that the Danish People's Party could be involved in?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030105410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030105412	As I have read the hearing answers or the note, they seem to have been tampered with, so as I understand it, I think the problem has been solved in relation to what I am familiar with. So it is hard to be opposed when it is actually already resolved in the legislative proposal, as I have at least read it. The Minister may be able to answer it when he stands on the platform. At least that's how I read it, that's how it's ripped out.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030105433	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. That is why we can move on to Mrs Kathrine Ollldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030105442	Thank you. It is a pleasure to discuss this proposal today. My very first meeting with my new colleagues, after we started here in the Folketing last year, was actually about this bill. There I bitterly regretted that I had agreed to become a tax rapporteur, because it was fucking long-haired. Holding what does that mean? I simply had to google it among other things. I'm sorry; I'm a linguistic student. What can you do? But eventually I actually think I've succeeded in digging into this bill. And, of course, we warmly support the Radical Left. It was a pleasure to hear the Social Democrat rapporteur review the technique, then to hear the rapporteur from the Liberal Party review the history and then to hear the DF's rapporteur address some of the problems that annoy DF, namely that we have freedom of movement in Europe, both when it comes to the location of companies, but also when it comes to where you want to work, and that this legislation might just take care that we take a little better care of Danish companies, so there is this possibility of success in the form of a business fund. We were also just put in place that we had the team part taken out of the bill, so all the trouble, all the distress and all the criticism from Danish business companies in this course has also been met. That is why we are actually left with a very good bill, which is actually a good way through and a good alternative to generational change in companies. That is why, of course, we warmly support it, and I am pleased that we can finally close this bill after seven years of discussions on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030105629	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would just like to say that there was a very powerful expression at the beginning of the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030105637	I would actually like to ask the Radical Left what kind of problem this bill would like to solve. What is it that you support? Originally, it was the case that one wanted to ensure that there was greater certainty that jobs remained in Denmark. I understand that the Radical Left is very big supporters of the European Union, and fair enough. There are political differences; that is not what we are talking about here. But can we not agree that we are hitting a little off the dial when we can actually set up a fund in Italy, in Spain or in Sweden with the 170 million? kr. In the back? Is that the problem you want to solve, that is to say that you have to have the jobs moved out of the country, because that is what is possible with this tax dollars thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030105714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030105716	As a company, you have the opportunity, as it is now, to set up a fund in the European Union. There's nothing in this bill that doesn't prevent or improve that opportunity. For us, this is an opportunity for Danish companies to have an alternative to generational change, which was, of course, a bill we dealt with last year. So this is for them another way of organizing, which may also be much more flexible a long way along the way. So we really do support everything we can to help Danish companies change their generation in a proper and sensible way. That's one thing. The second thing is that you also have to remember that this is not just about the Tuborg Foundation and the Carlsberg Foundation, etc. This is acting, for example. It is also about self-serving institutions that sometimes organise themselves as a business fund. They can be social institutions or educational institutions • tiny companies. SME Denmark is filled with business funds that drive and carry out a social task in this way, and there we are not speculating about moving anything to Spain or anything. So for them, this is also a way to send the company to the next generation in a good way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030105819	Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030105821	But if the overall goal is that you would like to have good conditions to operate in Denmark and I think there is quite a broad consensus on that in the Danish Parliament, wouldn't it be better to look at what makes them get black numbers on the bottom line, i.e. get profits? It could, for example, be done. be a removal of taxes for 170 million. kr. Wasn't it better instead of looking at who's gonna own it? So, is it ownership that is essential for us to have jobs, or is it perhaps the fact that there is a good competitiveness in Denmark that is crucial? I think it is obvious that it is better to spend 170 million. kr. to create a better competitiveness, so companies want to be in Denmark, instead of the ownership, which is what matters, which is what we put 170 million. kr. In here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030105855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030105857	I think that is an exciting suggestion. When it comes to black figures on the bottom line, and if we are going to go that way and look at stock margin taxation, we in the Radical Left are also always fresh at a discussion of it, but that is not what this bill is all about. That is why we are really just dealing with what is within the framework of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030105916	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030105931	Thank you. It was planned that our business rapporteur and former tax rapporteur, Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, should have taken it here, and it has also been emphasised in the debate that this proposal has been a long time in the process. Unfortunately, she has been prevented and that is why I have been sent a speech which I will read out. The Socialist People's Party was involved in the negotiations. Unfortunately, we had to drop out at that time. This was due to the change in the model of how distributions from funds are deducted from their taxable income, the so-called priority rule. We were worried about how this change would lead to too low taxation. The proposal is based on the agreement between the then Blue Government and the Social Democracy and the Radical Left. As has been produced, we are still not convinced whether the bill taxes companies sufficiently in the transfer. Therefore, on behalf of the SF, I would like to ask the Minister of Taxation a note on how taxation has changed as a result of the new model of the prioritising rule. If we get more clarity on this tax and can assess taxation as being justified, we will consider supporting the proposal. Until then, we cannot immediately support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030110040	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030110042	Thank you. In fact, we in the Enhedslisten belong to the business rapporteur, Mrs Victoria Velasquez, but there are also important tax elements in this, and that is why I am glad to take the bill here today, which is the outcome of a political agreement between the Social Democratic Party, the former government and the Radical Left, where new tax rules were agreed for the transfer of businesses to commercial funds. Basically, it should be made as lax as possible so that more companies are transferred to commercial funds in the future. There has been a long period in which it has been very rare for companies to be transferred to commercial funds. What we have been able to understand in the debate is a clear political agenda for the Social Democrats: they want more companies to come under a business fund rather than being handed over to the next generation, so that Danish industry is dominated by family dynasties, or that companies are sold to foreign capital funds which could, to a greater or lesser extent, move jobs away from Denmark. In many ways it is a sympathetic intention. However, there is perhaps a reason why the only people who ended up in that agreement, apart from Social Democracy, are the bourgeois-liberal parties, including the Radical Left, in this context. The proposal for a directive is very tax-free and also too lenient; the transfer must be tax-free. It is the whole hops and it is an incentive to make it more attractive to transfer to a commercial fund. However, it is not a matter of fiscal success in the traditional sense, i.e. that the fund takes the place of the transferor's tax liability. Instead, a founder tax of 22 per cent is made to be paid if the fund gives up the shares and makes a profit. However, the tax is paid only on the profit margin at the time of transfer from the transferor to the fund. If the fund later surrenders the shares and the value has since increased sharply, this profit margin is not taken into account. This means that you potentially get far too little tax in relation to the real value, and Enhedslisten cannot accept that. It is a good thing that the proposal here is wary of the money-tank rule, which is about the fact that it is a money-tank if a company's business is largely passive in capital formation. What we consider to be of immediate concern and which we are going to ask about in the legislative process is that we only have to comply with the money-tank rule for the first five years. We do not really understand why the old holding model is being kept. The idea was precisely to simplify and improve the possibility of transferring the company to a commercial fund, and if there is already a model of practice which is hardly tampered with, then it seems a little superfluous with a completely new model. It seems strange that a model should be retained when we know that tax loopholes can be opened up in this respect, and we are also going to ask about this in committee. Then we are also surprised that the proposal also refers to funds abroad, and that has also been raised by Mr Beazley. Dennis Flydtkjær here today. This bill was supposed to be used to maintain Danish jobs in Denmark, and as far as one can see from the working group model and from the bill, the company or fund can be moved abroad, but then the jobs have also moved out of the country, and why is it not better protected against this risk? We find that problematic. Overall, this does not look like a bill that Enhedslisten can support, but if significant changes can be introduced into the bill, we may be persuaded to vote in favour of the bill. What it should be is that we in the Enhedslisten have a great deal of focus on supporting democratically managed companies, and if in this bill you can build in similar tax concessions, if you transfer the company to a employee-owned fund, that is, transfer the company to the employees, then we are enough to talk to. Basically, we believe that this bill should be replaced entirely, so that only a transfer to an employee fund should receive these tax advantages. In our view, this is a much better way of ensuring that Danish jobs stay in Denmark and that the profits go for useful purposes. If we can have a transfer to an employee fund included in the bill, it could change our position, but as the bill stands now, Enhedslisten cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030110550	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030110600	We have no objections to the draft law in the format in which it is now in place. It is, of course, a bill that we ourselves had made when we sat in government and the purpose of it is to ensure that shares can be transferred to a fund, so that a large part of the value of a company is not cut off when it is transferred to a fund. We also regard this fund ownership as beneficial, and we do not want to fight it by saying that the tax administration must take a very large share of the value of the companies if they are transferred to a fund. I think there is some confusion about the format, because a letter has been sent to the Danish Parliament stating that the bill was tabled unchanged, but I understand that the holding model has been withdrawn. It may also be said that I have been on leave from the Folketing for a few months, and perhaps I have missed the fact that it has been taken out but I am surprised that it says in the letter transmitted that it is an unchanged submission if it is the case that there have actually been changes in the legislative proposal. And again, I would actually like us to have updated these consultation responses, because I find it confusing to have to read consultation answers from a number of parties commenting on a draft law which is one and a half years old and has been amended since then, so a large part of the objections raised in the hearings are no longer relevant. There, I think, it would be a good idea to obtain new comments from companies and organisations so that we get their comments on the legislative proposal in the form in which it is presented rather than comments on the legislative proposal as it appeared a year and a half ago. However, as I understand the content of the draft law, we have no objections to it and we intend to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030110758	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030110806	There are many ways to solve the transfer of business companies owned for generations on the basis of which you can also remove the inheritance tax both for individuals and for companies. So you solve a lot of these problems, too. After all, there are many solutions that can be chosen and there are many good bourgeois solutions. This is then a solution that has been tried and there are also positive elements in it. Dansk Folkeparti is looking for other places where we can lower taxes; I'd love to meet with DF's rapporteur, and then we'll have to find lots.This is another place where we can lower it, and I think we can get together to do it in many other places. So basically, we're positive about this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030110850	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030110900	Thank you for that, President. And thank you very much for the debate and very positive receipt of this bill on the taxation of business, as has also been said, the transfer of businesses to what it is all about, namely commercial funds. As Mrs Schack Elholm also said, the draft law is a re-submission of L 156, which was tabled here on 26 March. Rasmus Jarlov, that is not a year and a half ago, but on 26 March 2020 it disappeared because it did not have time to be dealt with here in the previous session. I have to say that I am pleased that we in this House can now finally, at long last and after a very long run, deal with the legislative proposal on this new tax model, for which there is broad political support. It's a job that's been going on a long time. The preparatory work started back in 2013 with the "Growth Plan" DK, as it was then called, and subsequently there have been two working groups. The proposal from the first working group was criticised for not being applicable in practice, which is not so good, which is why a new working group with external experts was set up in 2016, as was also said, and the working group made its recommendations back in 2018. At the end of 2018, a new agreement was reached in this area, which then replaces it from 2013, and the 2018 agreement was then an agreement between the VLAK government, the Social Democracy and the Radical Left on the implementation of the model, which was then recommended by the working group in 2018. Now we are here in 2020, seven years later, and I would, of course, like to take this opportunity to thank not least the working group for the model which, of course, significantly improves the conditions for the transfer to commercial funds and which, at the same time, I think, balances the many different considerations that are true here. It is my clear conviction that this new tax model will mean that the transfer to a commercial fund will be an attractive alternative to other models of generational change. That is why I am actually also convinced that this new model will help to create incentives for more foundations in Denmark, and I consider this to be fundamentally positive. With the new model, shares in companies operating a business activity may be transferred to a commercial fund without payment of profit or tax on property and gift at the time of transfer. The tax payment shall be deferred until the fund receives any dividends or sells the shares. This means that the tax on potentially very large latent profits is not triggered by the transfer. In this way, the new tax model reduces the liquidity burden of a transfer. There have been criticisms of certain elements of the model. Among other things: the transfer of control over the company has been criticised. The condition resulting from the recommendations of the working group should then help to ensure that the model can be used only if the fund actually transfers the operation of the company and therefore the transfer of control is required. In addition, it has been criticised that the company must not be a money tank, as Mr. Rune Lund said so. This means that the company must not consist predominantly of passive capital formation, as it is called. That condition must be seen in the light of the fact that the company entrusted has to operate a genuinely active economic activity. In this respect, the draft law also follows the recommendations of the working group. Finally, I would like to make a few comments on the part of the draft law concerning the so-called 'holding model'. At the hearing, the original proposal to amend the holding model was criticised for countering the draft law's intention to contribute to several foundations. The draft law has now been amended so that the holding model can continue to be applied, but it is proposed that in future an authorisation from the Tax Council should be obtained for this issue, and this should make it possible to counter the use of the holding model for tax avoidance, for example. in connection with the transfer to funds abroad. A long time along the way, this proposal has been. Thank you for your positive support. There are, and may be, many technical questions in this, and we are happy to take them in the Committee on Taxes in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030111406	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030111420	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030111432	Thank you for the floor. I think that we all feel bad about the Coronapandemic and that we have a common hope that the fight against the Covid-19 infection will soon be won. In relation to Corona, Covid-19 and the health crisis, it is absolutely crucial for Danish companies and workplaces, yes, crucial for our common prosperity and well-being, crucial for people and society that we do everything possible to mitigate the negative economic consequences of covid-19 as well as the health consequences. It acts among other things. to ensure that Danish companies can continue to develop and exploit new innovative solutions that can help strengthen them in international competition. We must maintain the strengths of our companies in this area, including when it comes to converting to sustainable production. The bill is part of the stimuli initiative agreement, and it aims to mitigate the economic consequences of the outbreak of the covid-19 for Danish industry and exports. Specifically, the draft law consists of three parts. Firstly, it is proposed to increase the deduction of expenditure on experimental and research activities temporarily to 130%. in the years 2020 and 2021. At the same time, a ceiling of 50 million will be introduced. kr. in tax value. This corresponds to the fact that an entity at group level can obtain an additional deduction on the basis of expenditure up to 845 million. kr. in the year 2020 and in the year 910 million; kr. in the income year 2021. However, expenditure in excess of the ceiling may continue to be deducted in accordance with the applicable rules by 103% respectively. in the 2020 and 105% income years; in the income year 2021. This helps to mitigate the negative impact of covid-19, which has been on Danish companies' research efforts. Investment is also a fundamental prerequisite for the international competitiveness of export companies, as well as contributing to increased productivity for the benefit of our economy as a whole when research and development in one company is affecting other companies. Secondly, it is proposed that private landlords of holiday homes should receive financial support during the year 2020 by increasing the base allowance for rental of holiday homes from DKK 41,800. for 60,000 kroner. In this way, we increase the incentive to rent holiday homes by 2020 and help create more employment activity in the summer cottage areas and typically in rural areas, where we should have a special focus on development, job creation and settlement. Finally, a new State limited company, called the Fund, must be created. The fund will provide assistance to recapitalise social and healthy Danish companies that may continue to be challenged on the capital base as a result of the covid-19. The present draft law proposes that the Fund should be exempt from tax liability. Social democracy can, of course, vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030111803	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we move on to Mr. Kim Valentin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030111825	Thank you, Mr President. This bill is about the agreement that the Left entered into with the government and a large majority in the Folketing this summer to take the first steps towards a reboot of the Danish economy. I would like to start by saying that the Left has worked hard to get certain parts into the proposal. A strong and development-focused economy is a prerequisite for growth and prosperity and the well-being of all. Good conditions for running a business are what provide jobs and finance for our common society. It is therefore essential that we politicians create the best framework for business to come safely, securely and strengthened out of the economic crisis brought about by Covid-19. Many professions are in an extremely vulnerable situation, which is why political management is crucial to how we get through the economic crisis. For this reason, the Left has fought to initiate measures to boost Danish economy. The left was marked by the agreement this summer, and the bill contains the following three proposals. Firstly, it proposes a higher deduction for business research and development. Innovation is one of the largest strengths of Danish business. The reduction in investment in research and development by companies is raised to 130 per cent by the agreement. in 2020 and 2021. For each time Danish companies invest 100 DKK. in research and development, they can in future receive a deduction of DKK 130. This will boost investment and innovation. It is essential that Danish companies have an incentive to develop and exploit new innovative solutions that can help strengthen them in international competition. It is in this way, among other things, that we create jobs in Denmark. The left is in favour and has pressed for the 130 per cent deduction. be made permanent. In fact, this was also what the Social Democratic Party did in the last election campaign. For investment is not only at the heart of crises, but indeed also at times of recovery. Investments are the way to new growth, which can give both companies and Denmark new opportunities. It will also benefit companies' green and digital conversion, where major investments in research and new technology will be needed over the next many years. We can see in the consultation answers that it is difficult to find clear definitions of what is included in the deduction for experimental and research activities. We think there is a need for clarification on this. After all, the aim of the legislation is to create incentives for increased investment in research and development, and the incentive disappears if there is no clarity as to whether or not a research project is covered. That is why we would like to have a technical hearing. Secondly, the draft law proposes an increase in the summer house allowance. The agreement raises the base allowance for rent of summer houses from 41.800 DKK. for 60,000 kroner. in 2020, and it will give a much-needed hand to the industry. We have fought hard for this too in the Left. This will create increased activity and jobs in the Danish cottage areas, which are also located in rural areas, which is extremely important to focus on. Thirdly, the draft law proposes to exempt from tax the limited liability company set up by the State, the Fund. The Left, of course, will vote in favour of the bill as we are part of the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030112248	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030112257	The reason for this bill is that a lot of help packages have been made to stimulate the economy and mitigate the economic consequences of the covid-19. Many people have been hit by it, and that is one of them. our export industry, tourism and the experience industry; some of them are hard hit. So it is good that we have been many to make a number of different approaches in different agreements. One of the measures, as has already been mentioned, is to increase companies' deductions for research and experimental activities by 2020 and 2021, so that in both years they can be deducted by 130%, i.e. in those years of income. It is quite reasonable, and also the fact that a ceiling is actually being set on it, we think it makes good sense. It is an initiative that costs 1.2 billion. kr., which is then financed by loans. The second measure, which I think is very good, is that there will be a higher base allowance for the rental of holiday homes. It was the case that the border at the beginning of the year was closed and it cost a great deal to the tourism industry, because then no German tourists came in. And there are cottages such a basic infrastructure that they come and spend the night in, and when they are here, they also spend money in adventure parks or in the local put and take lake or on other things. It is clear that by providing an increased incentive to rent your holiday home when the border was opened, more people came to rent and there was a greater interest in getting them to do so. That is quite positive. I also think that we have had the positive experience over the summer, that there are a lot of Danes who have actually taken a holiday in Denmark and have taken advantage of the opportunity to rent a summer house, and I think and will almost predict that it will also happen in 2021. That is why I would just like to appeal from this point of view to give the higher deduction in 2021 as well. This is all about this year alone, but you could also give a higher deduction next year, so it's also up to $60,000. Next year. Because I'm not thinking that we expect the corona to be completely phased out when it gets there, and I think, if nothing else, that there are probably quite a lot of Danes who feel most comfortable staying at home in Denmark, so you're close to the Danish health system if you're going to get sick. So it's a call for us to include in this bill, too, the raising of the deduction in 2021. However, if nothing else, we warmly support this bill, in which there are good initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030112522	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mrs Kathrine Oldag, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030112531	Thank you very much, President. Of course we support this bill, which is the implementation of an agreement we have made in connection with the covid-19 crisis. However, like the rapporteur from the Left, I would also like to take a trip to the helicopter, because it is absolutely crucial if we are to maintain the strong business structure and our welfare society that we improve our competitiveness. It stands for me as a key learning here in the middle of the crisis. Hearing aids from Widex, insulin from Novo Nordisk or pumps from Grundfos when companies research and develop, new knowledge and new innovative products are created for the benefit of Denmark. A number of Danish companies are already in the world elite when it comes to research and development, but as a country we need to improve the undergrowth of small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why, of course, we are extremely pleased with this research and development allowance, which we actually fought a brave battle in the Radical Left to be part of the agreement. So, of course, we are very pleased that the Left also supports it and is very happy with that part. The fact that the Left also thinks that this should be made permanent is entirely in line with where we are, so I would be delighted if we could see in the Left's draft budget how we can carry it here further in a permanent arrangement. It is, of course, an exciting majority that we may be able to create here across the Chamber. If you look down on the list of the 2,500 most research-heavy companies in the world, you see that 30 of them are Danish, and on the corresponding list of the 1,000 most research-heavy companies in the EU, 44 companies are Danish. We are good at researching and developing, but we could easily get better, and if we see the research allowance in the light of the government's plan to reach a CO2 by 2030, it is crucial for us in the Radical Left that it is made permanent. It makes absolutely the most sense. And no, it is not today that we are taking the debate on permanentisation, but I wanted to warm up to it, because of course we support this proposal. On the other hand, I see no reason for the increased deduction to holiday home owners to be permanent when we get there. It's probably not quite the rental, it's gonna be on the Danish coast for the next few years, and we can see that now, because there's simply no room available anywhere. But of course we support the proposal in its entirety, just as we have agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030112750	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030112759	Thank you. SF was included in the summer agreement on aid packages, stimuli initiatives and export initiatives. It is clear, of course, that we need to help in society where the Corona crisis has hit the hardest, and in this case it is through initiatives that can help business, tourism and social institutions. In relation to increasing companies' deductions for research costs and experiments, we would have preferred that the money for research could be spent in a different way than through increased deductions, for example. support for green research could be developed, and in this way we could make sure that, from the phase-out of the corona crisis, we were already focusing on taking developments in a greener direction. However, we do not want to stand in the way of incentives to get things moving. In the summer there has been significantly less foreign tourism in Denmark than there used to be, and therefore support for that sector has also been appropriate. However, we must also note that it has since become apparent that almost all summer houses have been fully booked, since the Danes have taken their holidays at home. Finally, part of the legislative proposal also concerns the recapitalisation fund, which is intended to help social organisations from collapsing as a consequence of the corona crisis. This part continues to support the SF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030112913	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are now moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030112925	The three elements we are discussing here today are, after all, part of a major political agreement which was reached on 15 June this year and which contained many different elements, including many different improvements, among others. better opportunities for support for self-employed freelancers and combinators, for self-employed people to be entitled to benefit without 12 months' prior membership of the insurance fund, an extension of the sickness benefit period and the benefit system, extended Su-loans, cultural compensation schemes, payment of frozen holiday funds equivalent to 3 weeks, a summer check, which is a one-off grant of DKK 1.000. to benefit recipients and many other things that were essential to Enhedslisten to get into the negotiations. In relation to the bill we are discussing today, of course we are voting in favour. It is part of an agreement that we have reached, but I do not want to hide the fact that the first two parts of the proposal are not something we are overly excited about; it was part of a single package just so it is quite clear. On the other hand, we are very pleased with the third part of the recapitalisation fund bill. It has been absolutely crucial for us that if the Danish state is to help, in other words if society is to help needy companies, we as a society must also be paid for what reflects the risk we take. This was not the case during the financial crisis just over 10 years ago, when, among other things, we were talking about the financial crisis. bank packages were made available to a lot of banks; thousands of billions were made available in risk capital, and far too little was made out of it. If you take the pure income, it's about 17 billion. kr., which will then be the cost to the banks. You can deduct that from the tax, and then the amount goes even further down. And if we add to that the interest costs that the State had to provide with credibility guarantee schemes, then the bank packages will actually end up being a minus. What you should have done, among other things. In relation to a bank like Danske Bank, you used an upside model, where when you went in and saved the bank, you got paid in shares. In other words, what we are doing with the recapitalisation fund here and now, or what is possible, what we can and that means that the taxpayers, the Danes, the citizens of our society can now be sure that we have a construction that means that, in relation to the risk we take as a society when we go in and rescue businesses, we also receive a payment that corresponds to the risk we take as a society. It is, of course, very sensible and it has been very crucial for the Enhedslisten that this fund came into the agreement and we have fought hard for it. That is why we are very pleased with the part of the draft law and the part of the agreement that I think gives some further prospects in terms of looking at how the state can play a positive role in owning parts of companies, but also in terms of how to make an active partnership positive. This isn't part of the agreement with the recapitalisation fund... it's a passive ownership... but this allows you to get some good experience of how we as a community and how the state can play a positive role in these companies, in these private companies. After all, it is also a debate that has been called into question, because today it is often not the case, and we will see that if there is an economic crisis, it is a question of whether states should own or not own. It may be a question of whether it is the Chinese state via a state-controlled company that buys up key Danish companies or buys into them, or it may be capital funds where the ownership circle is a circle that we may not think is a ownership circle that should own key industries or companies that are central to the Danish economy. That is why I believe that the debate on the fund and the fact that it was included in an agreement can open up, of course, for us to deal in concrete terms with a possible crisis in which it needs to be activated better, but also in the longer term, so that we can look at the positive opportunities which also lie in the fact that the Danish state can become more involved in active ownership.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030113416	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment which has just been made here at the last minute, but within that moment, to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030113426	Thank you. It is just a matter of whether the rapporteur can specify it. It is true that the bank packages that went specifically to the banks went roughly zero, but overall they gave what we call the bank packages all the commitments that were given at that time, in fact, a positive subsidy to the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030113440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030113443	The figure is that if you look only at the revenue that came from the bank packages directly, they are in the vicinity of 17 billion. kr. After all, interest costs are costs which companies can deduct from their tax payments. It is so hard to know, and we have not been told in the Folketing what the figure will be if you include it, but a shot from the hip is 10 billion. kr. But what we also need to include in that calculation in order to get the overall picture is, of course, the state financial expenditure we have had as a state in order to be able to make the guarantees available. Loans have been raised in the market, and when the interest costs of the State are taken into account, the bank packages give a minus. The bank packages go down because you have to have the overall picture. But I would also just like to say that even if the profits were 17 billion. kr. kr. is available in extreme risk capital, is 17 billion. kr. So a particularly good return on it? I don't think so. Even with the 17 billion. kr. The bank packages are a very bad business.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030113550	A second brief comment by Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030113552	No, the good business was so that we still had a community that was driving and that we were not in chaos thereby, so it is also a good business, you might say. But I would like to go along with Enhedslisten to ask a question, so we will have this completely clarified, because there are some ambiguities here, yes, and right now it is speculation from the Enhedslisten whether it actually ends in zero. So if you have some doubts as to whether these figures are available, then I think we should ask for the very specific figures so that we can get the very clear bottom line. Because if the alternative is right that it went to minus, I think it is fair enough to produce it from the platform. But if it doesn't, I think we should also get some clarity about this once and for all.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030113625	Thank you to the rapporteur. It is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur and not the Alternative rapporteur, but it will be all right.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030113631	The alternative is also a nice party. That's what I'm gonna say. But I am now from the Enhedslisten. We've been stalking this case for a long time. Even when the bank packages were given, we asked for these numbers, and we got them in a way. I think it is good to get up-to-date figures; I think we can ask questions about that. What is at stake here is, for example, the fact that we are dealing with this matter. in relation to Danske Bank, it did not use an upside model, which is the one contained in the recapitalisation fund. This means that with the large increase that has subsequently been in Danske Bank's shares, and now they have fallen again due to the money laundering scandal and all sorts of other things, the state missed a huge increase in value, even though it took a high risk. We just shouldn't end up in that situation again, and we can make sure that we don't do this with this recapitalisation fund, which is why the fund is a very good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030113719	Then there is another brief comment on the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030113723	How to obtain a tax credit of 10 billion. kr., if you have interest costs for 17 billion. kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030113733	I don't know the exact number. It's a complicated calculation. The fact is that interest costs, which the banks have, are, of course, a cost that can be deducted from taxes, and there are some very complicated rules. Whether the figure ends at a quarter of 17 billion. kr., from which you can subtract, or whether it ends up in other things, is a complicated calculation, and I cannot stand and do that from the Speaker's Chair of the Danish Parliament. But the figure is in fact less than the 17 billion. If, as I have said, interest costs, which we have had as a state to make the bank packages available, are deducted, then the bank packages simply go down, which is a scandal. This is absolutely scandalous.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030113809	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov for another remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030113811	That's fair enough. It is probably reasonably certain that the deduction is significantly lower. We have a corporation tax of 22 to 24 per cent, so it has been historically, in recent years at least. So that's probably in that rent out of the 17 billion. kr., you can save tax, and it is probably also certain that if you have revenue of 17 billion in the state. kr. And then it gets a little lower, so still gone is a pretty big profit that will be for the Treasury.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030113842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030113844	Yeah, yeah, 17 billion. kr. is better than 0 billion. kr., but if an upside model had been used in relation to Danske Bank, which is in the recapitalisation fund here, we would have received much more than 17 billion. kr. just in relation to Danske Bank, and we didn't get that because we had a government at the time, which was a blue government, which had a scandalous deal with taxpayers' money, and which ran bad grocery business with taxpayers' values. And now, fortunately, we're just in a situation where we have a construction, a fund that can prevent it from happening again, and I'm just really happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030113919	Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Kim Valentin from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030113923	Thank you. I am just taking the floor to ask the rapporteur whether the Enhedslisten is not in favour of an agreement, because it was agreed exactly what was to be paid between the banks and the state in this context, and I assume that Enhedslisten also believes that it is OK. But on the question of 17 billion. kr., you shouldn't take the 17 billion. kr. in relation to the frame. Then you have to take the 17 billion. kr. in relation to what was actually used by the frame, and that is something else. This is a bit like having a $100,000 bank credit, not paying for the $100,000, but paying for what you have spent on the $100,000, and if you, for example, pay for it. In average you have spent 25,000 kroner, you pay for that part and not for the 100,000 kroner. I think that should be borne in mind, which is why it is not healthy for us to point our finger at the banks when they actually pay what they have to pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030114029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030114031	Yes, an agreement is an agreement and the agreement that was reached and it has been complied with, because agreements must be respected, but it was just a really bad agreement. And if you make 17 billion. kr. We must remember that Denmark was simply at risk of going seriously back 10 years ago, and had it not been because the Community funds were used to hold hands under companies and banks, then it would have gone completely wrong. In this situation, it is only important that the community, to the state, is a payment that reflects the risk that one takes. There wasn't then, and it was scandalous. Now we have here a construction which can ensure that, as a society, if we again need to save businesses and invest capital, then we also know that we know, for example, that we do not want to lose money. receiving a payment in shares can be paid for the risk that we take, so that taxpayers and the community do not take all the risk, and so that private companies, including banks, cannot score the entire prize when you get out on the other side of the crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030114142	Thank you. Sir. Kim Valentin for another comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030114144	Thank you. It is very semantic that you just point the finger at the banks today and say that it is where all the blame for all the misfortunes in society is, and therefore you can just demand the money out of them all sorts of places. That's what I'm arresting because you can't. In fact, they have shown a social spirit, if we say so, over the last few months, and they have helped in this context. With regard to what happened ten years ago: yes, it was good that we saved them, otherwise we would not have been able to do what we did in this round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030114220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030114222	Yes, yes, the banks had to be saved, but the whole discussion is on what terms they had to be saved, and they just got an too good deal because the community took the whole risk and they could score the prize when we got out on the other side of the crisis. In relation to the socialism thing: it is, I think, a rather special form of community mind when we see money laundering scandals when we see that recovery is going completely when we see how banks in Denmark have behaved, by the way, as a thank you, or how to understand it, for the many billions in aid packages that society made available to them during the financial crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030114255	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030114313	Then we just got a round of socio-economic debate clubs here. It didn't have much to do with the bill, but it was an exciting debate about bank packages, which we understand is the biggest economic scandal... probably only surpassed by the fact that at one point Goldman Sachs helped us make Ørsted several hundred billion dollars more worth. I guess it's the biggest scandal in Enhedslisten's eyes. Back to the L 30 bill, which is actually the reason why we are here: there I have nothing more to say than that the Conservative People's Party supports the bill. It is actually just for the simple reason that we made an agreement in June on phasing out aid packages, and these are elements of the agreement that we then implement with this bill, which we think is quite good, also in itself. So support from here, we intend to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030114412	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030114419	Thank you. It is the implementation of an agreement that we did not, of course, participate in in New Citizens, but there are still a whole range of good measures in it, and two of the measures here we are very pleased with the last one with the fund not so much. It is then in contrast to Enhedslisten; it may not come as a surprise. It could be nice and we might ask for it to be split up, because we would very much like to vote in favour of the two things and vote against the third. So it's certainly a wish from us.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030114446	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. That gives it to all the rapporteurs from the parties who wanted to speak. And so the tax minister must be allowed to speak. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030114457	Thank you very much for that, President. And thank you very much for the very broad support there is for the proposal. It is true that the bill has a corner in the very fine, broad and important work that the Danish Parliament has done in connection with the corona crisis. It is absolutely crucial that we mitigate the negative economic consequences of what we are unfortunately still away in the midst of the outbreak of the covid-19, which has led to major consequences for Danish business so that the risk of loss of Danish jobs, prosperity and welfare can be minimised with the very broad agreements we are fortunately still able to make together. I am therefore very pleased that a broad consensus has also been reached on temporarily increasing the deduction for costs for experimental and research activities in order to help ensure that Danish companies still have an incentive to develop and exploit new innovative solutions that can help to strengthen their standing and fight in international competition, which, of course, they are part of all the time. In addition, I am also very pleased that this proposal helps to give private landlords of leisure homes an economic back-up by, as I said, a temporary increase in the base allowance for the rental of leisure homes. If we are going to try to dive into it, the first point about the R & D allowance means quite specifically, in this draft law, that companies' deductions for costs of what is also referred to as experimental and research activities will be increased by 27 per cent in 2020 and 2021 respectively. and 25%, so the deduction is 130%. for both years of income. At the same time, it is proposed to introduce a ceiling on the additional deduction so that it can have a maximum tax value of 50 million. kr. However, expenditure in excess of the proposed ceiling will still be deductible in accordance with the rules in force in this area, i.e. with a deduction of 103 per cent. in the 2020 and 105% income years; in the income year 2021. This initiative is estimated to lead to an immediate reduction in revenue of approx. 1,580 million kr. in 2020 and 1,470 million; kr. In 2021, and of course, a corresponding strengthening of the bottom line of companies investing in research and development. In relation to the rental of leisure accommodation, it is proposed to temporarily increase the basic allowance in the year 2020 for the rental of leisure accommodation, where, as I have said, the reporting is important to the rental income, from DKK 41,800. for 60,000 kroner. In fact, I am also convinced that this initiative will help to strengthen the interest in renting out holiday homes by 2020, which, you might say, is proven by self-sight. All of us who have been on holiday in Denmark have been able to see that it has created both more activity but also very good employment in the summer cottage areas. It's been a pleasure seeing that activity. An increase in the basic allowance for the rental of holiday homes is estimated to result, overall, in an immediate reduction in revenue of approx. 90 million kr. and approx. 70 million kr. after reflows and behavior, as it is called, i.e. in the income year 2020. Finally, as has also been discussed, the draft law contains a proposal to exempt from tax the limited liability company created by the State, which is merely referred to in the draft law as the Fund. The company has now been named the Danish Recovery Fund, and on 22 October the Finance Committee agreed to the creation. Once the establishment of the Danish Recovery Fund has been completed, it is intended that the fund will invest in and thus ensure sufficient capital base in large and indeed healthy Danish companies that will continue to be financially challenged with the capital base as a result of the outbreak of covid-19. May I conclude by signing off on the good cooperation we have had in this area of agreement. It cannot be underestimated how important it is that, despite the fact that we represent different political parties, we are able, even in such serious situations as this one, to come together in very broad agreements and to take the responsibility for Denmark, the Danish economy, employees and Danish jobs, to get through this crisis fairly safely. It's crucial, and that's why this is very important. It is a foundation for our common welfare and also our prosperity and the opportunities to maintain Danish jobs and growth and employment that are so crucial when we come on the other side of this terrible crisis that we are facing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030115027	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. There are no brief comments to the tax minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030115043	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030115105	Thank you for the floor, President. This is about the safety of our citizens, that we can safely walk on streets and straits and in traffic, without being subjected to ruthless driving, drivers driving at too high speeds on roads and in urban areas, and drivers harassing and, for example, driving against red and ignoring the traffic rules in force. These are serious and criminal acts, and we will effectively put an end to this. We have seen far too many examples of driving madness that have resulted in accidents where innocent people have been victims. It has to stop now. In concrete terms, the bill translates parts of the government's proposal... Vanvidsdrift is to be stopped on 6 February 2020 and parts of the agreement on strengthening the engine area concluded by the government by a broad majority on 12 June 2020. Unfortunately, there are many examples of leased cars involved in driving madness, and therefore, firstly, it is proposed that an objectively defined group of leasing companies be given the opportunity to obtain certain information from the Tax Administration about a citizen when the information is to be used to assess the citizen's ability to pay prior to the conclusion of a licence agreement. The disclosure of information from the Tax Administration can only take place when the citizen consents to it. At the same time, the whole range of leasing companies is subject to an obligation to make an assessment of the economy of a potential lessee prior to the conclusion of the lease agreement. Secondly, it is proposed to introduce a 7-day deadline for the application for value loss calculation of second-hand leasing vehicles. This will allow better control of the tax on these vehicles. In addition, customs supervision for the import of second-hand vehicles must be carried out at least four weeks before the request for valuation. In this way, the safety of a proper stand assessment will be enhanced. Thirdly, it is proposed that operators be obliged to report supply and sales prices and other price-forming information for second-hand vehicles. This should be seen in the context of the development of a semi-automatic engine value-setting system. Fourthly and lastly, it is proposed that duty-free vehicles for the carriage of persons may be used for the transport of blood and organs without being taxed; in addition, tax collectors and vehicle importers and manufacturers should be allowed to register information in the Vehicle Register. Social democracy can, of course, vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030115355	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, and that is Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030115410	Thank you for that, President. As the Socialist rapporteur has said, this is a legislative proposal to help curb insanity drivers in Denmark. This is an issue which I think all parties here in the Folketing take very seriously. The pervasive trend we are seeing that someone is running around in cars and completely spreading fear and horror and causing the death of other people is an evil we must have stopped. After all, the police have given us some advice on what it takes to stop it, and one of the effective means, in addition to a sentence of freedom that we will talk about later, is that these cars can be confiscated on the spot; then you put an end to it. That is just what it takes. But it is clear that if we turn to the confiscation of, for example, leased cars, it is quite a far-reaching measure against these leasing companies, which can then suffer a loss. Therefore, it is important for the Left that we equip these trusted leasing companies with some tools to guard against the nasty people who come to lease cars for use in crazy driving, for example. in connection with gangs and other things. Therefore, we welcome the fact that it is now proposed that the leasing companies have access to eSkatData, so that you can thoroughly understand the financial conditions of the lessees before writing a lease. Some further initiatives are needed to provide leasing companies with tools, and this comes with a later bill, we understand, but this is a very good step on the road that we can support in the Left. It has to be the case that in the future, as the police say, we should also, sometimes, such a little shady leasing companies, just in one place just lease out big cars, and then they are almost available as such a car pool for gang members and other criminals who then drive around and spread horror and horror. That is basically what we want to curb effectively, and it requires quite robust measures. In addition to this issue of leasing and driving madness, an agreement was also reached in June this year on a broad political agreement to strengthen the engine area in order to ensure adequate control pressure and to create fair competition in a number of areas. The Socialist rapporteur has made an excellent presentation of these measures, which we can also support in the Left. We should also like to be able to do so when we ourselves are included in the political agreement on this. So all in all, this is a good bill that we can support in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030115708	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, so I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030115721	Thank you. The first element I would like to mention in this draft law is that of insanity drivers, where this is only an approach in the field of taxation, where there are far more initiatives to be taken, and a number of other areas need to be legislated. So this is, you might say, a smaller part of the solution, but after all, a good part of the solution. Part of the problem is that many of these crazy drivers drive such huge muscle cars that are leased. Sometimes they've got a strawman who may be someone who doesn't have a lot of money, or an addict whom they give some money, to stand like the one who leased the car, and then they can continue to drive completely rotten around the cities in these cars. There has been a lot of debate about the fact that you should take a hard line against the leasing companies and perhaps confiscate their cars, and there you can well understand that, of course, they are a little desperate and ask what to do to prevent some crazy drivers from coming along to lease their cars. There you have taken this action, which helps to ensure that they can then look up what is called eSkatData, where they may see property or other things, so that they can avoid there coming these strawmen or others who really shouldn't lease a very large, expensive car, but do it anyway, and then use it for crazy driving. So that is a very good proposal, though a small one, but a good one. Then there is the second part, which we also support, because we are part of the agreement, and that is the problem of calculating the value of leased cars, that is to say those exported, where there has been a lot of fraud, as well as some time limits for submitting your value loss calculations and other things, and how to ensure that the car is in the right condition, so that things are done according to the book, if you can put it that way. It is quite reasonable, therefore, that we should tighten up in this area. So in the Danish People's Party, we can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030115913	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. It does not appear that there are any brief comments to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Kathrine Oldag. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030115920	Thank you. I would like to record that the Radical Left is one hundred percent in agreement with the Danish People's Party today on this bill. It is, of course, totally unacceptable that you roam around these big muscle cars and spread fear and sometimes have the fatal consequences. So, of course, we need to contain this, and this is actually a very good example of the fact that the parties of the Danish Parliament have worked very well with the industry in order to find exactly the balance that Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær is also talking about. Secondly, we are also very pleased to be able to stem fraud in the trade of second-hand cars. So, all in all, a very good proposal that we warmly support.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030120000	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030120008	Thank you. I'll be brief. SF is for this proposal. In the SF, we believe that it is sensible to make the same requirements for car owners to access financial information through leasing companies as if they had to borrow money for an occasion. We also see the need to tighten up the rules so that gang members can be prevented from getting hold of an otherwise confiscated car by releasing a strawman to lease the car. If the proposed system of eSkatData cannot be abused by the leasing companies, we see no problem. The second part of the proposal is part of the agreement we have jointly drawn up to strengthen control and thus reduce the risk of fraud, and this part also supports the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030120051	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party. There are also no brief comments to be made to this rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Rune Lund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030120101	Thank you. This bill consists of a large number of things in terms of clarifications and tightenings and adjustments, both in relation to driving madness, but also in relation to the leasing area, and we support that. We are also in favour of the draft law as a whole. The fourth element, however, is that we shall be asking a little more questions. It is about tax exemptions for vehicles used for the commercial transport of blood and organs. The aim of the bill is to align the transport of blood and organs within and outside a body in a fiscal context and at the same time to make more appropriate use of resources, since in future blood and organs will not necessarily be transported using an ambulance. We are going to ask a few questions about this, because what is important to us is that this is not going to be a kind of wild west where it is poorly trained and perhaps in some cases even underpaid drivers who will be riding with organs. So how in practice you imagine this is going to happen, we are going to ask a few questions, but we are, as I said, positive about the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030120211	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and I can therefore welcome the next rapporteur. This is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. It's sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030120223	We can also support the bill, which is, of course, an agreement that we are in and which is being implemented with this bill. After all, we are as much opposed to madness carism as our neighbour and therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030120242	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are also no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens. It's sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030120256	Yes, here we are again with a lot of fine words about a fight with madness carism. This week there was a five-year-old girl and her family who must experience the most fatal consequence of it. I think I need to make it clear to everyone that it wasn't the car that killed this young girl. It was the person behind the wheel. And when a young girl gets killed in Aarhus because of driving madness, it's not because of the car you drive. Then it's because of the person who drives the car. Before this Parliament is willing to take up a fight with the failed policy in that area, in the field of aliens, all these actions are patching solutions to patch solutions. When's enough? How many of the Danes out there are going to suffer? How many five-year-old girls have to die before this Parliament wakes up and starts supporting the Danes and starts supporting New Citizens? We can start with the fact that, of course, criminal foreigners must be deported consistently and after the first sentence. We can stop getting more people here and we can say that they have to support themselves so that we avoid all the people who run around on cash aid and drive around in expensive cars. But when you're not willing to take that fight, you have to be very careful with all the fine puppies, because they fall heavily to the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030120506	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. All the rapporteurs have taken the floor and I can give the floor to the Minister for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030120520	Thank you for that, President. Thank you very much for the positive reception of the bill. This is a serious matter, and the Danes' security is a key priority for the government. This is also true when it comes to traffic. Crazy carism is a really serious problem. We see it too often, and it has disastrous consequences. Unfortunately, there are too many people who do not travel in traffic as they should, and this has great and serious consequences, as I have said. There are too many examples of this. We see ruthlessness, madness, which unfortunately puts too many innocent people's lives and ability at risk. There have been tragic accidents, including recent deaths. What we see is in the true sense of the word madness. That's why this is very serious. What we see is quite unacceptable, and that is what the government, with the plan we have played out with the Vanvid driving, must stop, as it is called "supposed." That is why we have launched the initiative in which, through several initiatives in several ministerial areas, we will try to put an end to the ruthless behaviour that we see taking place on our streets. We have also found that there are problems with possible fraud in the area of imports of second-hand cars. That is why, as has also been done, we want to strengthen control, so that compliance with the rules is improved here too, so that we ensure that everyone responds to each of them and contributes to the Treasury, which, of course, helps to finance our common welfare. The bill translates into parts of the government's proposal, which, as I said, is called Vanvid's driving to be stopped. There are many examples that leased cars have been involved in driving madness, and as part of the overall effort towards driving madness, the government proposes that leasing companies be given better opportunity to check their customers' finances before a lease agreement is concluded. This must help to prevent leasing agreements from being concluded with strawmen who pass on the keys, which we have unfortunately seen, to crazy drivers. We therefore propose to give a broad range of leasing companies access to what is called eSkatData. With eSkatData, leasing companies can obtain a number of necessary information from the Tax Administration on a citizen's financial situation before the lease is concluded. The transmission of the information has been a central issue in the debate on the proposal, and the disclosure of information from the tax administration must therefore only take place when the citizen agrees. Leasing companies' access to eSkatData must be seen in the context of the proposed law also proposing an obligation for leasing companies to make an assessment of the citizen's ability to pay. I am delighted that with this proposal we can respond to a wish from the leasing industry and that together with the industry, we share a shared desire to strengthen the drive towards madness. In addition, the draft law also translates parts of an agreement that we made in the spring, namely agreement to strengthen the engine area. There we had a broad circle of parties behind it with the aim of strengthening control in the motor sector, as I said. The parties behind the agreement, which was therefore concluded there before the summer recess, agree that a number of initiatives are needed to curb possible cheating with the payment of registration fees for imported second-hand vehicles. It is therefore also a multi-faceted strategy in this area, whether it will be proposed, on the legislative side, to introduce a four-week time limit for customs supervision in connection with the import of second-hand vehicles. This means that the customs inspection must be carried out at least 4 weeks before the request for value determination of the vehicle. As the rules are today, when assessing the maintenance condition of the vehicle, customs supervision may have been carried out up to 12 months before the value is established, and this cannot be done. The new time limit shall increase the certainty that it is the actual state of the vehicle at the time of valuation that is taken into account when the vehicle is to be taxed. With the political agreement, it was also decided to tighten the rules in the leasing sector, where it is proposed to introduce a 7-day deadline from the application for value loss calculation of a second-hand leasing vehicle. This gives the Danish Motor Authority better opportunities to check that the correct fee is paid for the leasing vehicle. It is also proposed that traders selling second-hand vehicles should report tender and sales prices to the Board. This will allow the Motors Board and industry to value used vehicles more easily and correctly, because the information will be included in the construction of a semi-automatic value-setting system, which is also made available to the industry. In addition, as has also been suggested, a number of minor adaptations and simplifications of the legislation in the field of motor vehicles are proposed, which, overall, should help to strengthen control in this area and which is therefore fully in line with the agreement we reached in the spring. Let me conclude by thanking you for the debate on the proposal and for your support for the proposal. It is an extremely important subject that we are discussing here today. We must stand together, shoulder to shoulder, to ensure that we do what we can to stop the madness that unfortunately some too often practice on our roads. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030121143	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030121211	The debate is open and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party. It's Mrs. Birgitte Wind. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030121221	Thank you for the floor, President. We have here a bill with various elements within the CPR law. First of all, with this bill, we are responding to the desire from the Faroe Islands that the Faroes can have access to the Danish CPR number. This means that forefathers, among other things. easier access to public Danish digital self-service solutions such as: NemID. At the same time, a clear legal basis is provided in the CPR Act for the transmission of information from the CPR to Faroese authorities, which has been a request of the Faroese social administration. We also amend the rules of the CPR Act to ensure that the special party consultation procedure also applies in cases where a child's address is moved to a shelter. This will mean that the address will not be given to the non-inflation parent during the treatment of the notified movement. Similarly, the bill will ensure that, when registering special address protection, general name and address protection is always registered, thereby registering particularly threatened groups of persons after written notification by the police to the municipality as being without permanent residence in the CPR. Finally, we are following up a broad political agreement, which responds to a desire to allow the general housing sector and certain private landlords to receive on request information from the CPR on movements to and from housing owned by the general housing organisation or private landlord. From the point of view of the Social Democrats, it is good to have the cpr law updated in these areas with the wishes of among others. The Faroe Islands and the general housing companies. The Social Democratic Party supports the proposal, but I also have a greeting from Sjúrður Skaale from Javnaðarflokkurin. He's been working on this for years. Unfortunately, he could not be in the Chamber today, but I should like to say that he also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030121421	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Anni Matthiesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030121430	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for the floor. And yes, the main reason why we are gathered on this bill in this Chamber today is that you have had a desire on the part of the Faroe Islands to be able to get a Danish CPR number and do it through the Rigsombudsmanden in this way. It will be much easier now for the Faroese people, because they will have easier access to, among others. public Danish digital self-service solutions, and this is a wish that has not been overcome overnight, you can say, but actually something that you have been working on for a long time. That's why I'm glad to be able to bring a greeting from Edmund Joensen today. Unfortunately, he did not have the opportunity to be in the Chamber today either, but of course he also supports this bill, for which he has also helped to work. At first sight one can say that this may seem like a small thing to deal with here in Parliament today, but nevertheless it is actually a huge step towards a good couple race between Denmark and the Faroe Islands and thus the Danish Kingdom Community. So all in all, as the previous rapporteur also mentioned, it is a proposal that provides some relief for many convicts, and therefore, of course, the Left can also support this bill and support it. At the same time, I have promised to send a greeting from the Conservatives and to say that they also support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030121605	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030121612	Thank you. It was actually my colleague, Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, who was supposed to be the rapporteur on this, but at 1 p.m. 12, 15 minutes ago, there was to be the launch of an agreement on the research reserve, and he wanted to be there, so I have promised to read his speech. So I'm not right down in the matter of the bill, but if there's any question, I'll try to answer it to the best of my ability. But Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl's speech, which I am reading now, is this: This law is about the allocation of cpr numbers and their registration. There are three main elements of the bill: the CPR number for cousins, the provision of information on the relocation of general housing organisations and the rules for dealing with cases of residence registration of children in cases of special address protection. The first element on the allocation of CPR numbers to cousins meets a desire from cousins for more general access to a Danish CPR number, so that you can use public digital self-service solutions. At the same time, the law allows for the transmission of information from the CPR to Faroese authorities. It is a voluntary scheme, which means that, when asked to the Kingdom Ombudsman in the Faroe Islands, the person number can be assigned. In the Danish People's Party we see it as a natural part of the Kingdom community, and it meets the desire to give the opportunity that the Faroese can get CPR numbers when they want it. The second element of the law is to provide general housing organisations and certain private rental companies with continuous digital access to see who moves out and into their apartments. It is the execution of an agreement between a number of parties, of which the Danish People's Party is a part, so we support it. It seems only fair that as a landlord you have an opportunity to easily follow who officially lives in apartments you rent out. It is information that is already available today, but now you can get it automatically, and that is the positive thing. The third element of the law is the amendment of the consultation of the parties, i.e. the procedure for notifying the transfer of a child to a shelter. The intention is to ensure the secrecy of the child's address for any violent partner to the parent who has moved with the child to a shelter. It is obvious that we must do what we can to ensure the safety of children in such a situation. It must also be said, however, that the bill says that it will mean that there will be situations where there will be no violence or threats in the relationship and where the child's address will also be hidden. It is therefore important that in committee we have clarity about legal certainty for both parents in such situations. DF is, as a starting point, positive towards that part of the bill, but we need to clarify legal certainty before taking a final position. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030121843	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Kathrine Oldag.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030121850	Thank you very much, President. After all, this is not a bill that creates the big debate. After all, it is difficult to disagree with the wish to grant the Faroese a wish to have a Danish social security number if they need it and thus have access to Danish digital public solutions. As far as we are concerned, this is part of an extension of the digitalisation of public Denmark and thus an entirely natural step, also towards the Faroe Islands being allowed to join the club, so to speak. In the hearings I have noticed that there are some questions about what to say about the personal data issues that may be in, who exactly is to be handed over the different data to, i.e. the personal data. However, it is also my impression that the Ministry has already taken into account many of the concerns expressed in the consultation responses in the drafting of the bill. There's gonna be nodded over at the lodge and from the ministerial chair, so I'll take that for good goods. That is why we in the Radical Left, of course, support this small bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030122002	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Radical Left. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030122012	Thank you for that, President. In SF, we recognise the part of the proposal that is about the Kingdom Ombudsman in the Faroe Islands being able to grant Danish citizenship, who is resident in the Faroe Islands, a Danish social security number. This gives the Faroese authorities easier access to public Danish digital self-service solutions, while at the same time giving the Faroese authorities better opportunities to use information from the CPR in their procedures. We can only back that up. The next part deals with better name and address protection for children in shelters and other threatened groups of people, and we of course also support that. The last part of the bill is the implementation of an agreement we have concluded with the government and a wide range of parliamentary parties. It concerns a new model for the transmission of information from the CPR on relocations in the general housing sector and parts of the private rental sector in order to address housing social challenges. After all, it has been a desire on the part of the housing organizations to gain a better insight into who really lives in their homes. We think that is only a reasonable requirement, and that is why we are in favour of this proposal. In the further work of the committee, we will also have to pay a little attention to looking at the framework for this, because none of this information must, of course, be misused in any way. But so far we think that has been well covered. So on the basis of these considerations, the SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030122145	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030122157	I say thank you. On behalf of Mrs Eva Flyvholm, I would like to express the views of Enhedslisten on this. In principle, we can support the proposal. There are three elements in it which, by the way, have nothing to do with each other. We don't like that very much. But first of all, it is positive that the Faroe Islands have better access to the Danish CPR number. We like that. Secondly, it is also important that we ensure better protection for children, for example. must move to a shelter with a parent because of violence, so that the violent parent is not immediately informed of where they are. On the third point, we have a concern about extending access to public data for private landlords. In fact, we think it would be sensible to use the proposal from Danske Ljerne for a special authorisation. We shall deal with this in the committee procedure. Finally, we would like to mention that on the Enhedslisten side we are deeply concerned that the cpr number as identification is hammering uncertainly and that there is a high risk of data security breaches and identity theft. That is why we have repeatedly called for a review of the system and we believe that it is urgent. It would have been nice if such elements had also been included.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030122315	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten. There are no brief comments to the rapporteur, and since the Conservative People's Party has already welcomed it, the next rapporteur in the rapporteur is the rapporteur from New Citizens' Party, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030122340	A lot has been said about this bill from up here, so I really don't have to say much more about it. Of course, we support this with the fact that convicts can get this in connection with the CPR number. We also think that this seems to make sense in the immediate area of crisis centres. We have suffered the same concern that the Danish People's Party raised with regard to legal certainty.Of course, we must ensure this and actually also with regard to housing. We have a number of questions which we will, of course, ask and get answered in committee but, as a starting point, we are also in favour of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030122417	Thank you to the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. All the rapporteurs who wanted to speak have been given the floor, and so it is the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030122431	Thank you for that, President, and also thank all the rapporteurs here. You must greet those of whom some of you were here on behalf and say that I acknowledge receipt of the proposal and the very constructive and effective debate we have had on it in this Chamber today. I am pleased that the bill meets the Faroe Islands' wish to be able to assign a Danish social security number. This means that we are closing another border barrier within the Kingdom community. I am also pleased that with the bill we are implementing the agreement reached by a broad circle in the Folketing on a new model for the transmission of information from the CPR to the non-profit housing sector in particular. It is now easier to get an overview of who lives in the homes. Furthermore, with the bill, we are helping to ensure that parents who are forced to go to the shelter with their children are safe. We also improve the safety of those who are so threatened that they have been given special address protection in the CPR. I welcome both of them and also heard broad support for them. I am, of course, available to answer questions and have noted that it may be good for us to clarify some of the things that are in relation to personal data and so on in committee. Let's do it. Similarly, should there be a need to clarify something in relation to legal certainty for the parent who does not go to the crisis centre, let us finally clarify this in committee. But on the whole, it was a very distinguished receipt of the bill. I'd like to sign for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030122601	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030122634	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030122645	Thank you. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that it must of course have consequences if, for example, you go to Syria to fight for the Islamic State or other Islamist terrorist groups whose crimes against humanity are enormous. In short, we do not want terrorists to go to Denmark. Therefore, in October of last year, we adopted an emergency law that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration may administratively deprive, for example, the Danish nationality of IS warriors and other persons of a course of action which seriously harms Denmark's vital interests, provided that they have dual citizenship or that they can otherwise avoid their becoming stateless. At the first reading of the emergency law last year, some parties expressed concerns about the lack of legal certainty. Of course, people who have been deprived of their nationality administratively have the opportunity to have it tried in the courts and, of course, a court-appointed lawyer will also be made available. In other words, legal certainty has been taken care of. In fact, Denmark has the world's best legal guarantees. In 2020, we are once again at first place in the World Justice Project's so-called Rule of Law Index. Denmark is no. 1 among 128 countries when it comes to legal certainty. The emergency law of last year has not changed that. There is therefore no need to be concerned about the lack of legal certainty in relation to the emergency law. Last year's law of haste also contains a sunset clause. That is why we are standing here today, because with this bill we propose to lift the sunset clause. Since we adopted the emergency law last autumn, decisions have been taken on the administrative withdrawal of Danish citizenship in eight cases relating to persons staying abroad. Three of these cases have been brought before the courts, and none of the eight have since come to Denmark. So last year's law of haste must be said to work as intended. Therefore, we would like to lift the sunset clause so that, even after 1 July 2021, it will also be possible for us to deprive a person of Danish citizenship administratively, provided he has fought for Islamic State or other Islamist groupings in Syria, or has otherwise shown a course of action which is seriously detrimental to Denmark's vital interests. As a member of the Folketing, I am proud of the emergency law that we voted last year, because it is an example of a responsible parliament acting when people's security and security are threatened. In such cases, we must never hesitate. I shall conclude by saying that the Social Democrats support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030122903	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments and the first is to Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030122911	Thank you so much. In New Citizens, of course, we support removing the sunset clause in this law. I would really like to hear from the Socialist rapporteur whether the rapporteur also thinks that this should apply to everyone, whether they have dual citizenship or not. So, does the rapporteur really believe that we owe anything to these IS terrorists, or does the rapporteur think, as we do in New Citizens, that the security and security of the Danes must always be higher than obsolete conventions? I would like to hear the rapporteur's response to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030122942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030122943	I therefore agree with much of what the questioner says, but there are examples of people who have no other citizenship than the Danish one. Then we can always discuss whether they should ever have had it, but there are some conventions that we have signed and which also protect Danes who may be in a difficult situation. But we have to do everything we can to get rid of these people, no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123001	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123003	Thank you for your answer. In New Citizens, we don't really care if these IS terrorists become stateless. They have chosen Denmark from, and now we have to choose them from. So I would really like to ask the rapporteur again whether the rapporteur will support the amendment tabled by the New Citizens' Party to this bill that, regardless of whether you have dual citizenship or not, you should, of course, be deprived of Danish citizenship when you join the IS black flag.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123031	For me, it's not just about the IS there are other Islamic factions as well. I therefore agree that it should be possible to lose it, but we must also have a place to send these people, and unfortunately some countries still do not accept their own citizens. Now I do not know the specific proposal, but when it comes to people who do not have another place to go, we are faced with a problem in relation to some conventions which must be remembered also protect Danes who are in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123055	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123058	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. The rapporteur himself mentioned that eight cases had been raised, three of which have led to judicial review, which is still under way, and I assume that the rapporteur agrees that it is a rather unusual construction that we are doing here, where it is an authorisation given to the Minister and then there may be an opportunity to appeal against that decision to the courts. After all, the sunset clause actually applied until 1 June, and will the rapporteur not think that it is very sensible to wait for the outcome of the three cases that are running so that we can see, as it were, what the legal consequence of the legislation we have introduced is? Right now there are three cases that we do not know how to resolve, but we are already removing the sunset clause and perpetuating this legislation. Would it not be sensible to wait for the outcome of the three cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123151	No. We think this law has had an effect, and it's too serious to wait. We are happy to see that some have not returned to Denmark. Well, it's a technical discussion, because no matter what, Enhedslisten is against this law, I guess.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123205	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123207	After all, the rule of law is never merely a technical discussion. It is also about how we perceive the rule of law. I also believe that later in the debate we will have to deal with the issue of whether or not it is a fair punishment for the crimes that these people are suspected of having committed, to deprive them of citizenship. But on the basis of the fact that it is a new construction, could it not be reasonable, on the basis of a rule of law, to wait for a verdict to see whether the construction that has been made here is also valid in relation to the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123242	Yes, but I still think it's a rather strange discussion, because Enhedslisten doesn't think anyone should lose their citizenship in Denmark. Pretty much everyone has to have it, so I know Mr. Knox too. Peder Hvelplund from the Committee on the Rights of the Child, and that's the way it is. So no matter what, the Enhedslisten attaches itself to it. We live up to legal certainty, you get a lawyer on, and then it has to be up to the courts to decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123302	The next brief remark is to Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123307	The last time we dealt with this bill, or rather the bill in which we now have to negotiate whether to remove the sunset clause, Dansk Folkeparti tabled an amendment that the possibility of depriving foreign fighters of their nationality should apply administratively to all foreign fighters and not only the very small part which has dual nationality. Now, on the previous question, I understand that the Social Democratic Party has already taken a position on this one will not support it. But what is the reason why we are standing and saying that we want to ensure that terrorists do not have a place in Denmark and so on, since in reality this is only a very small fraction of the total number of foreign fighters that the Social Democrats want to address? Because there are many more people who do not have dual citizenship. So you don't want to do anything about them. They will only be accepted with open arms in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123412	You don't accept them with open arms. People are being punished. There have also been cases where it has had consequences for people. But you have to have some citizenship. It is quite difficult to send people to countries that do not accept them, i.e. if people do not have a different citizenship. I think that is a problem we have encountered many times. And then the discussion about what kind of conventions we should be part of or not part of will come.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123432	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123434	I just think that, when dealing with this, it is fair to say that it is only a very, very small part that has been allowed to be dealt with by the UN's stateless convention and that we want to protect the Danes from it. You do not want to protect the Danes from terrorists, you want to protect them from the very, very small part from which the UN's stateless convention allows you to protect yourself. It is hypocritical in some way. So, of course, we should say: we want to protect the Danes from terrorists finished!
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123506	So do we, and this government is doing everything possible to protect the Danes, and those who have Danish citizenship and who do not have another are, of course, brought to justice for their crimes. But it is no secret that we look at our international obligations differently from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123520	The next brief remark is to Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123525	Thank you very much. I am very pleased that the Social Democrats support the idea that Syrians and other extremists should be able to have their Danish citizenship withdrawn. But it was something easier if they didn't get citizenship at all in the first place. There we have Conservatives, after all, a whole series of very good suggestions for tightening up, so that these people and other people who should not have Danish citizenship do not get it. One of the simplest and simplest is that if you are a criminal foreigner, you have a prison sentence, you should never be able to get a Danish passport. Does the rapporteur back this up?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123559	Well, now it's a debate about Syrians, so we have to look at that and have a dialogue about it. That does not change the fact that I think we are very much in line with the Conservatives when it comes to having a consequence in relation to the fact that you cannot have a Danish citizenship when you have committed crime. I can say on my own account that we have rejected virtually all cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123617	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123619	But these two things are very closely connected. In relation to whether we should deprive people of citizenship or whether they should not have it at all, I think we can agree that the first is something easier. That is why we Conservatives want us to have negotiations on the right to Danish citizenship as soon as possible. We have been pushing for that for a very long time. Can the rapporteur shed some light on when we will get these negotiations going? I know the Minister has suggested that it should be within this calendar year, but we are still waiting anxiously.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123647	Then it is good that the Minister will be here in a moment and hopefully he will be able to answer the question of when. After all, it is the Minister who is calling for these negotiations. But I would say that I think we are very much in line, both with the Left and Conservatives, when it comes to the need for a consequence when you commit crime, and that is that you cannot obtain Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123703	The next brief remark is to Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123707	Thank you very much. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Peder Hvelplund asked a real question, namely whether you should not wait to change the law until you have seen the verdict of these court cases that are under way. In the usual way, the rapporteur simply intimidates the Enhedslisten and speaks out in contempt of their policy. Could the rapporteur not imagine answering the question? I mean, shouldn't you just wait to change the law until you see these court decisions?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123736	I answered the question. And then I said afterwards that it doesn't change anything for the Enhedslisten. And that doesn't change anything for the alternative either. That's not what this is about. It's all rhetoric. So, if we come to the conclusion that everyone is deprived of their citizenship, is it the case that the Alternative and Enhedslisten will vote in favour of the bill? I find that hard to imagine.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123753	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123755	However, does the rapporteur not have an approach to political arguments at all, now that the issues are completely real? Shouldn't you wait until you see the decision on those cases before you change the law? Well, that's a real question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123808	But I also answered. I cannot help it if the questioner did not listen. I'm just saying, it doesn't change anything for these parties. For us, the safety of the Danes is more important than winning. You get a lawyer appointed, and then you have to see what happens. This is way too serious for a chat about how it's gonna come off. That does not change anything for the Alternative and Enhedslisten, and both parties know that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123830	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030123852	Thank you, Mr President. It is not because the Left has been given a new rapporteur. That's because Morten Dahlin is prevented from being here today. I'll do it as well as possible as compensation. When we discussed this proposal for the first time in the last session, the Left wholeheartedly supported it. We did so not only because the bill came from a political agreement that we ourselves stood for, but also because it was an important legislative proposal aimed at protecting Denmark and the Danes from foreign warriors. Today, about a year later, we can see that the law has worked as intended. We now know that as many as eight foreign fighters with dual nationality have been deprived of their Danish passports. It is eight foreign warriors who now no longer have the opportunity to return to Denmark. We in the Left think this is unequivocally positive. Because when we make it harder for foreign fighters to return to Denmark from distant and hostile regions, not only do we make Denmark safer; we also send a clear signal that we have first chosen Islamic State and corresponding terrorist gangs, yes, then we have also chosen Denmark from. We have simply turned our backs on Denmark. This, of course, also means that we have lost the privilege of being able to call ourselves a Danish citizen. That is why we in the Left, no doubt, will call the law a success. Then why are we standing here today? Yes, we do, because, although the law has worked as intended, it was adopted in circumstances that were far from optimal. The law was dealt with as a matter of urgency last year. It backed the Left because at that time there was an assessment that said that we should have the law in place as soon as possible, so that none of the foreign warriors reached Denmark's borders while we stood and discussed here in the Assembly Hall. However, we also made it clear that we have the fundamental view that, when a legislative proposal is dealt with urgently, it is a good idea to introduce a sunset clause. Fortunately, that happened here too. And I would like to stress that it was not because the Left was against the bill; we just meant that all legislation should be subjected to the ordinary legislative process with consultation deadlines and time for reflection and political discussions. That's the proper thing to do. So to sum up: Basically, the law on administrative disqualification is a success that helps keep Denmark and the Danes safe. We in the Left have no sympathy for the foreign warriors and believe that we should do what we can to keep them away from Denmark. That is why, of course, we support the bill. And I must say that the Liberal Alliance, which cannot be present in the Chamber, also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030124225	Thank you to the rapporteur. It's noted. And then there is a request for brief comments to the rapporteur, first from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030124232	Thank you so much. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the Left could not now hear the rapporteur talking about this, because these IS terrorists have turned their backs on Denmark and that we should now opt out of them; I can only agree with the rapporteur on that; I can only support an amendment now tabled by the New Citizens' Party to this bill, so as to ensure that no one can the Left back on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030124309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030124311	Thank you for the question. No, the Left cannot support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030124318	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030124320	That was a clear speech. I note that the Left once again places obsolete conventions above the Danes' safety and security. It's a shame, it's boring, and it's sad for Denmark and for the Danes. But thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030124338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030124340	Thank you. In fact, we believe that with this bill we have secured both. It is actually possible both to comply with international conventions and to ensure the safety of the Danes. And that's what we're gonna do with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030124359	Then there is a request for a brief comment on Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030124403	Thank you. After all, we have read some consultation responses to this bill, and the Council of Lawyers points out in their hearing that before the sunset clause is lifted, the content of the law should be considered in depth, given that this is no longer an urgent situation. What does the rapporteur of the Left think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030124420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030124423	I am also thinking in the light of what has happened recently that we are still away under pressure with these things that require us to act quickly, and that must be the case. I also think that we have legal certainty in the way we act in Denmark, and I do not think that we compromise on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030124446	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030124448	In relation to the question which the Socialist rapporteur failed to answer, I would like to ask what the Left is thinking, given that it might have been an idea to wait until decisions had been taken in the cases in progress in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030124502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030124504	I think we can just see that it would have been necessary to make a quick effort in this area to ensure the safety of the Danes. The fact that there are eight cases is clear proof of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030124520	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030124524	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur for the speech and thank you for taking the job as a temp down here. I just want to make a more general point about how we punish. One can say that it is some people who are suspected of some rather serious crimes... it may be war crimes or crimes against humanity... so it is reasonable, according to the legal view of the Left, that the only punishment they get for it is to deprive them of citizenship? Should they not be tried, judged and punished afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030124557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030124559	We are very confident that the Danish system and this legislation work as intended. Our purpose in this is to ensure the safety of the Danes, so we are very satisfied with this legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030124613	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030124615	I am just thinking that the best way to ensure security, not just for the Danes, but for the citizens in general, is that if there are people who commit crimes, they will be tried, punished and subsequently imprisoned. This will not be the case with what we are seeing here: there are people who are suspected of having committed serious crimes, and who are Danish citizens, to whom we have some sort of obligation, but we just let them go; we take them away from citizenship and say that they can then go around and do as they usually do.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030124642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030124644	There is, of course, a fundamental difference between what Enhedslisten thinks and what the Left believes. And in this context, the Left believes that it is good legislation that ensures the safety of the Danes, and we have proof of what has happened over the last year. Of course, it is also always a question of looking at legal certainty, and we also think that legal certainty is guaranteed by this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030124706	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030124717	Thank you for the floor. We welcome the fact that, with this bill, the government wants to remove the sunset clause on administrative deprivation of citizenship of foreign warriors. We think this is a sensible attempt to defend Danes against foreign fighters who, by fighting for a hostile organisation, have committed some kind of treason and are therefore also dangerous to us who live in this country. So, of course, we think it is important for this law to come through, but we just have to say that it is not enough. Something's missing. It is only a small proportion of the foreign warriors who have dual citizenship and the large proportion who have single citizenship is not dealt with. There is no possibility of depriving them of their citizenship or of the possibility of coming to Denmark. That is why we find it hypocritical to say, as I pointed out earlier, when the Social Democrat rapporteur was in the Chair, that we should ensure the Danes' security towards foreign fighters, when we really only aim at a very small proportion of the foreign fighters who unfortunately exist and who may return to Denmark. That is why, like last year, when we dealt with the draft law urgently, we want to table an amendment to the effect that it should apply to all foreign fighters and not just to those with dual nationality. This is the one place where I believe that social democracy does not do enough to secure the Danes against terrorists. But there are also many other places in the law of citizenship where we are sorry that the government does not do any more. Because at the same time as they say that you have a very strict foreign policy and that you will try to secure the Danes against terrorism and crimes committed by foreigners or crimes that may arise in the stream of slippage on too weak a policy of aliens, you are relaxing foreign policy. You make it easier for people to stay in this country and you do not make the restrictions that you should clearly do, for example. in the area of citizenship, which we are talking about today, where, thank God, five people have been taken from the next draft law on citizenship, but only for two and three years. Well, when people are designated as dangerous by PET, they're taken off this time, and yes, it's really good, but then only so that they can be put back on in 2 or 3 years. It is a bit the same with the current legislation that we are dealing with today, so that you make it look as though it is very tight and you really defend the Danes, but it is just very little you do. We therefore believe that much more needs to be done. This is only a small step, and it is a small step that we would like to improve with the amendment I referred to. Of course we support it, but we also expect more to come and we want more to come. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030125053	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030125058	Thank you. In fact, I just want to hear something from Mrs Krarup when it comes to protecting Danish citizens: is there proportionality in that punishment when it comes to people who are suspected of quite serious crimes? Well, it may be acts of terrorism for which they are suspected; it may be crimes against humanity or war crimes. Is there proportionality in the punishment if the punishment they then receive is that we deprive them of citizenship? In other words, how does the Danish citizen's safety protect him? Because they may, of course, be subjected to an act of terrorism abroad by exactly the same citizen. Was it not more reasonable to ensure that these citizens were prosecuted and imprisoned?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030125142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030125144	But it is not necessarily a punishment to be deprived of citizenship. Well, it would be really nice if foreign fighters were punished in other countries, being locked up for life; I really, really liked that. But I see no reason why they should go to Denmark and have that punishment. I see that they have judged themselves out of Denmark, and their future fate may well lie where they have wanted to fight.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030125222	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030125225	But that means that if there is a Danish citizen who, let us say in Syria, has committed war crimes or terrorist acts and has been detained down there and then has ended up in, for example. Turkey, then, does Mrs Marie Krarup have more faith in the Turkish judicial system being able to imprison and punish the crimes committed than Mrs Marie Krarup has in the Danish legal system? Because we would have the opportunity with a Danish citizen to bring the Danish citizen home and have him brought to justice at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030125301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030125303	But I do not really think that the Enhedslisten here shows understanding for what is our task as politicians. After all, it is not my job to improve the Turkish legal system or to improve security in Turkey. It cannot be done; for that I cannot really make any difference. But I can actually make a difference to the Danes, and that is actually what I am elected to do. There I have a commitment, and there I shall do what I can. And there it is my job to support this bill and ask it to be extended to people with only one citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030125338	Thank you to the rapporteur. It is also my job to say that there are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur and to welcome the next rapporteur from the Radical Left. And this is Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030125350	Thank you. The Radical Left is opposed to this bill and I am sorry that the government is not dealing with it more thoroughly. This law was passed quickly, and then it was argued that we should have a sunset clause so that we should evaluate and discuss it again. I do not know what has changed since the government does not think that we should evaluate and discuss it, but just lift the sunset clause. After all, we agree that foreign fighters must have taken away Danish citizenship. We also agree that matters should not just be dragged away by staying away. And we also agree that we do not want the foreign warriors back to Denmark. But why should there not be judicial review? I would like to ask the government that, and indeed I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left, because now he said that the Left sees no legal problems in that there is no judicial remedy. Listen: For half the people this is about, there is no justice, and I think it's because they've got a message in e-Boks that they haven't discovered. So, quite frankly, I would say to the Left, the Danish Liberal Party: does it not give a legal problem? We could, of course, do automatic judicial review, and we could at least wait for the cases before the courts to be settled. I would therefore like to ask the Minister two specific questions. First of all, why is the government making this law now? Why isn't the government waiting for matters to be settled? Secondly, why do we not actually do automatic justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030125550	Thank you to the rapporteur. A good idea is to ask the parties' rapporteurs questions when they are on the floor as rapporteurs, since the rapporteur of the Left has no opportunity to reply for the time he has, of course, the Minister will have to go on later. Now and here there is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030125611	Thank you very much. It is not a secret that the policy of foreigners of the Conservatives may be very far removed from the radical Left, but this is a bill that will deprive Syrians and other extremists of Danish citizenship, and then the Radical Left is on account of the technical provisions, or what should I call it? I mean, this bill will ensure that Syrian warriors with dual citizenship can have their Danish citizenship withdrawn. How can the Radical Left stand there on the platform and say no to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030125644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030125645	No, that's actually not what this bill does. There is an opportunity to deprive foreign fighters of their Danish citizenship, and so must there be. But this bill is about not rethinking whether there can be judicial review. And I think it is quite thought-provoking if Conservatives are there, where it is not important and a completely fundamental principle of law in Denmark that there is at least judicial review.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030125717	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030125718	Well, I just want to comment on the fact that I see this as a leash on the part of Radicals, because if you really cared that people who go to Syria and fight against Denmark must have their citizenship removed, then you would of course vote for this. It's not some small faction here in the Folketing that means this. There is, of course, a broad majority, including the Social Democratic Party; in other words, three-quarters of the Folketing are in favour of this, and yet Radicals will not be in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030125747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030125749	The Radical Left is in favour of us taking citizenship from foreign fighters. What this bill is about is that we should have had a discussion about whether we could do it in a way where there was also judicial review, because it is a completely fundamental principle of our legal society. And I don't think it's a leg buckle. On the contrary, I think that this is a completely fundamental right in our society, and I am quite sorry that Conservatives do not see it in the same way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030125820	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no more questions for the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the SF, and that is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen. It is someone else who is on the list, but hopefully we will have time to change it on the board. But welcome to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030125842	Thank you. I'm sorry for the confusion. We've discussed this before. And when we had the debate in the autumn, we voted on the SF side yellow. We understand and support the principles underlying this, because these are some terrible people that we are trying to give the consistency that is required for the actions they have carried out. But also at that time, and I would like to say this again, we called, like the Radicals, for more legal certainty, of such a fundamental nature. What is missing from this and missing back then is justice. We didn't get that back then. Now you are setting up to lift this sunset clause, and I have to say that we cannot support the SF. We cannot support this proposal as long as it is as it is doing here and there is no necessary legal certainty incorporated into it. And that is not because we do not understand the basis and principles of it, because we do. But now, for example, the government has... a draft law on later, which relates to gang crime and where it is certainly not administrative, but where it is precisely in connection with a judgment that you can deprive a possible citizenship. I would have liked to see the same levels of legal certainty in this. So, unfortunately, I cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030130019	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030130024	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I would actually just like some of the things I've asked the previous rapporteurs about the proportionality thing. How is it reasonable that the punishment we give on the part of the Danish state to people suspected of having committed very, very serious crimes, in other words war crimes and crimes against humanity, when they are Danish citizens, is to deprive them of citizenship? So, do we not have an international obligation that, when it is Danish citizens who commit or are suspected of committing such crimes, we ensure that they also receive a proportional penalty and, of course, also a fair trial, but if the suspicion turns out to hold that they are then punished subsequently? Because we're gonna lose that opportunity with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030130108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030130110	I think the most important thing in this is legal certainty. I think that the punishment is proportional in that we are talking about double citizenship situations. And, as I said earlier, we are in favour of the principles of it, but we still have to stick to the legal framework that I think is lacking in this. That is the main concern for us. But, in my view, we are dealing with something which is extremely violent and which I cannot in any way defend, and which I assume the rapporteur cannot defend. I would be surprised at anything else at least. So I actually understand the intention and principles of it, I just keep a foot on the ground at the same time and say that as long as there is no trial and no legal certainty, we have difficulty in doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030130155	Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030130157	I fully agree with that about legal certainty. I just cannot understand why, if there are citizens suspected of serious crimes, they should not be prosecuted. Why do we just have to say that we take citizenship away from them, and that's it? Do we not have an international obligation to protect citizens against people who are suspected of serious crimes and also to ensure that they receive a fair punishment, instead of just saying that we are now taking citizenship away from them, and then they have to run around and make terror as they usually do? There, then, we must have an obligation to ensure that those citizens are held back and that they are punished fairly in relation to the actions they are suspected of having committed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030130233	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030130235	Yeah, and that's where I think this punishment is fair. There is also the element in what I said before that it is, after all, dual citizenship. There are others other than us who also have that obligation. In view of this and the situation we have seen over the last year and the use that has been made of the scheme, I do not think that these are situations in which this legislation is applied in a way that is not proportionate to the citizens. It's the process in it. It is the lack of legal certainty that worries us. It's not really the degree of punishment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030130313	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030130329	Thank you for that, President. It is a very short but, on the other hand, very far-reaching legislative proposal that we are discussing here today. In short, it is a question of abolishing the sunset clause which was inserted into the emergency law on administratively depriving suspected foreign fighters of their Danish nationality. There should be no doubt whatsoever that, if you are suspected of having committed serious crimes, you must be detained, the case must be investigated, you must be tried and you must have a fair trial. It is fundamental in a community governed by the rule of law. This also applies, of course, to Danish nationals who are suspected abroad of having committed serious crimes such as foreign fighters. It can be about crimes such as acts of terrorism, war crimes or crimes against humanity. There, of course, Denmark has an obligation to ensure that Danish citizens are extradited and prosecuted in Denmark, so both to ensure that they are given a fair trial, but also, of course, to ensure that if the suspicion is confirmed, it will trigger a verdict so that their atrocities do not continue. This bill makes a practice permanent, in which Denmark disclaims responsibility and only tries to take the citizenship of suspected foreign fighters administratively. It is a fundamental breach of Danish case law and with the foundations of a legal society, when the executive also becomes the judge, i.e. when the Minister is authorised to withdraw citizenship without any real judicial review. Because there is a possibility of subsequently testing the decision if the citizen abroad discovers a message in his e-Boks, reacts to it and subsequently can have a lawyer in Denmark lead the case. It is therefore also paradoxical that we should not wait for the decision on the three cases that have actually been raised and examine the reasons why citizens who have not brought proceedings have not done so. But it is also a waiver of Denmark's international responsibility, because if these citizens have really committed serious crimes, they must be prosecuted and they must subsequently be punished. Then it is not enough just to deprive them of their citizenship and then then leave them at large. In addition, there is a very special problem with the children of suspected foreign fighters. We have a special obligation to look after and protect vulnerable children. Children of suspected foreign fighters who are deprived of their citizenship also lose the opportunity to come home to Denmark and seek protection and care. It is quite unreasonable for children to be punished for the actions of their parents. Instead, they should be given a special form of protection, especially by a government that prides itself on having the Prime Minister of the children. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that this bill has so great legal, state and human law challenges that it should be withdrawn and Enhedslisten cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030130634	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030130639	Thank you. I think it's really wonderful to see how fundamentally different you can look at these situations. We Conservatives believe that if you have turned your back on Denmark, for example. If you go down to Syria and fight for a terrorist organisation against Denmark, you must of course have withdrawn your Danish citizenship if at all possible, and the Enhedslisten will not. Can the Enhedslisten even make a proposal that is horrible enough to take citizenship away from people? Or can you do whatever you want in the world, the most horrible things, and Enhedslisten will still say: Well just keep the Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030130716	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030130718	It is of course interesting to hear from a rapporteur from a law and order party who likes to argue that if you commit war crimes or crimes against humanity, the just punishment is that you are deprived of citizenship. Our view is that we should be brought to justice and we should be judged for the rather serious crimes, and that is what the Conservative rapporteur, with this bill, is helping to legitimise not to happen, because we are not going to see these people brought to justice. All we're saying is we're gonna take them away from citizenship and then they can continue to commit their crimes. I think it is a very, very strange approach to have in terms of crime and punishment, that is to say that the punishment for committing a rather serious crime is the removal of citizenship, and then you do not do any more. Of course, the natural thing would be that when the Danish state has an obligation, in that it is Danish citizens, we also ensure that these people are prosecuted if they have committed what they are suspected of and that they are subsequently punished, so that we avoid the misdeeds that are going to affect innocent people, whether they are in Denmark or abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030130819	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030130821	Now I hope that the work that is local, among other things. in areas such as Syria, will lead to many of these people being brought to justice locally and then punished, and in addition, I hope that they will also have their Danish citizenship withdrawn. But if I may just try to meet the rapporteur a little bit, can the rapporteur see that there is something preventative for the brainwashed young people who are perhaps considering going down to Syria right now, in that they know that if that is the case, then they will be deprived of their Danish citizenship or at least run a risk of it? Can the rapporteur at least agree with me that there is a preventive effect in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030130857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030130859	So, I think it is an immense amount of confidence that the rapporteur has in the Turkish legal system in terms of judging suspected criminals. I think Lars Hedegaard's assassin came from Turkey and actually escaped from down there, even though he was suspected of pretty serious crimes. So it's not a certainty. In fact, if you are as brainwashed as the rapporteur himself mentions these people as being, I do not think the worst punishment is to lose citizenship, then I think there will be a greater preventive effect in the risk of having a prison sentence for the crimes you commit.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030130937	Then it's mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030130940	Thanks for the speech. The rapporteur would like you to be punished. I think it is a punishment in itself to lose Danish citizenship. This is one of the worst things that can happen to these people if the rapporteur asks them. Let us just say that they are being punished in Denmark, as the rapporteur wishes. Could the rapporteur then imagine that something so gross could be committed that, after punishment, one could actually lose one's citizenship? Is it something that exists in the world of Enhedslisten that it can be a consequence of the things that have happened?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131010	This is already the case in the legislation today, so that citizenship can be withdrawn. I was just about to say that the rapporteur's office might be able to do so. You can have citizenship withdrawn if it is the case that you are punished in accordance with Chapter 12 or 13 of the Criminal Code, i.e. by crime against the state and terrorist acts. So that possibility already exists today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131030	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131032	I understand that it exists, but is it something that Enhedslisten supports, that is, that you can lose your citizenship? Now we're talking about what the law is like, but I'm just asking if the Enhedslisten generally believes that it's actually fair enough that you can lose your citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131045	Well, that is part of the legislation today, and that is not what we are debating here today. So that's not what's going on right now. I think that when we discuss citizenship, it is much more relevant to discuss the possibility of obtaining citizenship • why it should be so immensely difficult to obtain Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131101	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131104	No, it's not. It is not incredibly difficult to get Danish citizenship that is all too easy. But I would really like to follow up on something, because the Enhedslisten's rapporteur does not really answer the question put by the Socialist rapporteur. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur himself mentions the question of whether you are committing terrorist acts against Denmark etc., but then I just have to ask whether Enhedslisten does not think that fighting against Danish soldiers for IS terrorists, as we have seen examples of cutting people's heads off and burning children and women alive, is breaking off against Denmark, the Danish state and the Danish people?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131149	Yes, these are crimes against humanity, and that is why it must of course be punished, and that is why I am surprised that we do not want to punish the citizens who carry out such atrocities, but merely deprive them of citizenship, because that means that we also lose the opportunity to prosecute them in Denmark. I think it is quite reasonable for such people to be prosecuted and subsequently punished, because we have also seen that when Danish citizens are subjected to terrorist acts elsewhere than in Denmark they do so in Sri Lanka, they do so in Bali, it is also the IS terrorists who carry out the terrorist acts against Danish citizens, and we have an obligation to prevent this from happening, and we do know that the kind of people who commit such acts must, of course, be brought before a court, and when they are Danish citizens, the Danish State has an obligation to ensure that they are also brought before a Danish court.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131234	Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131237	The Danish Parliament has an obligation to ensure that these IS terrorists never return to Denmark once they have committed the crimes they have, and that is why they are deprived of their Danish citizenship. Does the Enhedslisten's rapporteur not agree that there are some crimes committed by these IS terrorists which mean that they will pose a great danger to the Danish people if they return to Denmark? Does the rapporteur not recognise this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131313	Yes, but what we have to do is to prevent them from committing those atrocities again, and we are not doing that by depriving them of citizenship. It is quite elementary: if people commit such crimes, we must ensure that they are imprisoned. That is the way we prevent them from committing atrocities again. If you have committed a serious crime, you must, of course, be imprisoned. You don't do that with this proposal that they say: Now we're gonna take you away from citizenship, and then you're gonna have to run around practicing terror just as you want; you're gonna have to kill Danish citizens in Bali, Sri Lanka and all sorts of other places, because we don't want to imprison you, we just want to say that you're gonna lose your Danish citizenship. That's what's absurd about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131350	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Stoklund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131353	Thank you. The rapporteur acknowledges that it may be difficult to lift a burden of proof if some of the people who have been down to beheading innocent people in the Islamic State were to succeed in coming to Denmark, and that it would be difficult to access witnesses and victims, i.e. those who now do not have a head anymore, etc. and to make such a trial slip? Does the rapporteur recognise this, and does the rapporteur also recognise that the consequence of this could be that some of these people would not be able to be judged and quite quickly walk around the streets of Copenhagen and slit other innocent people's throats? Does the rapporteur accept this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131426	At any rate, I recognise that if they are not brought before a court and subsequently convicted, we risk continuing with their atrocities, and that is what is really the consequence of this. After all, in the real world, the Kurdish self-government authorities seized a large proportion of the foreign fighters. They kept them in prison. They asked the Danish state to take them back so that they could be given a trial. They helped collect evidence, so we got the opportunity to prosecute them. This was rejected by the Danish state, and instead we saw Erdogan roll in across the border. The prisoners got out, and thus they were given the opportunity to go out and continue to make terrorist acts. There it had been more responsible for the Danish state to accept the call of the Kurdish self-government authorities and take the prisoners home and prosecute them in Denmark with the help of the Kurdish authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131511	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131513	Thank you. The rapporteur also acknowledges that the rapporteur does not know whether there had been enough burden of proof and so on. to be able to carry out such a trial at home and that the consequence of it might have been that we had had terrorists walking around the streets of Copenhagen or other Danish cities that could slit the throats of innocent people, which, fortunately, is now prevented by a broad majority in the Folketing, with the exception of the rapporteur's party?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131535	No, I don't really accept that, because these people are now guaranteeing that we will not have a trial, whether you could lift a burden of proof or not. Now you just let them go. Now the attempt is not even being made, and it has as a consequence that these people can walk around and slit the throats of Danish citizens in Sri Lanka or in Bali. That is where we have seen the consequences of this, and that is why terrorism does not isolate itself into one country. Danish citizens are primarily killed by terrorists abroad, and we are helping to legitimise this legislation here. We're not even trying to prosecute them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131607	In doing so, we thank the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and we can move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131616	Thank you, sir. President. One of the hardest tasks I've had to solve for the Danish state was back in 2014 in my last job before I joined the Danish Parliament in 2015. I worked as a Danish diplomat in Turkey, and there were sometimes young Danish, most often men, or people with Danish citizenship who had been inside Syria and doing different things. Many times, when you join the Islamic State, the first thing you do is burn your Danish passport in order to show that now you are no longer a Dane, but also because it is thus somewhat harder to get back home. When some of these young men had been down doing different things for the Islamic State and wanted to go home again, they could not go into Turkey because they had no passport, and then it is done in that way that the embassy sends a Danish diplomat down to issue an emergency passport so that you can get back to Denmark. Back in 2014 there was no consequence when you had been to Syria and done what you had now done, so that having to issue a Danish emergency passport on behalf of the Danish state to a young man who was sitting and told that he had just been to Raqqa to visit his grandmother, he said and who just sat and laughed, is one of the hardest things I had ever had to do. Fortunately, in the last period of government, when the blue parties had the power of government, we partly got it right, among other things. Knowing that now with prison sentences we can punish people who go to Syria alone to go in there. This bill also makes it possible, in some cases, to deprive people of citizenship. I think this is an excellent idea, and that is why Conservatives are supporting the removal of this sunset clause. But we only really get to grips with this problem when we make sure that these people don't get Danish citizenship at all. That is why the pressure is so hard on the Minister for when we can have negotiations on Danish citizenship. There are far too many criminals who get Danish citizenship, people who do not speak properly Danish, people who have not had a proper job, people who are not integrated. And the best thing we can do is make sure these people don't get Danish citizenship at all. We support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131824	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131830	The first political thing I did in my life was to be in here in internship with Lene Espersen in the ninth grade because I thought she was good. And as a child, I've been to conservative constitutional meetings at the Skamlingsbanken. I actually like the Conservatives quite well, which is why I just want to ask the question: what is the rule of law for the Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131857	The state of justice is the fantastic room we are today. It is democracy and it is fundamental rights. And since such a broad majority in this Parliament, as I know, is in favour of this, we have not heard all the rapporteurs, but I know that we are with all the blue parties and the Social Democrats up close to three-quarters of the elected Danish Parliament, who are in favour of this, I think it is a pity that the Radical Left, because of this, let me call it a technical question, goes in and goes against it here. So, I do not understand how one can stand here, as Mrs Lotte Rod has done, and say that one would like to take away citizenship from people who turn their backs on Denmark, but that one would not do so in practice anyway. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131935	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131939	But do you think that today it is just something technical that there is a court of law something fundamental in our community of law?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030131953	I think this bill is a really, really good bill, and I am glad it has such massive support. When you have faced the situation of having to give a Danish emergency passport to someone who has been fighting for a terrorist organisation and who will return to Denmark without any consequence, I think it is an excellent bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030132012	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030132015	Thank you very much, and thank you for a very good rapporteur's speech, which I think is very much at the forefront. I can, of course, agree with a great deal of what the rapporteur says. In new citizens, we do not believe that we should grant citizenship to people who come from a country with a Muslim majority and who are over-represented in crime statistics. But we are delighted that Conservatives also want to help tighten this up by giving Danish citizenship, because it is the finest gift. But then I have to ask the rapporteur whether this time the rapporteur will support this amendment to this bill that all the IS terrorists should be deprived of their Danish nationality, whether they become stateless or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030132058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030132100	For us, the most important thing is that these people do not get Danish citizenship at all, and that is why I spend so much time and energy over and over again asking the Minister when we can have negotiations on Danish citizenship. And with all the honour and respect for what New Citizens want, I do not think it is ambitious enough. I think New Citizens should stress that these people should not have Danish citizenship at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030132119	Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030132121	So do we. That is why we are one of the only parties to vote 'no' consistently to the six-monthly mass allocation of Danish citizenship. For we have been able to see for decades how Danish politicians have thrown around with Danish citizenship, unfortunately including the rapporteur's party. But I didn't really get an answer to my question. We are very concerned that we should not give citizenship a mass grant, but that it is quite, very few people who can get it. But what we are talking about now is to ensure that IS terrorists can have their Danish citizenship withdrawn, whether they become stateless or not. Can Conservatives back that up?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030132159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030132200	Well, as I said, when you have tried to find yourself in a situation where you give a Danish emergency pass to a man who then has to go home with no consequences, you wholeheartedly back up the very harsh penal framework that we ourselves introduced when we had the power of government. We wholeheartedly support the idea that people should be able to take away their Danish citizenship, and right now Conservatives focus on ensuring that these people do not get Danish citizenship at all. I really think it is a very good combination of three effective areas of action.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030132228	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030132230	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I just want to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that the consequence of this bill will be that a Danish citizen who is suspected of terrorist acts abroad can, in principle, just be allowed to travel around and continue its terrorist acts, because the only consequence will be that we will be deprived of that citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030132239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030132253	As I said before, when the rapporteur himself was on the platform, there is work to be done to ensure that those people who have done these acts and have been part of a terrorist organisation in a place like Syria should be convicted locally. After all, we ourselves have worked locally in relation to piracy, and I think that is a very, very good thing. But the most important thing for me is that people get the hardest possible punishment for what they have done and that, if you have Danish citizenship and we can deprive it, you do not come back to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030132325	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030132327	But there is no guarantee that he will be prosecuted or convicted. If it is a Danish citizen, we have the opportunity to take the person home to Denmark and ensure that he or she is punished in Denmark. Would it not be more reasonable that, if one is suspected of such serious crimes, one should be punished in relation to it, rather than just having citizenship withdrawn and that, moreover, we should be able to leave it to all sorts of other countries to judge? Well, we have a tradition that we want people to take their citizens home and give them a punishment if they are criminals.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030132358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030132400	I actually think, sir. Rasmus Stoklund from the Social Democratic Party described it very well. Surely we should not have people running around the Danish streets who, after they may have cut off someone's head in Syria, risk doing so in Denmark. I think it is as clear as it can possibly be that they are not going back to Denmark, and that is why we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030132416	Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030132419	Thank you. What I stumbled upon before was that the rapporteur said that it was purely technical that the Radical Left was opposed to in this, despite the fact that Mrs Lotte Rod clearly said that it is the element of absence of justice that makes the Radical Left very concerned about this. It is quite crucial how the Conservative People's Party views this in legal terms. For in recent years the Conservative People's Party has held the office of Minister of Justice on several occasions, and that is why the Conservative People's Party's position on this is very important and important. That is why I would like to ask whether the rapporteur sees it as purely technical that, if something criminal has been committed, there must be judicial review of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030132505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030132507	I am really, really happy about the years when the Conservative People's Party has held the Ministry of Justice, and some initiatives have also been taken which have been landmark in Danish history and in Danish law, such as the ban on Loyal To Familia. I am proud to be from a party that is not afraid to strike down hard and is not afraid of new initiatives when it comes to protecting Denmark, and that is exactly what this bill is about, that is to say to protect Denmark, and I am glad that such a broad majority of members in this Parliament support this bill. I am sorry that the Radical Left says that it agrees with the intention that people who turn their backs on Denmark should not have Danish citizenship, but that they will not do so because of it, let us then call it structure or technique. You can call it what you want to do in the way the bill is put together. I just think that's too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030132558	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030132600	Now the rapporteur has been asked three times whether the rapporteur thinks that it is purely technical for judicial review to be carried out in relation to a person who has committed crime, and I think it would be desirable if the rapporteur were to respond to that. Does the Conservative People's Party believe that it is purely technical that, if a person has committed something criminal, there will be justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030132624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030132626	Well, then I'll answer you for the fourth time, and I'll be happy to do so. Right now we have some people • Hundreds of people who have been in Syria, and many of them have returned. They are a real danger to the Danish state. Here we have a bill with very, very broad support in the elected Danish Parliament, which makes it possible to deprive someone of Danish citizenship. I think it is as democratic and fine as it can possibly be.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030132651	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030132713	Thank you for the floor. I simply cannot understand how one can stand on the country's finest platform and advocate that extremely dangerous IS terrorists, people who have joined the Islamic State, fought against Denmark and Danish soldiers, should go back to Denmark. I just can't believe it. We have been elected to the Danish Parliament to protect the Danes, and now I can hear that several of the parties on the left are still going to abandon the Danes and allow dangerous terrorists to return to Denmark. The government is proposing with this bill that we remove the sunset clause on the law that makes it possible to take Danish citizenship from IS terrorists who have dual citizenship, and of course we support that in New Citizens. We continue to call on the government to go harder on this, and that is why we are tabling an amendment to this bill ourselves. In New Citizens we believe that people with Danish citizenship who have signed up under the black flag of Islamic State should never be allowed back into Denmark. They must have taken away their Danish citizenship, and we do not care if they become stateless. They've chosen. They have chosen Denmark from, and now, of course, we have to choose them from. I really would urge the government and the parties supporting this proposal to go harder, and I would urge all parties to think about which foreigners they will in future grant Danish citizenship. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030132911	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are now moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030132922	Thank you, President. It is only a year since the law of citizenship was amended in an emergency procedure where a legal basis was introduced into the law of citizenship which allowed the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration to administratively deprive a person of Danish citizenship. The law made it possible to take away citizenship administratively while the person concerned is not in Denmark. It is reprehensible when the withdrawal of citizenship is administrative and not by an independent court. This position is also consistent when looking at the consultation responses received to this bill, and was also in the consultation responses to the draft law amending the law on Danish citizenship and the Aliens Act, which was adopted on 24 October 2019 following an urgent procedure in the Folketing. That bill was put forward without a sunset clause, but many consultation responses from organisations wanted this and therefore this clause was incorporated. It surprises us in the alternative that even now, at the beginning of the new parliamentary year, we have to decide whether it makes sense to remove the sunset clause when it would be early enough to do so in six months' time. The Minister himself said a year ago that we will then be in a position to assess how the law has worked. Perhaps there will be a need to adjust it a little, said the Minister. Since the early adoption of the Act, a decision has been taken on the administrative withdrawal of Danish citizenship in six cases relating to persons staying abroad. Three of these cases have been brought before the courts. Once again, it seems premature to deal with the lifting of the sunset clause now before we know the outcome of the three pending cases. In the hearing the Council points out that before the sunset clause is lifted, consideration should be given to the content of the law in depth, given that this is no longer an urgent situation. This is something we can so much agree with in the alternative. When we look at the urgent law, we see serious deterioration in the legal guarantees that otherwise apply to persons seeking an independent court ruling on cases between the State and individual persons. We see a problem in that Denmark may not meet the obligation to avoid statelessness if the administrative withdrawal of Danish citizenship results in statelessness. And last but not least, we see children who may get into trouble because their parents' citizenship has been deprived of them administratively. This maintains children in war zones where their health and life are at risk. In the alternative, our basic position is that we must always be able to rely on the State not to abuse its power, but to safeguard the democratic freedoms and rights of all people. And when we see legislation that overrides the division of power, we simply have to say no. The alternative does not support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030133204	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030133216	I would like to start by thanking you for the debate on the legislative proposal. Last autumn, in 2019, the Government took the initiative to amend the law on Danish citizenship and the Aliens Act, which means that foreign fighters may have their Danish nationality removed administratively if the persons concerned have taken a course of action which seriously harms the vital interests of the country, unless they thereby become stateless. In my view, it is important to do what is possible to take Danish citizenship from foreign fighters with dual citizenship, thereby ensuring that those people do not come to Denmark and pose a threat in Danish society. The bill was dealt with urgently by the Folketing a year ago, and the rules have since been applied. The most recent figures show that eight people have been deprived of their Danish nationality administratively, and none of these persons have subsequently come to Denmark. There are two further cases under assessment in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration. Of the eight cases, five have now been brought before the courts and no judgment has yet been given in any of the cases. In connection with the examination of the bill in October 2019, a sunset clause was inserted into the law, which means that the law, and hence the possibility of administratively depriving foreign fighters of their Danish citizenship, lapses on 1 July 2021, unless the Folketing decides otherwise. I do not want that to happen, and we are therefore proposing with this bill that we repeal the sunset clause so that, even after 1 July 2021, we will be able to deprive a person of his Danish nationality if he has dual citizenship and has shown a course of action which is seriously detrimental to the vital interests of the country. I myself believe that the law has worked as intended up to now. With the possibility of administrative withdrawal, it has been possible to take citizenship from persons while still staying outside Denmark's borders, and it has been possible to do so significantly faster than in the past. At the same time, the legal guarantees which I believe must be present in a democratic society such as ours, and which have also been used by five out of the eight. As the world unfortunately looks, I also believe that there will probably be a need to preserve the possibility of administratively depriving foreign fighters of their citizenship for some time to come. With these words, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for a good debate and, of course, as always, I would like to stress that we are available in relation to both oral and written answers for the legislative process.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030133501	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030133503	Thank you. I am glad that the Conservatives and the Minister agree that it is very good that we can deprive people who turn their backs on Denmark of their citizenship. But I also hope that we agree that these people should not have had Danish citizenship at all in the first place. That is why my question is not surprising to the Minister: when can we have negotiations on Danish citizenship so that we can tighten up so that these people will hopefully not get Danish citizenship at all in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030133536	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030133538	I think, in general terms, that we have some excellent rules for the granting of citizenship. It is true that in the past we have had far too lenient rules. In fact, I think that today they are about, but in some places there is a need to make some adjustments, and I also believe that when it comes to crime, there is a need to tighten up a little. That is why our plan remains for negotiations to be convened, and my plan remains that this call may be sent on this side of Christmas. That's my ambition.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030133606	Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030133608	I am very pleased to hear that, because in a consultation the other day the Minister said that it might be within the current parliamentary year. After all, we blue parties have sent a joint letter to the Minister calling for a summons, and I remember clearly the chaos that occurred at the third reading of the bill on the granting of Danish citizenship just before the summer. The line to the platform was longer than the line to the Snapsting on a good day. I hope that we can avoid this happening again, and I am pleased that the Minister will convene negotiations on Danish citizenship before Christmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030133640	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030133642	I am always pleased that there is a debate on the Foreign Policy Bills in the Parliamentary Assembly, and I am also quite sure that we will not be able to make an agreement on citizenship on this side of Christmas. But that is why negotiations can be called for, and I will try to give some first thought to what a process might look like next week, when we have a meeting in the circle behind the birthright circular. I believe that we will only enter into some real negotiations on the other side of Christmas, but I fully agree that we must have these negotiations carried out, and I myself have some things I would like to talk about not only with the parties in the circle but also with other parties. I hope we can do that this winter.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030133721	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030133724	I would ask the Minister to explain what would happen if there were automatic judicial review.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030133732	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030133733	The short answer is that then all decisions would automatically be sent to a Danish court, and that is not our ambition in the government. My primary purpose of this bill is to ensure that these people are not allowed to enter Denmark. And when I see that the eight who have been administratively deprived of citizenship have not entered, I think that is a good thing. Then, of course, it is clear that when an administrative decision is taken, the administrative law applies, and there is also the possibility that you can bring your own case before the court, like any other person who is subject to a decision taken by the authorities. There are then five out of the eight who have done so, and now those cases have to go their wrong way, and then we have to see what the court will decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030133815	Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030133817	But what would happen if there were automatic judicial review?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030133823	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030133825	Again, the short answer is that it will be passed on to the courts. But what is normal in Denmark is that when the authorities decide, it happens, of course, according to the principles of the administrative law, with the consultation of the parties and everything else. And if you are unhappy with that decision, you can go to the courts. That is also what applies here. So it is not a verdict that the Minister of Foreign Affairs gives, it is a decision that is taken, and then, if you disagree with it, you can choose to go to the courts, just as if you were denied family reunification or a building permit or many other decisions that are constantly taken by the authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030133858	Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030133902	Does the Minister agree that this bill is aimed only at a small proportion of foreign fighters who potentially return or have already returned to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030133915	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030133917	It is true that not everyone has gone to, for example. Syria or Iraq, which has dual nationality. That is why this legislation only applies to a certain proportion of the people who have left. That's right. We have also seen foreign fighters countries at Copenhagen Airport, where the police have been ready and where a case has then been brought before the Danish courts. That's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030133941	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030133945	That's just what I think is worth noting. I think it is fine to defend the Danes against this small proportion of very dangerous people. But I just think it is a pity that the large proportion is not defended against the Danes. To them they say: Yes, come to Denmark. I find that sad. Of course, I think it is fine to do something about it. One can still vote in favour of the amendment tabled by the Danish People's Party and New Citizens' Party that this bill should also include those who have only one citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030134021	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030134023	Since we last dealt with the law, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration has tried to gain some experience from other countries as to what their legislation looks like. In fact, there are eight other countries in Europe that have administrative deprivation of citizenship, and two countries outside Europe: New Zealand and Australia. If you read pages 9 and 10 of the bill, you can also see a little more in detail how they have actually put the legislation together in those countries. But what is a principle for us who have signed up to the conventions is that people who are Danish citizens have the right to enter Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030134058	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030134101	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. Now politics is rarely black and white, and no matter how disagreeable one may be on a specific matter, it is always the case that one can understand some of the arguments of the other. Are there any negative consequences in this case, which the Minister is a little annoyed about, but which are not enough to change the Minister's basic position on the matter, i.e. some consequences of this judgment which might upset the Minister a little bit?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030134130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030134132	I would therefore like to be honest and say that some of the cases mentioned by Mrs Marie Krarup also make me think: can we do more to ensure the safety of the Danish state and the Danish population? And when I have turned on the remoter in the last few days and have seen the examples from France, have I not been able to stop thinking about: are there other ways of protecting this society from terrorism and radicalisation? So if I'm thinking about something, it's more like that. I'm not so worried about whether this is an attack on the rule of law. If you look down into the World Justice Projects Rule of Law Index of over 100 countries around the world, you can see that Denmark is no. 1, and so did we in 2020, after we had adopted this law. We are in the lead, and there is nothing we should be ashamed of here. We have a really, really good rule of law, and it is good that we have a debate on it, and I think it is qualified speeches coming from several different parties, which also criticise it, but I also think that we have to deal on the bottom line with the fact that we are a society that defends ourselves against terrorism. This must, of course, be done within the framework of the rule of law, but I think this legislation does.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030134237	Torsten Gejl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030134239	The reason why we're no. 1 is, of course, that we are critical and serious about such debates as this and this type of legislation. To stay in the category I mentioned earlier, could it not annoy the Minister a little that we might fail to have the opportunity to punish some of these people who may have committed really, really bad crimes?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030134300	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030134302	There can be no two views that these people should be punished. I think so, too, sir. Rasmus Stoklund mentions a relevant concern, namely what our ability to lift the burden of proof for something that has been going very far away in a Danish courtroom really is. It's not as easy as if it's been just around the corner. The second is that there is also an extra consideration here: to protect Danish society from who comes here, and when we have taken away these eight citizenships, we are also registering it in the European systems, so that means that they are banned from entering the whole of Europe. So it is also an opportunity to help our European colleagues that they cannot enter Italy, France or Greece or wherever they want to enter.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030134339	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030134343	Thank you. One crucial element of having a sunset clause is, of course, that we have the opportunity to evaluate such a significant change as is the case when we take a shortcut on the courts for committed crime. That is why I would like to ask the Minister why this is really an evaluation when, as far as the cases complained of are concerned, it has not even been brought to justice, and for the cases not complained of, it has never reached the courts. So how can the Minister, on this basis, say that an evaluation of this has actually been carried out when it is as serious as it is here?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030134427	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030134429	I would like to start by saying that I do not believe that we are taking a shortcut on the courts. Administrative decisions are, of course, being taken and they can be brought before the courts. It is true that five cases have been brought, some at the Court of Justice and some at the Court of Justice, and it is not inconceivable that some of those cases, regardless of the outcome, will be appealed and that they may end up in the Supreme Court, and it may take a very long time, as the questioner knows. That is why I am a little concerned if this law just expires next summer, because then the tools we have to protect Denmark and the whole of Europe from these people entering are gone, and we have to wait for a matter to be decided at the Supreme Court. I would rather maintain the legislation that we have now and our clear assessment is that it is within the framework of Danish and international law. If the courts think otherwise, we must, of course, meet again and find out what we are doing to pursue our objectives within the framework of the Constitution and international obligations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030134519	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030134521	Thank you for the reply from the Minister. That is why I would like to know whether the Minister agrees with, for example, the Institute for Human Rights, which claims here that it is a very small basis on which we have so far to evaluate it at all when there has not yet been a full judicial review of the cases that have been appealed, and that we do not know, among those cases that have not been appealed, why it has not happened, that is, whether it is because of a lack of knowledge that the message has not just been seen in the e-box or what it should be. Does the Minister agree that it is a rather small basis on which we are actually evaluating this law after a year?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030134556	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030134558	I fully agree that the basis for evaluating is stronger if 50 decisions are taken instead of 8, just as I agree that, if there is a ruling from the Supreme Court, we also have an even more qualified discussion in the Folketing. I totally agree with that. The only question is whether we should leave the law to expire this summer and wait for those matters to be settled and for a long time to pass or whether we should remove this sunset clause so that the law can run further. We do not at any time reject any further amendments to this legislation in one direction or another. Right now, I'm just preoccupied with the fact that this tool doesn't disappear this summer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030134631	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030134634	Thank you so much. After all, we come some way with the legislation that we are now removing the sunset clause, and that is very positive. But the Minister says here that we must do everything we can, and I just have to say that with this bill we are doing something, but that we are not doing everything we can because, unfortunately, the Minister is still taking account of obsolete conventions written in a completely different time and with a completely different purpose and which stand in the way of depriving all IS terrorists of their Danish citizenship. Does the Minister really believe that the Minister is doing everything within the power of the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030134714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030134716	I believe that we in the government are doing what we can within the framework of the rule of law, and I think that is also an important principle. For us, the rule of law is, of course, the basic law, but it is also that we have signed up to some international obligations. Within this framework, we are trying to fill the room to the maximum, and that is what this bill is an expression of, and we are by no means opposed to any further action being taken. That is also why I have been interested in gaining experience from other countries to see how they do, and I will by no means deny that we can take further steps, but it will be within the framework of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030134750	Mette Thiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030134752	But the rule of law is the Danish constitution, and that is the basis on which we stand. Now the Minister is again beginning to bring obsolete conventions into this convention, from which we can easily resign, because they are not equivalent to the fierce challenge, you can just say, the problems we are facing now, with IS terrorists, with violent Muslims around Europe, who are committing terror, and all these different things. We are in a completely different reality today. So I have to ask the Minister something again. Now we are talking about the Danish rule of law being the constitution. Does the Minister really not think that if you had the political will, if there was a political majority in favour of it, then you could resign from the conventions and thereby deprive all IS terrorists of their Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030134837	Thank you. Then we'll get an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030134839	One thing I want to say is that we are very much in agreement with the fact that these conventions have been written for a certain time and that we must be careful that they do not turn into religion. They must also be understood in their time and challenged in their time, and we are also involved in testing them and going to the border. For example, the Minister of Justice is coming. To put forward a bill which means that we must be able to take citizenship from gang criminals with dual citizenship if they endanger the vital interests of the state, and that is a concrete example of us trying to test the limits of these conventions. But we must insist that Danish citizens on the border have the right to enter Danish society. We should not move to a place where Danish citizens cannot move into Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030134917	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030134920	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. It is, of course, part of the rule of law that the burden of proof must be lifted and it is clear that it can be difficult, even when it comes to citizens abroad. But a precondition for being able to convict people is that you have to lift the burden of proof, whether it is here or abroad, and that, of course, has to be done. But does the Minister not agree that it would, after all, be a strengthening of the security of Danish citizens too, that, in relation to the citizens who have committed such crimes, we are at least trying to lift the burden of proof and have them convicted, rather than just risking that they are travelling elsewhere in the world and committing terrorist acts which can also harm Danish citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030135000	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030135001	Yes, but we have always supported that, for example. is a regional trial for the people who have committed terrible crimes in or around what was called the Islamic State. We have also said that it can be difficult to lift the burden of proof in some of these cases if they arrive on Danish soil. I also think that, in principle, if I go to Sweden and steal a bicycle, the Swedes have the right to throw me into the back seat of a police car and stand before a Swedish judge and have me convicted under Swedish law, and that also means that if you have gone to the Middle East, you must also accept that you have gone to another country, which has rules and systems that you must also be accountable to. And our task here as government and also as parliament, I think, is that at the top of the list of priorities we have the security of the Danes and the Danish state; it is not that a criminal act committed in a third country should lead to a certain punishment under Danish law. The first priority must be our own security.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030135101	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030135103	But would it not have been more reasonable that when the Kurdish self-government authorities asked the Danish State to take Danish citizens home and bring them to justice, because they did not have the opportunity to do so themselves, but where they could in turn assist with evidence, they had accepted the extended hand of the Kurdish self-government authorities and helped to ensure that we had these citizens convicted, rather than allowing them to sit down there waiting for Erdogan to come and make sure that they came out of prison because the prison system broke down in Kurdish self-government? Wouldn't that have been more reasonable?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030135136	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030135138	I would like to start by saying that I fully recognise the dilemma here, and also that it is not all black and white, and that there are also foreign policy considerations, some foreign policy considerations and some security policy considerations that must be balanced against each other. In the government, we have said that the security of Danes and Danish society is priority one, and that has been the basis for all the decisions we have taken, including the bill we are discussing here today, but also for many of the dialogues that are with people outside the country's borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030135212	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030135224	The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030135237	Thank you. Today's bill is about the rules for volunteering in Denmark if you are a foreigner. The proposal is, in the eyes of the Social Democrats, uncontroversial, and the term'service-checking' seems to me to be fair. As the rules are today, the opportunities for foreigners to do unpaid volunteer work depend on their place of residence. Certain foreign workers, students, trainees etc. may not carry out voluntary work and, as several organisations report in the consultation note, it may be difficult for voluntary organisations to understand which foreigners may carry out voluntary unpaid work. Of course, unpaid voluntary work must not replace paid work, and this has also been taken into account in the draft law. As the draft law says, it is a condition that it is normal for the work in question to be carried out on an unpaid and voluntary basis. We therefore believe that it is sensible to standardise the rules so that all foreigners with a legal residence in Denmark have the opportunity to do unpaid volunteer work. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030135347	Thank you. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030135407	Thank you for that, President. I should like to say hello to Mads Birde, who unfortunately has been prevented from being in the Chamber today, and that is why I have taken over from him. In the Left, we agree that foreigners who are entitled to stay in Denmark should be given the opportunity to do voluntary unpaid work. Voluntary work is a good opportunity to take part in Danish society, because when you do volunteer work, you help to take responsibility for our society as long as you stay in this country. It offers some good opportunities to get to know Danish and to get to know Danish society. Whatever kind of volunteering you do, you contribute to strengthening citizenship and integration. With this bill we strengthen the opportunities for foreigners to lift a voluntary commitment and take part in Danish society as long as they stay in Denmark. We in the Left think that is a good thing. The many types of residence permits and different rules can today be difficult for organisations and associations to navigate. The alignment of rules also makes it easier for organisations and associations to assess whether a foreigner has the right to do voluntary work. Less bureaucracy is good, but we also want to make sure that it does not affect the right to reside in Denmark. Foreigners must contribute as long as they are part of Danish society, but they must also return to their country of origin when their residence permit is no longer in force or when it is safe in their home country. In the committee procedure, therefore, the Left will ensure that this bill will not have an impact on the association of foreigners with Denmark and therefore the right of residence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030135605	There are no brief comments, which is why we can go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030135610	Thank you for the floor. We, like the Social Democrat rapporteur, think that the draft law sounds very uncontroversial. It sounds sympathetic and harmless to allow people who are legally resident to do unpaid volunteer work, but we are a little concerned that it may have some side effects. Therefore, we will wait until we have received answers to various questions: can we imagine that it can provide a link with the country, which can give greater opportunity to obtain permanent residence in Denmark if you do voluntary unpaid work? Can people on toil be allowed to do voluntary unpaid work? Can this rule change, if it can be used to allow you to stay here in the longer term, make Denmark more likely to become a pull patch for people? We would like this kind of clarification in committee before we say whether or not we can vote in favour of the draft law. At first sight we think it sounds uncontroversial, but we just have to be on the safe side, because we would not want to suddenly stand for something that might look like a weakening of foreign policy. It is absolutely not within our policy. So we need to clarify things before we can say anything to or from.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030135749	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Kathrine Oldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030135759	Thank you. First of all, I would like to mention that I am here today instead of our employment rapporteur, Samira Nawa, who was unable to attend the first reading. In the Radical Left, we very much welcome the fact that we are now standardising the rules governing the possibility for foreigners to do unpaid volunteer work. It is a really healthy principle that legislation should not be unnecessarily bureaucratic and complicated, as it has clearly been in this area. It is therefore also quite reasonable to make it easier for voluntary organisations to assess whether a foreigner has the right to do voluntary work. In addition, it is important that we ensure the possibility of voluntary engagement with civil society. We have a unique association life in Denmark, where we work together on common goals across gender, age and social divisions. This is where we meet and get to know each other. As new in Denmark, it is a very good opportunity to build networks and generally get a better knowledge of our society. We must support this, and we do not do so with complicated rules and unnecessary bureaucracy. That is why we in the Radical Left are looking forward to voting in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030135906	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That's why we can move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030135916	We are talking today about the foreigners who do exactly what we really like. Unpaid volunteering is an important part of what makes Denmark the country we know, and it is a joy every time a citizen sets up and wants to lend a hand. It is clear that unpaid volunteering should not replace ordinary paid labour. It is also important for the SF that the trade union movement, the Red Cross, Danish Universities, the Voluntary Council and others support the bill. The current legislation seems to be unnecessarily bureaucratic for organisations that need to spend time and effort finding out whether foreigners are allowed to do voluntary unpaid work. It also seems a little strange that some foreigners with a residence permit are currently allowed to do voluntary unpaid work, while other groups with a residence permit may not. So it is those with temporary residence permits that are particularly affected. This applies, for example, to students foreigners who are in Denmark on visas, or PhDs. On the other hand, I think that the Red Cross has a point in its response to the hearing, in which they expressly state here that voluntary unpaid work must not have a commercial purpose and that it must be of general interest. That's right, of course. On the other hand, the Red Cross also points out that voluntary work can sometimes be both things at once. Like me, I think that the FH hearing has a point when they say that it should be clarified that the boundary between what is usually carried out by paid labour and voluntary unpaid labour can often be difficult to define. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030140101	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why it is now Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030140111	Thank you. I think that the former rapporteur has raised some wise points that I think we should look at in committee work. Well, it is good that it will now be possible for refugees, foreigners and immigrants to be able to engage in voluntary work and in society. It can be said that the very content of the rules for voluntary work follows the existing legislation for all Danes and draws a line between voluntary work and wage work. This is good, so that on the one hand we do the best we can to ensure that we are not exploited as free labour, and on the other hand we also provide the opportunity to contribute with our volunteer work, to make new friends, to learn Danish and more well. We look forward to further work. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030140158	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Well, then, I'd like to welcome Mr. Knox. Marcus Knuth, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030140205	Thank you, sir. President. Voluntary work is an important part of Danish society. It is also a great way for foreigners who come to Denmark to become part of our society, to be integrated into our society. So, of course, it should not be unnecessarily complicated. That is why we support the Conservative proposal, but on the assumption, as the Left also said, that what the government says is true, precisely that it does not affect the right to reside in Denmark. After all, we have seen the government come up with a proposal that allows refugees to stay in Denmark even if there is peace in their country of origin if they have a job. The government itself calls it something that is not a relaxation, but we would very much call it a relaxation of foreign policy. So we're just gonna make sure this isn't some kind of attempt at a covert relaxation. I don't think so. But on the assumption that it is true, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030140306	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we can move on to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030140313	Thank you. Simplifying the rules on unpaid volunteering for foreigners sounds both sympathetic and uncontroversial. Questions have been raised earlier in this House as to whether there may be a risk that the foreigners who are in the country will be more closely associated with the country and will thus be able to stay here more easily when their residence permit expires, as a result of the fact that they have done unpaid volunteer work. We believe that this is essential in the work of the committee. Similarly, we would also like to know whether what is stated here in the draft law, namely that it does not increase the proportion of foreigners who apply to Denmark and their rights to come to Denmark, also applies. But if the two prerequisites are clarified and clarified positively, then New Citizens back up. When we have a major focus on foreign policy and a problem with foreigners in Denmark, it is the foreigners who commit crime, the foreigners who do not want to work and the foreigners who do not share our values or directly oppose our values. And here we are talking about foreigners who not only want to work but who actually share our values to such an extent that they are willing to work unpaidly, voluntarily, and form part of our civil society. This can only be found sympathetic if, as I said, it does not affect the right of foreigners to stay here when their residence permit expires or the possibility for foreigners to stay in Denmark. So, on the basis of these conditions, new citizens will be able to support the proposal if the work of the committee falls, as we hope.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030140507	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why it is now the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030140523	Thank you for a good debate on the draft law... a good and brief debate on the bill. After all, we are in favour of an alien policy in which the influx to Denmark is controlled and where we demand that those who come here choose Denmark and our social model. We are also in favour of coherent and meaningful legislation. This is true in general terms, and of course also in the area of foreigners. A well-functioning civil society and the ability of citizens to contribute volunteer work are also an important part of Danish society and our culture, but today the right of foreigners to do unpaid volunteer work depends on the individual's place of residence. For example, refugees and family members can: without limitation perform unpaid volunteer work, while foreign students, for example, are limited by their work permit of normally 20 hours a week. Other groups may not engage in unpaid voluntary work at all. This is true, for example. interns and foreigners who are in Denmark on a visa. I understand that voluntary organisations find it difficult to see whether a foreigner has the right to do unpaid volunteer work, and it has been difficult to find a way around it. Of course, we need to make this a little easier. With this bill, the government is therefore proposing to standardize the rules so that all foreigners who are already entitled to stay in Denmark will have the same right to do unpaid volunteer work. It is therefore not intended to ease access to Denmark, but to give an extra right to carry out unpaid voluntary work for foreigners who are already entitled to stay in the country. It is also important for the government that unpaid voluntary work does not replace paid labour, and it is a prerequisite that it is customary for the work in question to be carried out unpaidly and voluntarily. In addition, unpaid volunteering will not be possible if the arrangement at which the work is to be carried out has a commercial or partial commercial purpose. With the cut proposed by the legislative proposal, I believe that we will have legislation that makes sense and that can be explained. In those words, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for a good debate and I look forward to the further consideration of the bill in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030140727	Thank you. There are no brief comments and no one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. Now we were going to consider the next proposal, but I do not see that the Minister has come to the Chamber. That is why I have to postpone the sitting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030140948	I think we are now where those who are to be present are present. The debate is open. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030141019	Thank you for that, President. It is true that we are now discussing a bill on the AUB, the employers' training contributions. There is, of course, a lot of talk, a lot of negotiations, very important negotiations on internships, in other words how to ensure that young people who are going to have vocational training and who have sought vocational training can also have a apprenticeship. After all, we must await the outcome of the trialogue. What we are discussing today is a little less explosive, given that it is the annual adjustment of the model parameters. It can be said that this bill is about • when the social partners have assessed what we will need in the coming year; who will there be more of; who might be a little less used? In the Social Democratic Party, of course, we support the fact that the annual adjustment is being made here, also the proposal put forward by the Minister, which is about adjusting the AU contribution in relation to the internship AUB, which is about adjusting the activity-dependent VEU allowance, so that we also ensure adult and continuing training, and then, of course, to maintain the additional contribution as it is at present. In the light of this, we are preparing to support the proposal and, moreover, eagerly await the tripartite negotiations which will provide a more long-term solution to the student and internship situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030141156	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030141210	Thank you for that, President. It is quite true that the bill we are debating today is in some way a recurring event which, since we made the tripartite agreement back in 2016, turns up every year to ensure that we have a balance in the system when it comes to how many we train in the various professional fields. But it is also important to use the opportunity today to say that there is also a need for due care in politics. This applies both to the annual model parameters, which, of course, have an underlying large system, which basically is that we do not have to overtrain, so we risk sending some young people into some courses where they will then find themselves in a situation where there is no job to get for them afterwards, and that, at the same time, we also use the annual bill to ensure that our employers are both public and private as well as provide the places of work needed to ensure that our vocational training system works. Because it is an exchange system and the prerequisite for it to be an exchange system in the future is that we not only have vocational training and schools but also have the places of work to do. Therefore, the annual calculation of what to pay by the employer is also made. There we have to say that we are very surprised by the fact that the government has chosen to table a draft law, L 48, which we are discussing today, which has still not taken account of the criticisms made by the Reichsaudit and subsequently the State auditors, nor has it taken stock of the discussion we had here in Parliament, both before Christmas last year in connection with L 60, but also this spring in connection with the motion for a resolution that was tabled. Because it is not acceptable that the draft law before us today, L 48, should ignore the criticism of the auditors. It is, of course, a question of ensuring that payments are balanced, so that we have a basic balance in our labour market education contribution system. That is why we have also been circulated to the committee a proposal for an amendment to the draft law so that we can ensure that there is financial balance in the system. We hope, of course, that this will take place actively, both here at first reading, but also at second and third reading, where it will then be formally put forward. I welcome the statements I have already received from a number of other parties in relation to being co-sponsors of the amendment. We therefore need to show due care when it comes to the rates of contributions. There is no doubt, then, that when we look forward to the whole of our vocational training system and the need that we unfortunately continue to have to ensure more internships for young people, it is also important that we not only in the trialogues that are currently in progress, but also in the system that will then have to be anchored and adopted by legislative proposals here in Parliament, ensure a system that is economically also related to the difference between private employers and public employers. For what we can see, also in the annual status reports of how many places of work are being created, is unfortunately that the public sector does not provide the places of work they are going to have to do as they should. This also means that the government, the public employers, both the municipalities as a whole and also the regions as a whole, in recent years have paid and paid a penalty to the AUB system simply because they have not created the number of internships imposed on them by the agreement made. It has to be said that the legislative proposal we are discussing today, and most of all the proposal that is also linked to what is also a question of the fact that if you do not set up internships, you have to pay off from the fact that you do not lift your responsibility for training. After all, it has not had the same effect on public employers as it has on private employers. Because there is a difference between the small self-employed who receive an additional levy because they have not created the pupil's seat for an electrician apprentice as they should, and the situation we unfortunately see in the municipalities and in part also in the regions, that when they do not set up the number of internships they should, the additional charge will be paid, but basically it is just from one public fund to another public fund. And there is no point in having basically an internship system in which the public employers do not take the lead and do not provide the internships they must. So now that we are discussing both L 48 and the amendment which has been circulated to us and which is about balancing it, I think we really also have an obligation to ensure that the system is also forward-looking to ensure that public employers on the local and regional sides provide the training places they legally have to. Otherwise, when we deal with next year's legislative proposal on next year's model parameters, we will unfortunately still be left in a situation where very many young people cannot get the internship that allows them to complete their education. And that is actually the overall objective, both with the draft law today and with our entire system for vocational training, so that we can secure enough places for work placements.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030141721	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030141735	Thank you. The main purpose of employers' training contributions is to create an incentive for employers to take more apprentices. We clearly support this in the Danish People's Party, because we need to encourage more people to take vocational training. In this context, we are also looking forward to the conclusion of the ongoing trialogue negotiations. I very much hope that there can be agreement on a better framework to help young people find apprenticeships. There is no doubt that the availability of apprenticeships and the safety of obtaining an apprenticeship are crucial to young people's choices. Then I would like to say that I also fully agree with the remarks made by the Left on the challenge of public employers. We also hope that this will be dealt with so that we can ensure that there is pressure at all workplaces to create the necessary training places. But back to today's bill. It is about the employer having to pay for each apprentice whom they do not take in relation to the individual employer's target training ratio. for each apprentice whom they do not take in proportion to the number they should take. The model parameters are that the calculations include an assessment of expected demand and the development of demand for labour with the training in question. The scheme is based on a tripartite agreement from 2016, and what we are discussing today is in and out the annual update of the model parameters. At the same time, the Act also establishes the additional contribution rate and the VEU contribution for 2021. There has been a long-term surplus in the scheme and that is not the intention. It has also been criticised this spring by the state auditors and the National Audit Office. The agreement under the scheme is that there must be an ongoing balance sheet. This bill will still pay more than is expected to be spent. That is something that needs to be done up to now. That is why the Danish People's Party also supports the amendment just announced by the Left, in the hope that a majority can be created for changes so that the scheme can be balanced. I look forward to discussing this in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030141931	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Mrs Kathrine Ollldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030141940	Thank you. We have here a predominantly technical legislative proposal which mainly involves a number of adjustments to the underlying parameters of the AUB contribution, which help to ensure that there are enough apprenticeships for pupils in vocational training. This is done in concrete terms by giving a carrot to the companies that take the most apprentices and, accordingly, giving those who take fewer opportunities to contribute to the future training of sufficient professional labour. The Radical Left is in favour of the underlying logic of the model and, of course, we support the proposal here, which is therefore primarily of a technical nature. It is a bottom-up task for the government to balance the AUB system. The government undertook to do so in connection with the same type of legislative proposal, namely L 60, last year. However, we believe that it is a party discussion, how to balance the system and how to support the creation of more apprenticeships in the best possible way. We will therefore not enter into a specific discussion on the content of the trialogue negotiations currently under way and cannot give our opinion on the amendment tabled by the Left. It is out of respect for the parties and the ongoing negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030142050	There is a brief comment on Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030142054	Yes, thank you. I have two questions for the rapporteur. I know it is not the permanent rapporteur of Radicals, so I apologise, and if the rapporteur chooses to pass it on, we must take it from there. However, the first question is that of the public employers, who have not provided the places of work they should: does the rapporteur and the Radical Left agree that we have a challenge with the fact that an economic penal system works all the other way better with a private employer, where you can really feel it in the local company, and less well with a public employer, where it is basically public money that you move around? And will the rapporteur help to look together at what we can do to ensure a system that also ensures to public employers that they create the training places to which they are obliged under the 2016 agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030142145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030142147	Now I am also a municipal rapporteur, so this is a matter that is in fact resonating here. And I think that I know only municipalities that are really, really good at taking in apprentices, and it is in particular office jobs that are involved, because that is what the municipalities are contributing and can contribute. But, of course, we would like to take part in looking at whether the municipalities should take greater responsibility in this regard and whether something can be done in relation to the agreements that apply or how we can implement them. And, of course, they must also help to lift it. Another small problem, which I also think is important from the point of view of the Radical Left, is that we very often forget to talk about the jobs that actually lack apprentices, i.e. where there are not the right or not enough trainees or not enough apprentices to actually take the apprenticeships around them; it is at least as big a problem as the lack of apprenticeships.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030142246	Mrs. Ellen Trane Nørby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030142248	Thank you. The last part is certainly a challenge, and that is also why there is a mechanism in the system which means that if you have been seeking and have not been able to get a seat, then the additional contribution will not be made. However, with regard to the public employers, it is the case that the public employers do not only deliver within the office; it is also in the whole green area where there are very many employees; it is within IT and data; it is in the whole supply sector. And there we can just see that the public is subscribing today, and I am pleased that the Radical Left will take part in looking at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030142321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030142322	The Radical Left is pleased that the Left is pleased that the Radical Left will help to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030142328	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mrs Astrid Carøe, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030142336	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that, of course, we support the legislative proposal to maintain the additional contribution effort. We have a clear goal to secure more internships. Lack of internships means a greater drop-out in vocational training and hence fewer skilled workers in the future. And we're missing them, and we're gonna need a lot more already in 2025. Businesses need them, which is why companies also have a great responsibility to help ensure that there are enough work placements. Therefore, an internship-dependent AUB contribution is a good thing, so that employers who contribute to the training of skilled labour are rewarded and those who do not contribute are given greater responsibility for the overall funding of employers' training contributions. That's why we're backing up. In the SF, we want to be involved in discussing a better balance between revenue and expenditure, but that requires a greater discussion, and we certainly do not think that we can do so right now while negotiations are under way. That is why we will not be supporting the amendment tabled by the Left. The Government has indicated back in December 2019 that, following the collective negotiations, it would like to initiate discussions on how the challenges of the AUB can be addressed, and we look forward to that discussion. So we support the draft law as put forward in terms of model parameters and the adjustment of the veu contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030142501	Thank you. There is a brief comment to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030142504	Thank you. It is about SF's view that it is not for the Folketing to set the level. Well, it's always been like that. It has always been the Folketing and not the parties that have set the level. After all, it has been adopted in legislation down here, both when we raised the amount, because there was an imbalance in the other direction, and also now that we have to put it down, where there is an imbalance in the direction of additional collection. That is exactly what the National Audit Office has pointed out, that is what the State Auditors have pointed out, and that is the criticism that one chooses to ignore with an answer that the parties must find out. Is it such an attempt to say, as it were, that we are not taking seriously the criticism of the National Audit Office? Or to what do I owe it? Is this a matter of majority opinion in relation to the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030142609	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030142611	I simply do not think that the rapporteur of the Left heard what I said. We look forward very much to discussing these AUB funds and how the balance is, but do not think, out of respect for the negotiations that are going on right now, that we should do so now. In addition, we think that this is a greater debate than an amendment in this debate. So let us at last discuss it when the collective bargaining is in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030142633	Mrs. Ellen Trane Nørby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030142635	Thank you. However, it is simply to shift responsibility for something that the Folketing has legislated on, namely the level of this. So did we when we set the amount up. It is for the Folketing to confirm this. According to the legislation, such a bill must be put forward in this Chamber by 1 December in order to have effect for the next year. This means that if the Minister and the parties fail to reach agreement within a month, you cannot make an adjustment for the whole 2021 unless you make it backwards, and that is what you risk if you suddenly move this responsibility from the Folketing to the parties from the SF and also from other parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030142712	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030142714	I think that, out of respect for the negotiations that are going on right now, this is not something we should interfere with in relation to this bill. Then we will have to look at it if it is that they do not get that far with the negotiations. Then we'll have to look at it when the time comes. But I do hope that the parties will be able to find an agreement and that we will be able to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030142734	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and that is why we are now moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030142745	The legislative proposal here is, of course, the result of tripartite agreements, as has been emphasised several times. The aim was good: that it should provide a considerably higher number of internships I think it was 8,000 to 10.000 that were the target when the tripartite agreement was concluded. We have largely endorsed the accompanying legislation that has been in the trialogue negotiations, and we will do so today. But I would also like to say that we are actually doing so without going up to the great enthusiasm, because it is quite obvious that the measures agreed in the trialogue negotiations there a few years ago have not solved the internship problem. We are also taking a position today on the proposal, given that there are, after all, new tripartite negotiations. I can already anticipate any questions. I fully agree that it is the Folketing that decides on these matters, but nevertheless I hope that the tripartite negotiations that the government has are helping to remedy significantly the major internship problem we are facing. As far as the whole principle model is concerned, we think that the construction is right, namely that those who contribute relieve the financial burden of, and that those who stand by and do not lift educational responsibilities, we pay more. In general terms, it is our view that there is a need to put the economic thumb screws further on those employers who do not lift their education responsibilities. We are also of the opinion that we need to look at the whole public sector. Whether or not there are other mechanisms that can be brought into play, we would be happy to discuss them. For many years I have been dealing with the whole part of welfare education, where I think that the municipalities have so failed to take responsibility for ensuring sufficient training places in both social and health care and in the educational field. I would also like to say here that I think that we need to see what happens at the trialogue negotiations to look at the entire model parameter design, the whole of that mishmash model. Although the problem is not so new, I took the trouble to read the bill carefully, and I stumbled over this description of the model: •Reproduction of the company's needs for skilled labour is based on an assumption that the company's needs for skilled employees are based on the fact that the last 20 years of development will continue over the next 10 years. I thought, that's a beautiful formulation. What if we used it in all the legislation we made in here, that is to say, to say that the developments that have been in the last 20 years will probably continue for the next 10 years as well. I think that is a strange wording. And it is not because I do not understand what has been the background, namely that something has to be tried if you want to make model parameters to steer by, but I might also think that, and hopefully others do too, now that I read it out loud, there is something in the way we control the area, which is hardly very wise or forward-looking. It is not at all foresight when we base everything on the development of the past 20 years. So the short of the long: I certainly think that there is a need for us to look at another management of the internship development. I have a legitimate hope that it will, hopefully, move something forward in the trialogue that is currently taking place. And when we see the results of them, it may well be that the Minister is taking an initiative or that others are taking an initiative to continue and further discuss what we are doing about the very large internship problem we have in vocational training. So with these comments, I must say that the Enhedslisten supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030143208	Thank you. There is a brief comment on Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030143212	Thank you. If you read on in the comments from the point where Mr. Jakob Silverhøj quoted, you will also see that DREAM's projection model is also included in relation to the model parameters. It doesn't make the system perfect. I think we should just say that this is probably the least bad system of the systems we have had in relation to also establishing a balance system which demonstrates that those who take apprentices sometimes also get a bonus for it, but most often just get thanks for creating internships, but that those who do not create internships and do not lift their training responsibilities pay an additional contribution. However, I would like to ask a question relating to the public employers, as the rapporteur also mentioned, and which is also of great concern to the Left. Does the rapporteur agree that the economic incentive system, which is what is basic in today's system, all things being equal has a greater effect on a private employer than it has on a public employer? For what we can unfortunately see is that public employers have not delivered. However, the private employers also provided what they had to deliver on the target number 2018 and actually survived. This does not mean that we have reached 8 000 to 10.000 additional internships by 2025, which is the target, but it is the public who have not provided enough at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030143321	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030143323	It may well be. I therefore agree that private employers are most strongly affected by this, because there is the tendency of private employers to think first of all about the company. There can be many reasons for this when you run a business. I therefore believe that there is a need to put strong pressure on private employers because they are primarily inclined to defend their own interests while we could have some other expectations of the public. That's why there's a difference between how it works. I would very much like to take part in a discussion on whether other systems can be found to regulate in relation to the public. We do not have a firm view of this. At any rate, there is clearly a need for us to do something different and more than what we have done so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030143413	Mrs. Ellen Trane Nørby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030143416	Thank you, and thank you. We're also preoccupied with the fact that we keep looking at it. And all due respect for the Minister's presence in negotiating rooms, but there is also a need for us to take a political stance on what we are doing to make it visible that public employers, municipalities, regions have not provided the number of internships agreed in 2016. In the end, it is some young people who cannot get the internship that allows them to complete their education. Therefore, I would like to hear Enhedslisten's rapporteur whether Enhedslisten will be willing to look at a system where they also publish annually, exactly how many internships there on a municipal basis, on a regional basis, have been delivered or not delivered, according to the agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030143453	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030143456	Yeah, I think that makes sense. After all, years ago we had a regulation where there was a very tight government regime, for example. in social and health education, where it was made up the municipality of the municipality and then the county of the county, how many places had been established. There were simply fixed objectives which were set centrally. For my sake, we could very much discuss such things again. There is an obvious need for us to find mechanisms that are more binding on public employers.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030143528	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. This means that we can move on to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030143541	Thank you. Now it is almost a year since, as a result of the Left, the accumulation of these AUB funds was called into question because the companies had overpaid over 4.5 billion. kr. in just four years, that is more than 1 billion. kr. Too much a year. The state auditors had reported this several times. When we then bumped into an economic crisis this spring because of corona and it has to be said that we are still quite well stuck in it, we suggested that we stop payments here for the rest of 2020, simply to give companies some liquidity. That's about it. 1.7 billion kr. With this proposal, the government is actually going to impose an additional cost on companies again, and it is in the middle of a crisis. We therefore find this highly questionable, and it shows that the government will not give sufficient priority to business and Danish jobs, and that this economic crisis is not taken seriously when, on the one hand, it tries to negotiate compensation packages and, on the other hand, it sits and demands from companies. Now what has to be closed is an agreement on what the rate should be, because the trialogue negotiations are not finished. Anyway, we think there's a good reason why they could have been finished. It's been known that this had to be fixed. That is why we cannot support this proposal, but we are together with the parties behind the amendment to reduce employers' contributions to employers' training contributions by 333 DKK. per full-time employee, equivalent to 700 million. kr., because that would guarantee our companies at least something. And with this amendment there are still 500 million. kr. more in deposit. We also support what has been said by previous rapporteurs, namely that it is therefore necessary to look very carefully at the fact that public employers are also adequately provided with work placements and also take their responsibilities seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030143744	There are no brief comments. That is why we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030143800	Thank you so much. I fully endorse what has just been said by the Conservative rapporteur, Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. I fully agree with the amendment that we are a number of parties together, and I agree with this, too, that we cannot support an overpayment via this model. So, with that said, I just want to say that we cannot support this draft law as it stands, but we will support the amendment that is being tabled and which will hopefully be incorporated into the legislative proposal, so that it can be supported more effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030143841	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we've come to the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030143855	I would like to start by thanking those parties who support the bill. When I stood on the platform during the first reading of last year's draft legislation on model parameters, I said that I wanted to have a more general discussion on the challenge of apprenticeships. We are missing out on skilled mechanics, carpenters and blacksmiths, etc., because we cannot ensure that young people have an apprenticeship. This is a problem that we have been discussing for many decades, and there is always such a struggle over who can remember the longest, in relation to when the earliest in his life has taken this discussion about the lack of apprenticeships. As far as I am concerned, I have a record from when I was 16, when I first discussed it here. It is usually topped by Kim Simonsen from HK, who remembers having been at a demonstration in the 1970s. I'd say that Mr. Knox... Jakob Silverhøj could come up with a similar story. This is something we have always discussed, and when it is, it may be, because at some point you typically inherited your profession from your father when you should be a skilled worker, and at some point it has stopped being part of the way we do things in our society and fortunately for it. A little more free choice has been made on the shelves, compared to what one's path becomes as an adult. We have just never managed to create a system that grabs around how to create enough apprenticeships, since it is not only one's network and family relations that determine whether one gets an apprenticeship. It has simply never succeeded. I think we should do something about that. We have to solve it for the individual student. It almost goes without saying that when you now apply for admission to a vocational training course there are too few people who do, and in this situation it may seem even more strange that we do not have the ability to provide a fluent course of training in good time to know what to do in relation to your main course. This means that it becomes, or at least seems, difficult and uncertain, that is to say, that we are going on vocational training, and I simply do not think we, as a society, can afford to do so. We need skilled labour and even more of it in the future, and that requires, of course, that as a young person and as a student you have clarity about what will happen in the time that comes. I was at NEXT a few months ago and met a student who had applied for 70 internships and received an answer to 10 of them. Everyone who has been unemployed knows that the whole thing about sending a whole lot of applications that you do not then get answers to is just one of the most depressing things. And that's what we do to young people where, as a society, we need them to take this education. We simply cannot be familiar with this. That is why I believe that we must solve this problem both for the sake of young people, but also because we need skilled labour in the future. This means that it is for the sake of both industry and society as a whole. The legislative proposal that is here is not an overall solution to that challenge, because the overall solution we are debating in tripartite negotiations right now. Maybe somebody found out I was late in the hall. That is because a great deal of bilateral talks are going on in such a trialogue, and so was when I was going into the Parliamentary Chamber to come here. So it's just to say that we're negotiating on life these days and weeks. I think we have a good momentum in the negotiations, and I am pleased that a majority in the Folketing has respect for the fact that these negotiations must be completed and form the starting point for regulating the law. The 2016 Tripartite Agreement is the basis for the internship-aud scheme. It was a step in the right direction back then in terms of securing enough apprenticeships. With the bill that is here, we set the so-called model parameters just so that things really should sound so djøf'ede, you can even get away with the legislation. That is what we are doing: we are setting the model parameters that will apply from 2021. It is the social partners who assess the need for labour in the individual subjects and how it develops, and I would like to say to the Enhedslisten rapporteur and also the Left, who noted how the text says that I also believe that there are certain challenges in our way of looking at it. And I can reassure you that, fortunately, the social partners are so clever that together they have also found a model that is rather smarter than the one that is the basis for this. Fortunately, this is the case with the system of parties: we are moving forward, and for each time we have new trialogues, there are better solutions. And so it would appear, if we can get an agreement, that there is doing in relation to the technique behind this. In addition to a tripartite agreement from 2017, which is the basis for the activity-dependent veu contribution, this means that we collect the employer's contributions necessary to finance the cost of the veu reimbursement by participating in the amu. If the cost increases, the employer's contribution increases too, and vice versa. But we are constantly making sure that there is a balance between expenditure and revenue, and that is what is meant by the rest of the system when the tripartite agreements are in place. However, this bill suggests that the model parameters of the internship aud and the activity-dependent veu contribution are set for 2021, and it is also proposed that the additional contribution rate in the internship aud be maintained for 2021. I think that was what was to say about this at first. We can go deeper into a conversation about these things once the tripartite agreement has also been settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030144424	Thank you. There are two inscribed for short remarks. The first is Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030144431	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. I have two questions to which I hope the Minister will reply. The first is about what we have also announced that we will be tabling an amendment on: the Reichsaudit's criticism that there is no balance in the system. After all, it is the responsibility of the government by 1 December to ask the Folketing for support for an adjusted amount, so that it can have effect for 2021. Is the Minister satisfied that we are being presented with a legislative proposal that still does not balance the AUB system, despite the criticism from the Reichsaudit? That is one question. The second issue concerns public employers. I should like to ask whether the Minister is satisfied that the public employers, i.e. the municipalities and the regions and also partly the state, have not provided the number of internships and thus provided young people with the employment perspective and the work placements they need to get through their training. This must be seen against the agreement we made in 2016, which also required public employers to create more internships.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030144531	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030144535	We are currently in trialogue negotiations, and that is why I do not want to go deeper into what we are doing, either in relation to private or public employers. In relation to the Reichsaudit, I would say: No, I am not satisfied with that. I would have liked us to have had a spring, as I had planned, namely zero corona, normal collective bargaining, and thus a trialogue, which would have been able to begin as early as May or June. I would have thought that was the best. So I wish I could have avoided the global pandemic and that we could therefore have followed the battle plan we had put in place. We couldn't do that, which is why there are a lot of things that have been postponed. I am extremely sorry about that, because it is not a joke that we want to change the things that we can, but after all we cannot witches. If I could have done it with a magic trick and said no pandemic, so that we could continue out there, then of course it would have been the most optimal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030144624	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030144626	I did not really ask the Minister whether he would say anything about what the Minister would do to the public employers. I actually asked the Minister a rather political question, namely whether the Minister is satisfied that the public employers have not delivered on the agreement reached in 2016 that public employers also have to provide more work placements. I hope the Minister will be able to answer that, even if you are sitting in a negotiating room. The second was in relation to the level. I just have to say that I believe that the corona epidemic is putting even more pressure on the need to respond to the criticism that came from the Reichsaudit and not to make an additional collection in 2021 of 700 million. kr., which is a huge liquidity drain, also in the companies that are already struggling.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030144706	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030144708	After all, in the case of Corona, we chose to hold a trialogue in which we were just debating the AUB and also ensuring that the assets that had been built were used. I really thought it was the right way forward, that we moved on quite quickly and that we are now giving ourselves the time to get the country a proper agreement in relation to the slightly longer-term, for which we, when we made the tripartite agreement back in May, made pointers. Then I would say that I am never satisfied if there are not enough apprenticeships. I'm not now, and I'll never be. It is more a question of me not going into where we are going with the negotiations that are. But by its very nature I am not satisfied as long as we do not get the manpower to be trained. It is, of course, devoted to all the work I have in the field of apprenticeship.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030144754	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030144756	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. I noticed, when I listened to the Minister's speech, that the Minister went back so far historically and said: we have always worked for this and fought against it. Then I thought, and now it's not, because I'm gonna guess about the minister's age that it's probably been a little while since the minister was 16 years old, and if the minister hasn't thought that we might think that system differently and look out the box. Because it also refers to how difficult it is for young people, and at the same time you just keep putting the blame almost on the business community, that is, they are not doing enough. It is actually a rather difficult situation for young people to have to go out and sell themselves and try to find a place to be and a job when you are 17-18 years old. Isn't there something that makes the Minister think that maybe we should think this system differently? And why is it that companies are pressing right now when we are in a huge economic crisis, which seems to be continuing?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030144900	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030144902	It is now my clear impression that the companies in the Danish Employers' Association, Dansk Industri, Dansk Byggeri, KL and Danske Regioner were satisfied with the agreement we made in the spring and also think that we are in a good position in relation to the negotiations we have now. So the latter must be at the rapporteur's own expense. I do not really know what is being referred to. It is, of course, tripartite negotiations that we have, and that means that the agreements that are concluded have also been nodded to by employers. Then I would say in relation to thinking out of the box: yes, I certainly do think we should. That's what we're talking about. And I think I've had incredibly many years to think about it, because it's been an incredibly long time since I was 16 years old. And what I have constantly opposed, and what I am trying to negotiate through in tripartite negotiations right now, is the conclusion of those ideas, namely that it is an incredibly bad idea to leave 16 to 17-year-olds with the main responsibility for obtaining training places. That is why we make sure that it is not the students who are going to hire an English teacher and a Danish teacher and a mathematics teacher in high school, but that we as a society make it available. And that is why it is also my starting point for the negotiations that schools should be responsible for ensuring that pupils have an apprenticeship and have it in sufficient time to know what they are going to do after the summer break. It is a completely new model, and that is also why it cannot be made in an afternoon, but has taken the time it has taken since we started the negotiations in September.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030145017	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030145020	Well, I will look forward to that, and I am glad to hear that there are some new thoughts in the negotiating room. What I meant about placing responsibility on companies all the time and criticising them is about the proposal that lies, at the rate that has to be paid now, where we think it is far too high. That is why we support the amendment that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030145042	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030145045	Well, Conservatives are free to have an attitude towards the level at which one lands in relation to the Tripartite. I do not think that is a commendable way to go. Well, I think we have a great model in Denmark, also in terms of pay. That is something that is being negotiated, and it may well be that Conservatives also have a view that the level of pay is too high. I would recommend that we do not interfere in the negotiated solutions in relation to those levels. And the level at which what lies here is then negotiated in the previous trialogue. And I think you should respect that because then you've found your right balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030145121	Then we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed. Into
ParlaMint-DK_20201030145138	The debate is open. Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030145203	Thank you. Just over a year ago, a broad political majority agreed to create the possibility of local student distribution rules for our upper secondary education. It was also our clear hope, our clear intention, that after we had made that law, we should negotiate a longer-term solution to the problem. It has by its very nature been difficult to complete the negotiations because of corona and other things that have meant that activity has been dragged elsewhere. Other variations have been drawn on the political system, but it is extremely important to ensure that we get secondary schools and upper secondary education with mixed pupil composition and that we ensure that there are offers of upper secondary education also in the thinner populated areas. So the task we should have solved after the bill we agreed on last year still needs to be resolved. On the other hand, we can only see that we do not reach the goal of the negotiations on how to ensure that we go to school with each other across social, cultural and ethnic backgrounds, how to ensure coherence and how to get to know each other better. We will not achieve a model of how to ensure that there are also youth education for the young people in the outermost regions of this country. That is why it is most responsible now to extend the temporary arrangement that we made last year. This is what the bill here proposes, i.e. in the next roll you also have the opportunity to make local student distribution rules. And, to put it mildly, the intention and ambition of the Social Democratic Party is to reach a broad agreement on how to ensure a longer-term solution for a wide range of education and training, which is mixed and balanced. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030145403	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030145407	Thank you so much. Yeah, a deal was made about a year ago. It was a really bad deal, and it is of course New Citizens and fortunately it is not part of because we are in favour of free secondary school elections. I have sometimes asked the Minister about the empirical basis for believing that forced distribution will work and I have not really been able to get an answer. In fact, there are some indications that the opposite is true; on the contrary, it does not work. Actually, there are some of these many reports that show that it actually has the opposite effect. I would really like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur has any empirical basis for thinking that forced distribution will have a positive effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030145451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030145455	With all due respect, I'm not actually a hundred percent. I am sure I know what the rapporteur refers to when there is forced distribution. In other words, the agreement which the rapporteur's party did not make last year and which we are now, if we may say so, prolonging allows local rules for the distribution of pupils to be drawn up, so that we can say locally in the regions in the various areas of admission: how do we ensure here that we have the right number of high schools? So how do we ensure that, if we may say so, high schools are out there, where the young people live, so that they have the possibility of a youth education and that there is, on the one hand, a mixed composition? I actually have a lot of respect for the local work. The task has been carried out, and then the Minister of Education or just the region has been signed up and said: we have found this solution. I think that is a sensible way of doing that. What we want to do in the longer term is to ensure that we have an even better mechanism for this, but, of course, not to take away local influence on how this is going to happen. That is why I am not quite sure what the rapporteur thinks has been forced or done in recent years and is very problematic.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030145607	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030145609	I just don't buy it. Of course the rapporteur knows what I mean. You tried to make the model you had in Aarhus and distribute it all over the country, so you could make these local distribution committees that would distribute the students differently. I was out visiting some very talented students from Niels Brock not long ago... they actually sit up here on the audience series... and these are some of the very professionally skilled students who are fighting these rules of forced distribution. I simply have to ask the rapporteur one more time. As I know, there is no empirical basis at all to believe that this distribution of young people around is not based on their free choice, but based solely on some ideological ideas that work. And I would just like the rapporteur to reply to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030145701	At least there is a clock that is empirical, and that is why I shall give the floor to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030145707	Now I am a resident and elected in Aarhus, so I definitely think that you should always look to Aarhus and be inspired. But I think the rapporteur is doing the other areas of the country a little wrong if you say that the distribution and distribution committee and the talk about how we make youth education balance is only something that has been done in Aarhus. I still do not have any clarity as to what the rapporteur thinks is awkward in the possibility of local rules for the distribution of pupils from last year, and in the fact that local agreement is reached on the distribution of young people who need training. And that, by the way, it is made available to all of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030145805	Thank you to the rapporteur. We must move forward in the rapporteur's line, and now it is Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030145817	Thank you, sir. President. The draft law that we are discussing today, L 52, should, in fact, have been unnecessary. For when we were dealing with L 61 last autumn, we basically made the same bill, but with a sunset clause after 1 year, because we had agreed that we had to find a proper and long-term solution to the challenges of small institutions in our outlying areas, which are greatly pressured by the fact that young years are getting smaller and smaller. In some parts of Denmark we are faced with the fact that up to one in three or four young people will simply disappear over the next few years. Not because they disappear into thin air, but because there has been a very large relocation from the area and because the birth rate has been down, and because we already know who it is that is going to apply to upper secondary education for the next few years they have been born. That is why we also know that the challenge we are facing today, and as the legislative proposal we are discussing today, does neither on nor off in relation to the fact that when we look forward to 2032, we will be missing approximately 25,000 pupils or what is equivalent to 900 high school classes. This means that we need to have a different system for our upper secondary education than what we know today. And that is also why we on the Left are going to support the bill called L 52, today, because basically it just pushes the sunset clause one more year, recognising that no agreement has been reached in the area of student distribution. Maybe there are a lot of people who say corona and want to use it as an excuse. This does not alter the fact that on the Left side we want a new model that both takes care of the small institutions in the outermost regions, but also takes a stand against what is called the ghetto high schools around our large cities with an ugly word. And no: the Left will not agree to a model that breaks free choice in the field of education. Because free choice is absolutely fundamental to making our youth education an active choice for young people too. It matters that you help to decide where to take your upper secondary education. This also means that we cannot see ourselves in the models that have been put forward by the Committee of Experts on Student Distribution, i.e.. the district model or the cluster model. This does not mean, however, that we do not believe that a long-term model can be created which ensures that in a combination of a new taximeter system and a new distribution system we will in future have a durable model that ensures both a good offer of education throughout the country and that can help to support a Denmark in balance, so that we do not have small institutions that will have to close, with the consequence that there are young people who get really, really far into an education. And when you are raised in an outer area, what I am, you know how far there is already today, and if some of the small institutions are going to close, you know that there will be even longer. That is why there is a two-part task when we have now adopted L 52 to postpone this sunset clause by an additional year. And that is to have a real, long-term solution that preserves free choice, but at the same time retains educational institutions throughout Denmark, so we have a Denmark in balance and also have a fight with the parallel societies that we unfortunately also see crystallized around youth education around the big cities. That work is under way and we will put our energy into the fact that it will not be necessary to stand here again in a year's time and move a sunset clause one more year. But it is also important to say that it will not be at the expense of free elections. For then we have not found a real solution in the field of youth education. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030150143	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030150154	Thank you so much. Well, that sounds really good, what the rapporteur of the Left says. In any case, some of it, namely the fact that the Left is in favour of free elections. That's just not what's in the agreement on these local distribution committees, of which the Left is also a part. And now I'm going to refer again to the talented students from Niels Brock and to the fact that they have actually sent me some really qualified questions, because they are the ones that this affects. And one of the things is that the local redistribution rules were made precisely in Aarhus, and redistribution meant that 40 students from the so-called exposed residential areas were handed in to other high schools in Aarhus, while Viby Gymnasium brought in 40 other students. But only 18 of the students stayed at Viby Gymnasium over half wanted to leave. And that's because they've been on a waiting list at other high schools and then taken the seat when a vacant seat arose. Does the rapporteur for the Left really believe that cohesion is strengthened by the fact that pupils have classmates who basically do not want to be there?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030150249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030150251	That is precisely why we need a long-term solution, because ad hoc solutions include: also expressed itself in Aarhus, where the Minister intervened and created a high school offer at Dollerupvej, although there were no pupils to do so, and where we have a discussion that both what was formerly called Langkær Gymnasium and is now part of AARHUS TECH, and Viby Gymnasium is not changing that there is always also within the existing distribution system and the free choice that we have today been institutions that have been tried out and institutions that have been tried out. And that is why it is naive to think that there will be the capacity to simply completely ignore the need for some sort of allocation mechanisms. It is there today, it was there 10 years ago, and it will also be forward-looking. But it has to be better solutions than those we have, among other things. have seen about Aarhus, but also the lack of solutions, we among others. look at the western part of Copenhagen, which means that we have some institutions which have been enormously polarised and which basically consist of students with a different ethnic background and thus help to enhance the image of parallel societies in Denmark. And that is no use, and that is why we want a long-term agreement that is on top of free elections and the right of pupils to choose the education that is right for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030150403	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030150405	Once again, the free choice sounds very good when the Left says so, but that is just not what the Left does. For example: This agreement, which the Left is in favour of extending, i.e. this agreement on these local distribution committees, makes it clear that the four choices are being made: it makes it clear that some of these students are being deprived of the free choice to choose these ghetto schools as well. Because in the free elections it is also the fact that we can opt out of something, and I think it is a very strange attitude to have as a liberal party, that we are in favour of some children being forced into an immigrant gymnasium, and that some of these uneducated immigrant boys are forced to say what is perhaps never supposed to be in high school, so that they are forced into a well-functioning gymnasium. Does the Left really believe that this is the right way to go? And on what is the Left based?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030150454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030150455	What is real is that Mrs Mette Thiesen and New Citizens have resigned from the negotiations on how to deal with the parallel societies that are and with the ghetto schools, which are unfortunately different places in the country. This is precisely why we have entered a negotiating room because we must both ensure that the institutions do not consist of a majority of young people with a non-Western background who basically do not meet Danish society and make Danish friends on their youth education. However, the task is also to ensure that there are youth education courses throughout the country, and there is a very large number of places where there is a distribution mechanism that is basically about ensuring that the 80% that is left in one area is not suddenly completely without a training offer because there is 20% applying to the nearest city. And these balances must also be dealt with in respect of free elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030150540	Thank you to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby from the Left. We must move forward in the rapporteur's line with Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030150548	Thank you for the floor. In the Danish People's Party we are fundamentally opposed to quotas for pupils at different secondary schools. We also think that the law passed last year on this emergency resolution law that was supposed to fill a gap was bad, but we agreed to it because we could see that a temporary solution was needed, that is, that a bad solution was better than no solution. But now we have come to where we find it difficult to continue to say yes to a bad solution, because we risk it being a sleeping pillow; it is going to be a risk that we will not get a lasting and good solution. So we see it as a problem to have to support this scheme, which we have never thought was the right one. What we think is right is to make a solution that lasts for a long time, which can protect small rural gymnasiums and which can stop the traffic we have in some cities where we see Middle Eastern students, Muslim students, travel past one high school after another to gather in one gymnasium, after which all Danes leave high school and high school risk breaking down because there are not enough applicants. That is what we saw happening at Langkaer Gymnasium, and we do not want that to happen anywhere else. We want to preserve the high school structure. That is why we have long ago put forward a proposal on district gymnasiums to ensure that pupils can get the education they want, but not in all cases can be allowed to decide which institution they want to go to only when it is necessary to go further away in order to get exactly the training they want. This will ensure that you cannot, as a Muslim student, travel past one high school after another to arrive at a certain high school, which can then be dominated by a Middle Eastern culture, which will make the Danish students not want to be there, and then the high school loses its income base and you lose part of the secondary school structure. So in order to preserve the Danish high school structure, we need to create a long-term system. As I have said, we have proposed district gymnasiums and we look forward very much to the convening of negotiations where we can talk further about it and hopefully very soon find a long-term solution. But we see it as a very big problem to continue to support schemes that we have never really liked. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030150849	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030150852	Thank you so much. And thank you to Mrs Krarup. What Mrs Marie Krarup says that the Danish People's Party wants is, in principle, a dispute with free elections if you're going to make these districts. When I spoke to the students at Niels Brock, there was actually a young man who told me that he was just living in an area with one of these ghetto high schools and that he wanted to have a proper education. He was ambitious, he was capable of action, and therefore he had sought something further away to get a high school where the professional level was in order, and where you were not disturbed by all of this stuff like I said before, uneducated immigrant boys. That story really impressed me, and that's what I can hear from the Danish People's Party. Does the Danish People's Party really think that we should have a fight with the free choice in high school?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030150944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030150946	So, when I hear the rapporteur's many questions in the Chamber today, I question whether the rapporteur has actually understood what this is about. After all, we are trying to maintain a high school structure in Denmark. Does the rapporteur think that it is a good idea for Muslim students to travel past a large number of high schools to gather in one high school so as to ensure that there is a dominant Middle Eastern culture, after which the students living in the area will be forced on the Middle Eastern culture? Does the rapporteur really think this is a good idea? It's not. Well, we have to do the high school structure in a way so we don't get any high schools that break down. For example: In Hvidovre there are approx. 60% immigrants in high school, while in the area there are only 20%. This means that people flock to a high school because they want a Middle Eastern culture. We must put an end to this because the Danish students are fleeing those who have the resources to do so. Those who do not have the resources to do so will remain seated and may be in danger of having a bad experience and a poor education. We must protect them. Besides, I'm gonna say... well, I can look at the clock, that I can't get any further here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030151100	But then Mrs Mette Thiesen has the opportunity to ask a question again.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030151102	That is just not what is being done with the proposal made by Mrs Krarup. What you do with that proposal is you force Danish students to go to these ghetto schools, because if you make a district model, you shut them inside that area. For new citizens, freedom of choice is really important, and free choice lies in both being able to choose, but indeed also being able to choose from. Then you can choose those colleges from where there is a clear over-representation of non-western immigrants, and then you can choose them to where you know the professional level etc. It's okay. But we are always ready to negotiate that you have to raise the level and everything else, because high school is not for everyone. Unfortunately, there has been a tendency to believe this for many years, but the district model that Mrs Marie Krarup is proposing will unfortunately end up punishing and not benefiting Danish students.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030151154	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030151156	But the rapporteur has so completely misunderstood that; apparently the rapporteur has not got to grips with it. Because that's not what this is about. What this is about is that free secondary school elections are used to allow Muslim students to travel past many high schools to gather in one high school, where we can then have a Middle Eastern domination, so that the Danish students suffer. So it is simply not true what is being said. Most Muslim dominated high schools are not located in areas where there is a Middle Eastern or Muslim domination. So that's not true. One can greatly strengthen the high school structure by saying that one should choose the high school nearby, because the so-called ghetto schools are not Muslim dominated because they are in ghettos. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030151243	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. Then it is Mrs Kathrine Ollldag from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030151250	Thank you, President. It is an exquisite pleasure to fill in for our rapporteur on this bill, Anne Sophie Callesen, and that is probably because it is a legislative proposal that is very close to my heart. I grew up on the same edges as Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby and now live in South Zealand, where the number of children is rattling down. So this is very much a very, very topical, serious discussion which we in the Radical Left naturally take seriously. Let us return to what this proposal is about: it is about extending the temporary solution for the distribution of pupils, i.e. the so-called distribution committee in the regions' ability to make local rules for the distribution of pupils, i.e. distribution by criteria other than distance, which is otherwise the criterion, and that is a good thing. In a liberal heart, at least in my own country, it is extremely good that this trade is carried out locally, where the conditions are known, because the local rules for the distribution of pupils can be used for the purpose of solving or meeting challenges of a professional, educational or social nature which are related to the composition of pupils in one or more schools in the area of the distribution committee. The distribution committee shall be able to suggest that the composition of pupils in one or more institutions in the area of the distribution committee raises professional, educational or social challenges. It is in the temporary solution that institutions experiencing problems may ask the Committee on Distribution to lay down local rules for the allocation of pupils. That's good enough. However, it is difficult for an institution to set the example of a school with poor search or skewed pupil composition. In our view, it will be self-enhancing and will not solve the basic problems. That is why the Radical Left has long been pressing for a lasting solution to the challenges of student distribution, and we are therefore very sorry that we now have to extend the temporary solution. We didn't have to. We should have negotiated a settlement in the last assembly, Corona or not. Or we could have started before corona. As part of the agreement to extend the temporary solution here, we have therefore also made provision for a lasting solution to be negotiated this autumn. For the time being, it has only become initial probes of the terrain, and we are therefore looking forward to being called for real negotiations rather today than tomorrow. We're ready. However, although we are impatient to find a lasting solution, we have to recognise that it is not possible to reach it next school year, and that is why we naturally support the draft law here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030151536	Thank you, we say to Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday. No one has signed up so that the rapporteur is free from further indictment. Then it's Mrs. Astrid Carøe from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030151603	Thank you. We need a new long-term solution for the distribution of pupils in high schools. I think that a great many of us in here can agree on that, and I also believe that we are now aware of the challenges. We need to secure the small secondary schools in the smaller cities and we need to solve the challenge of polarisation, which in the SF's case is mainly about meeting and going to school across social classes. These are challenges that call for different solutions in different parts of the country, and these are challenges that we need to address if it is not to mean school closures and a more divided society. But the postponement of the sunset clause has been necessary because of corona. That is why we support the proposal. But there is no point in this if negotiations are not speeded up soon. We would also like to see this happening in this autumn, so that we do not have to postpone the change again in one year's time. In the SF, we also believe that it is important that a new model for the distribution of pupils is linked to a change in the taximeter system and that it is negotiated at the same time. We hope the Minister will also take the initiative on this. With that said, we can support the bill and look forward to negotiations on both pupil distribution and taximeters by next school year, so that we do not have to stand here again and postpone the sunset clause.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030151734	Mrs Mette Thiesen has asked for a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030151737	Thank you so much. I just wanted to hear from the SF's rapporteur what empirical basis the rapporteur has for thinking that this distribution of pupils will benefit. Because I assume that if you want to make such a big deal about which you are talking about now in high school, you have a really, really strong professional basis for making this change, that is to say a break with the free choice, which you are in full swing with, and of which this agreement is also part. What kind of basis does SF have to believe this is gonna work?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030151815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030151817	I think I would like to start by emphasising that today there is also a distribution of pupils. So do we today. Today, too, there is not entirely free choice. For SF it is extremely important that there is, of course, a free choice of education. And then I think I would like to emphasise that the free choice is also about maintaining high schools in small towns, because they risk closing if we do not do something. For the many students who cannot travel far, the free choice is also that we are still offering that offer. We have student distribution today. There is no freedom of choice today. We need to look at these rules so that we can make up our minds that we risk some small high schools in the smaller towns closing down and that there will be increased polarisation in our educational institutions in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030151902	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030151903	Now the rapporteur says this with increased polarisation. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur has anything to build on, that is why it would necessarily be good for these things to be mixed up. We are always in New Citizens' super-ready to go in and make some good policy that gives you much more opportunity to settle in our really lovely rural areas. There you can see, for example, that you are paying a really, really high registration fee, and this is mainly in Jutland. So SF can help with New Citizens to remove registration fees, so you can also commute as a family to a much greater extent if you want to settle in your own areas. But the empirical basis and professional basis for believing that this distribution model works, I still need answers from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030151950	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030151950-2	For SF it is extremely important that there is free choice of education in Denmark. Of course, you have to be able to choose which education you go on. But we're gonna have to hold our hands under these outskirts. We have to end the polarization. And then I think I just want to stress that when you go on a youth education course, you are typically under 18 and typically do not have a driving licence to drive a car. You might be able to drive a moped. But that's why it's more important to look at bus departures. For us, it is extremely important that people are not forced to drive a very, very long time by bus to go on their youth education. That is precisely why it is important that we keep our hands under the little high schools so that people do not have to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030152005	We thank Mrs Astrid Carøe. Then it is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030152013	How wonderful it would have been if today we had to deal with a draft law on new rules for distribution of a permanent nature in upper secondary education. I can hear from colleagues here that for many it would have been a relief if we had come this far. The problems are great, and it is urgent to resolve them, and it is urgent in several ways. It is urgent in relation to a number of smaller colleges, especially in the outermost regions, which are severely pressured because there is a decline in the number of pupils and therefore a poorer economy. This means, of course, that the way in which the smaller colleges can be run is more difficult to set up courses of study and that it is more difficult to secure a broad spectrum of attractive electives. And that is among other things. Therefore, that we see that many students are seeking away from the smaller colleges. Another problem is the whole social bias, which also has the secondary effect of ethnic distortion in our high schools. We see it in the metropolitan area, we see it in the Aarhus area, and several of the rapporteurs have mentioned the problems that it causes. For years there has been an appeal, especially from high schools in the metropolitan area and the Aarhus area, that we had to solve this so that we could create a greater diversity in the composition of students. It can't take much longer until we find a permanent solution. Are we in the middle of negotiations? I think it was said from up here that we are not doing them. But it can be said that these are negotiations that we are running into. I really think we are, because we have had some excellent discussions on it too. I actually think that we will be able to hear that it is not all, but part of us to come up with common solutions. We can have very different views about it and also very different ways of describing the problems. Mrs Marie Krarup and I are of course very much in agreement that district gymnasiums can be a good solution, but I would like to address it a little differently. But I actually believe that we can find a sensible solution across the parties, both to ensure that you can run a high school with a safe student base in the outermost regions, and to ensure that we can have high schools with a diverse composition of pupils in the metropolitan area, the Aarhus area and elsewhere where this is a problem. As I have said, we have brought it into the negotiations that we believe that district gymnasiums can be a real solution. We do not think it is epoch-making to think that it is good if students go to a high school near where they live. We really think this is a sensible solution. We do not think there should be an iron ring around it. We believe that opportunities should be created for substantive choices to be made. There must be a free choice of training, stx, htx etc. But in addition to that, I think if you want to apply in terms of content for certain courses of study, you have to be able to break a district structure. However, the basic idea that pupils go to school in an area where they live is a sensible starting point. We are very willing to discuss other models too. I hear that we agree to address the problem, and I actually think that is a very good start to try to find common solutions as well. So it is really a pity that we have not come this far and that we are only about to start the negotiations, but we have a hope in the Enhedslisten that we can find solutions together. And until we have found them, it would be reckless to continue with the agreement we made last year and give the regions the opportunity to lay down local distribution rules. We have, strictly speaking, also made an agreement on this. That is why, of course, Enhedslisten can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030152454	Thank you, Mr. Enhedslisten. Jakob Silver Mound. Then we can move on in the rapporteur's line. Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030152506	Thank you. It is then a law amending a law amending a law on amendment. And I really hope that we will not stand here again and get a new law on change. Because it's urgent that we solve this in this area, both in relation to taximeter grants and student distribution. As has been said in several places, we have a falling number of pupils, at least towards 2030, several outermost regions are under pressure, and at the same time we have some huge challenges in a 10-12 high school with a rather biased student distribution. We need to take political responsibility and solve this. So it's really a shame that we haven't gotten any further. We had a set meeting soon, yes, I don't know a month ago or more, and there's nothing on the calendar just now. So if we come all the way over in January, we may have to have a new set meeting, otherwise we will not remember what we have said at the first set meeting, because in the meantime there are other things going on. It might be very good to get a priority list of what we have to do in this whole area of eud and on stx and on the important things. Because it is our youth that we are talking about, and so we have a huge challenge to get our young people into the education system. Some 140,000 young people have no youth education. I'm really worried about that. So we have to deal with these important problems we have and also ensure that there is a training offer for young people all over the country. So now that we do not have a solution to it right now, we must support a law amending a law amending a law on amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030152647	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030152650	Thanks for the speech. Not long ago, the Conservative People's Party ran a big facebook campaign with some photos of a child, as far as I remember, sitting so almost chained to something, and with the text: Stop forced distribution! Now the Conservative People's Party is voting for an extension of this legislation, which basically opens the way for forced distribution and allows for forced distribution. What does the Conservative People's Party really mean? Are we in favour of free elections, or are we in favour of forced distribution? Because it gets a little insecure when you say one thing and then you do something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030152731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030152733	I don't think we do. After all, we are in the process of negotiations, and that is where we have said what our position is, and it is, of course, that we very much want free elections. We are not in favour of what has been proposed in the report by experts about a so-called cluster model or down to a district model. We are not in favour of this. There's not a hundred percent today. There is, of course, a restriction on freedom of choice; there is, to a large extent, a restriction on the number of secondary schools. You can't all seek freedom. There is a capacity ceiling and there are also restrictions on distance criteria, so within certain rules there is a free choice. We also think it is very important that we keep a free choice from the profile gymnasiums or commercial schools that we have, so that if you are Fatima from Albertslund, you can read at hhx at Nørrebro, an elite place, or take a music education at Aurehøj or elsewhere. I really hope that we can hold on to the strong profiling institutions, so when we go ahead in the negotiations, we will also, where this makes sense, stick to the strong free choice. However, we also recognise that there are some areas where we have some major challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030152835	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030152840	Yeah, and that's really good. The only problem is that we are now voting in favour of extending a law that is being forced to distribute. So you say one thing and you do another, and I think that's really a shame. Another point was raised: the rapporteur also refers to the fact that students must be mixed up in order to do away with these ghetto schools. I would also just like to hear from the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party on the basis of which it is based: what scientific empirical basis is there to believe that it will benefit the pupils that they will be distributed out to high schools in the way that has been proposed?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030152917	Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030152918	What we have seen is that some high schools at the professional level have gone all the way down and that there has actually been student flight from some. That is why there are some high schools, for example. Viby Gymnasium and Langkaer Gymnasium, as some students are forced to attend high schools where they cannot even get the professional lines they want. We're not interested in that. There we can see that it has had such a damaging effect on certain colleges that the professional level goes down completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030152947	Thank you to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. Now it's actually Mrs. Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030153014	Thank you. It was also really just because I was a little surprised because the Conservative rapporteur just mentioned some examples that she then approves with this bill, so this is about not getting that high school... Well, that's what it is. With this bill, the parties to the agreement, that is. all parties of the Folketing, except New Citizens, to postpone the sunset clause and thus extend the temporary law on local distribution rules in high school. In new citizens, we are strongly opposed to the fact that the rules on the distribution of pupils adopted almost a year ago are now going to last another year. We are, because it is the obvious abolition of free elections that is now to be extended. The reason why the possibility of local rules for the distribution of pupils has been introduced in the first place is that high schools are to function as some form of integration tool for unintegrable foreigners. It is simply hoped that children or young people will be forced to take part in high schools, and it is sad that this is happening. In particular, it is sad because there is no evidence that it should solve anything either to distribute immigrant boys to well-functioning colleges or to distribute well-functioning Danish pupils to immigrant tongue problem gymnasiums. I have previously had the Minister for Children and Education in consultation where I have asked for the evidence on which the idea of forced distribution is based, and the Minister may be guilty of an answer. In fact, the evidence available points to the opposite. In primary school, it is known that, for example, migrant pupils, who are distributed to primary schools with Danish children, are more distrustful and perform more professionally than if they could stay in the primary schools where they themselves wanted to go. We also know from studies that immigrant students separate even in high schools. So it is not the case that you can just stuff young people into a certain high school class and then solve the problems automatically, on the contrary. By distributing problems in several high schools, you do not create solutions, but you create more problems. The successful high schools and the successful students are strained. In fact, this whole project of forced distribution reveals that it is believed that social coercion can solve foreign problems that go much deeper. And the problems of foreigners are, of course, the politicians' fault; it is not the job of Danish young people to solve them. It is simply not right that the Danish high school students of the future should pay the price for decades of failed immigration policy. In New Citizens we insist that Danish high school students should have a really free choice to choose and choose from when they choose high school. That is why, of course, we do not support the extension of this law and the postponement of the sunset clause. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030153258	Thank you, we say to Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. No one has signed up for short remarks and, as the Liberal Alliance does not have a representative, I shall give the floor to the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030153313	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the parties that support this bill for postponing the sunset clause. I would like to make it clear, and it has been debated relatively much in the media, that the government is not in favour of a cluster model and that the government is not in favour of a district model. We believe that there must be other ways to bridge the gap between the concerns of the debate on the distribution of pupils. We are talking about free elections, and I think it is important that we talk about what we are talking about. Because there are no courses in Denmark where there is a free choice. There is not a single type of education in Denmark where there is free choice. Because it's all about whether there's enough capacity. In other words, there are the number of places that are available, and they must then be distributed in some way, and on the basis of that the students are then taken up. And that means that there are plenty of courses where there is free choice to apply But from there and to get the place, there is therefore in most places a way which can either be about distance or for higher education grades. This is how you have different ways of finding out whether the student can be admitted or not. In the area of primary education, it is the municipality and, ultimately, the head of the school who decides whether the pupil can attend a school located outside the district. So it's just to say that the free choice thing doesn't mean that you automatically just get a seat. And I think it's just important to get a divorce in this. After all, this proposal is primarily about postponing a sunset clause, and it has been asked from up here from the platform whether the government is prepared to discuss the taximeter system as well, when we discuss student distribution. We have made an agreement with each other on the parties of the Danish Parliament, except for the New Citizens' Party, which is why I just want to reiterate that commitment. We have an agreement on that. We made an agreement on this in June of this year, and of course we stand by it. These things are connected, and it is clear that when you go in and change the way in which the youth education structures and the distribution of pupils are, it is natural to look at the economy it is tied up with. In relation to the problems we are facing, it is absolutely necessary that we have a look at the economy. I think it was the rapporteur of the Left who said this about the projection of what is going on with the pupils, and unfortunately it is not going that way, but the other way. This means that if we do not do something now, we risk that a stripe outskirts gymnasium will have a quite difficult time with their economy, and therefore there is good reason to both look at the student distribution and of course also at the underlying taximeter system in a way, so that we can make sure that there are still educations to get around the whole of Denmark. Back to the debate on free choice: we have to remember that, and I think that is such an unfamiliar part of the debate that one can say that in relation to, for example, the young people who live in Fjerritslev and who would like to go to Fjerritslev Gymnasium, there is not really a free choice if it is the case that Fjerritslev Gymnasium is closed and therefore one is forced to travel very far by bus to go to school every day. Then the free choice to go to Fjerritslev Gymnasium is gone because the high school is closed. To talk about the free choice of upper secondary school today, I would also just like to say that the students are simply seeking strategically. So, if we look at the metropolitan area, it's over 20% that doesn't even indicate what their first choice is, for fear of being put in the back of the queue for their second choice. So it's just to say that I think we should leave some of those myths about free choice lying around and having a real discussion about how it can be done to get something together, where the students, by their very nature, should be able to indicate where they would like to go, where, by their very nature, they should be able to apply for admission to the places they would like, but where it is also so, as with all other parts of our education system, that there are some mechanisms, including whether there is any capacity at all, the place they have sought and other things that apply, in relation to where they can then be admitted. For me, it is also very important that you can of course choose for yourself whether you want to take a stx or a htx or a hhx. These will be the things we need to discuss with each other. However, thank you for your support for this bill and I am also looking forward to moving forward in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030153722	Mrs Mette Thiesen has a comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030153725	Thank you so much. And thank you for the Minister's speech. I would just like to ask the Minister one last time whether the Minister has now found the empirical basis for believing that this distribution of pupils will work positively.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030153742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030153744	Well, I'm gonna have to ask again: Does what work?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030153748	So I would like to ask whether the Minister thinks that it will promote the integration which the Minister often talks about, whether it will promote professionalism, whether it will promote all these different things. I would like the Minister's answer to that. Then I would actually like to say, in connection with the fact that the Left mentioned something that we did not want to go to the negotiating table: yes, we would actually like to, we had actually agreed that we would like to take part in these high school negotiations, but we have not actually been allowed to do so. And there I could at least understand from the Minister earlier that it is because all parties must agree on it if there are any new ones to be admitted. And then you can think about who it is that doesn't want us to come in. That is why I have put it down, as it were. But I have also called the Minister in consultation because I need to have this empirical basis for why it is considered that forced distribution is a good solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030153841	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030153843	But neither do we. So the rapporteur puts words in our mouths, which is why it is a little difficult to answer the question. Now I have clarified that the issue is whether it works on integration, professionalism and well-being. What is the reason why we think it is important to ensure that there is a healthy pupil composition is that we want a society where we know each other crosswise. We think this is important for the cohesion of a society and we think it is important to avoid parallel societies. And we believe that the education system should be two things: teach the children to read and count, the professional things, and then it should form us in relation to being able to commit ourselves in the society of which we should all be a part.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030153922	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030153923	Thank you for the Minister's commitment that we should also include taximeter negotiations and distribution negotiations, as it has been hoped and as we agreed on just before the summer break. Just one comment: let us say that one grows up in the blocks where Danish is never spoken, and in a family where Mom and Dad may only be able to commit themselves in a language other than Danish and are outside the labour market. If you go to a day care centre where you only meet other children who have grown up in the same block and then go to a primary school where there is also, if not, 99 per cent. Then over 90 percent. with a different ethnic background, and then comes to a youth education where you also do not meet Denmark, then the probability that we have cemented parallel societies is just huge. I would therefore just like to say that I agree with the Minister that when we talk about youth education, we are not only talking about educational institutions; we are also talking about educational institutions which form young people for the rest of our lives. And we know that many have the friendships they get during their youth education with the rest of their lives. That is why it matters and it is not because we have to split everything up and not because we have to impose benefits, but if we want better integration in Denmark and a fight with the parallel societies we also take hold with the institutions in Denmark that, unfortunately, have become completely skewed in relation to the distribution of pupils.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030154041	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030154043	Thank you. That was also the background to the agreement we reached with each other on parallel societies in terms of day institutions and distribution there. I fully agree that it is crucial that we should be cross-checked with each other, among other things. to avoid parallel societies. I have also been extremely concerned about social control. We have previously received a report on social control at Viby Gymnasium, and I simply think that is extremely worrying. So it is both a question of getting to know each other crosswise and also what was said about parallel societies. It is important that you enter a youth environment where you can be allowed to define your own course of life without being subject to the judgment of others on how to choose your youth life. And that requires diversity, which some of the high schools unfortunately do not have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030154134	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030154136	Thank you. For the Left, freedom of choice is fundamental in relation to youth education, but also generally in relation to our entire education system. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister something. Now I made a description of what we unfortunately see of parallel societies, which also play a role in youth education. Does the Minister agree that there may be institutions which have become so unbalanced in terms of distribution that one has to start over, perhaps even completely shut down an institution, because one does not have to get into a situation of allocation where so many people have to be forced into an institution against their free choice? In other words, the consequence must ultimately be that the institution should not be there, in respect of the fact that we actually want to support the pupils' free choice?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030154219	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030154221	In any case, I would say that we have seen this happen with great success in the field of primary education, in other words that in some places schools where the composition of pupils had become too biased have been closed, simply to start over in the second framework. In other places you have seen that, as it were, you have condensed all the way up, in all the classes, that is, the places where you have been able to find methods for it. In some places schools have been brought together to make it go up to primary school. I am completely open to discussing the various tools that are needed, because in my heart of this, we have to insist that the school has precisely the two legs: the professional and then the educational, which the rapporteur also emphasizes. I simply do not think we can offer that in environments where it is too crooked.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030154304	Thank you to the Minister for Children and Education. No one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed. In this way, we can wish the members of the Committee on Children's and Education and the Minister an excellent weekend and switch a little into the team.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030154339	In order to justify the request, I should like to invite Mr. Carl Valentin from SF up here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030154403	Thank you. After all, this is a very serious situation with corona in Denmark, not only in the population, but also in the Danish mink crews, and three weeks ago we called the Socialist People's Party for this question debate. We had hoped that it would be a matter of urgency. That was not practically possible, but we are glad that we are getting the question now. On the day we called, we called a meeting with Kåre Mølbak of the Statens Serum Institute, who had stressed the seriousness of the situation: Not only did the infection in the Danish mink herds contribute to the infection in Denmark; there was also a mutation risk which could have an impact on the effectiveness of future vaccines. We take this very, very seriously in the SF I also know that you do in the government and that's why we wanted to discuss it here. It has to be said that the virus is spreading at enormous speed. I get a small notification on my phone every time there are new infected numbers, and today 182 farms in Denmark are now affected by covid-19, and this increases the mutation risk for every farm that is affected. We would therefore very much like to have this question debate in the Folketing, and we look forward to it very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030154534	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin in this round. The next speaker will be the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities to answer the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030154548	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the SF for this request. It is true, as the SF rapporteur says, that unfortunately we are also in a rather serious situation as regards corona when it comes to our mink production in Denmark. So, of course, I welcome the opportunity to discuss this in the Chamber. And I shall seek here to answer the questions that the SF has asked. After all, the health authorities have assessed that mink herds potentially represent a large reservoir of coronavirus with the risk of further mutations and that the continued development of the mink variant of the covid-19 virus could pose a potential danger to public health in Denmark. And it is based on professional assessments carried out by the Danish Veterinary Consortium, which is a collaboration between the University of Copenhagen and the Statens Serum Institute. They have indicated that new mutations of coronavirus occur in the Danish mink herds and that so far several virus variants related to mink have been observed. Dansk Veterinær Konsortium also states that I quote it as being likely that the spike-protein-based vaccines will have some effect on the spike-protein changes so far demonstrated, i.e. mutations seen among mink. However, the continued spread of covid-19 among minks raises a general concern about further development of mutations of covid-19 in minks, with the risk of future public health effects. Quote out. The Danish Veterinary Consortium further states that per year 3 September 2020 is a total of 320 different vaccine candidates under development. The vast majority of vaccine candidates specifically aim to develop antibodies aimed at this so-called spike protein in the virus, but there are also other vaccine candidates based on inactivated viruses and living weakened viruses that provide a broader immune response. There have not yet been sufficient studies to conclude finally whether a vaccine effect is expected to be weakened, but there is a risk of this. So, although at this stage it cannot be said with certainty what the significance of the observed mutations specifically has for public health, the mutations give rise to general concern. The current situation also shows that the spread of viruses between humans and mink continues. The epidemiology of the Danish Veterinary Consortium shows that the most likely cause of infection between mink farms is introduction via people associated with mink production. No risk factors other than herd size and distance have been identified with certainty, but it cannot be excluded that other, but currently unknown, routes of infection can contribute to further spread of infection to society, so possible routes of infection are still being investigated. In response to the question of precautions, we in Denmark have taken a number of measures to contain the covid-19 infection spread in Danish mink herds. This includes measures focusing on the use of protective equipment, frequent testing, intensified monitoring, contact and infection detection and behavior among people handling mink and their household members. Similarly, any herd found infected with or suspected of being infected with covid-19 is subject to public supervision. Public supervision means, among other things, that animals should not be introduced into or left the herds and that animals should be kept isolated. On 1 October, it was also decided to move to a strategy in which mink herds infected with covid-19 and mink herds situated within a radius of 7.8 km from an infected herd had to be killed in the future, as it has unfortunately to be noted that the measures taken so far do not adequately prevent further spread of infection. As far as the global situation is concerned, the FDA has information that the presence of covid-19 in mink has been found at present in the Netherlands, the United States, Sweden and Spain. We have only limited knowledge of epidemiology and strategies in those countries, but we are aware that the covid-19 continues to spread among minks in the Netherlands and the United States. There is no common legislation or guidelines for combating covid-19 in mink in the EU or worldwide, but the World Organisation for Animal Health, the OIE, has initiated and recommended several actions, including: includes the sampling, testing and reporting of covid-19 in animals and recommendations concerning international trade in animals and products. And the EU supports the actions of the OIE. Generally speaking, global knowledge of epidemiology and control strategy as well as data on the occurrence of covid-19 in mink is limited. The Government's approach to the eradication of covid-19 in mink herds is based on advice from the Danish Food Authority, the Statens Serum Institut, the Danish Health Authority and the University of Copenhagen, which continuously follows developments and keeps informed of changes in OIE recommendations and actions, and which are also regularly in dialogue with other countries about their handling of covid-19 in mink. Should this lead to new knowledge or proposals for action, we will of course address them, including whether it should give rise to a change in the Danish strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030155225	Thank you. One brief remark from the rapporteurs is now available, and Mr. Erling Bonnesen asked. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030155231	Thank you. We fully agree that this is a very serious situation, so the question could also be what the Minister's comments and brief explanation are about the government coming so violently, can we say, afterwards? When we have seen the spread of infection starting in North Jutland and around, even though this is a new challenge, you could have expected that you could have dealt with it differently. What is the Minister's immediate overall assessment at the present time of the fact that so much has been left behind and has come more and more continuously?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030155309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030155310	I also believe that the rapporteur of the Left has observed that the whole world has come behind the coronasmite. After all, it is an infection that is spreading and that we do not have all the answers to how it spreads. I can't say that there's any sector or anywhere where you can say that you're at the forefront of the disease development here. This also applies to the handling of mink infection. The government has done everything we could at the rate that was possible to prevent, but of course also to stop the infection among mink. And that is also why the government is following completely the recommendations that come from the health authorities in relation to what we are doing to stop the infection as soon as possible, so that it does not spread to healthy mink, but also most importantly so that it does not spread out into the population.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030155411	Thank you. The next one to make a brief comment is Mr Seligman. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030155412	Thank you. First of all, I think it's a little crazy to hear sir. Erling Bonnesen talks about the fact that the government has come behind in dealing with this, when the Left is the party that has spoken at the very most about stopping this killing mink. So I don't think you have so much to wear. But my question to the Minister really follows on from how serious this situation is, including the descriptions that the Minister also gives in relation to the possibility of mutation. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he will do everything in his power to ensure that as few minks as possible are infected with the corona virus, to ensure that the mutation risk is also as small as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030155456	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030155457	Well, it's quite clear that this is primarily about the fact that the infection is among everything, too many minks. We are talking millions, and that is a very, very worrying number. These are individual animals, which can thus potentially infect society and of course also other minks, so it is of course absolutely essential that we do everything we can to ensure that the infection does not spread. So, yes, the rapporteur can be absolutely sure of that, so it is our starting point to ensure that we use all the methods available to stop the infection as soon as possible. That is why we are following the strategy recommended by the health authorities, where we kill infected herds, but also uninfected herds in a perimeter around the infected herds.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030155600	Thank you. In this round there is only one short comment, so further brief comments must be saved for later. The next one is sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030155608	Thank you. Then I can continue a little along the same lines, because it is true that it is absolutely crucial that we get our hands on this before the infection spreads too much. And we can now see that the infection is almost out of control when we are talking about mink at least. I would therefore just like to hear from the Minister what has actually been the reason for changing the strategy from the precautionary strategy that was first to the containment strategy that was adopted and which has then been applied. And I would also like to know what the background is for not responding as early as September, when it became clear that this risk in relation to the mutations of the spike protein occurred, where the Statens Serum Institut and DK-VET pointed it out. Why was there no response at that time? For the sooner we had intervened, the fewer farms had been involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030155707	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030155709	I would not agree with the rapporteur that we can talk about a situation where the infection is out of control. Well, yes, if we can talk about corona being generally out of control, then it's also relevant to the mink industry, because we don't have all the answers to how we stop this infection, either in terms of how it spreads in society or, for that matter, how it spreads among mink. But it is 180 farms that are now infected, out of a total of 1,100 throughout the country. And we've got that under control, that's where the infection is, and we're doing everything we can to deal with it and stop it. Why was strategy changed? But it did so on the basis of the guidelines we have received from the health authorities, where we first developed a precautionary strategy because we did not have knowledge; we had not received enough advice from the health authorities to deal with the first farms that were infected. That's why we knocked them down. Then there was another guide from the health authorities, which we then followed. It has then produced a result that continued to be infected, and that is why we have changed the strategy again. So it follows the information and guidance we have received from the health authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030155826	Then it's Mrs. Lise Bech.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030155827	Thank you. We just came from a meeting, a little short meeting before we went down here. At that meeting, veterinary director Hanne Larsen, and she has just established for us at this meeting that mink becomes immune to the virus strain that they have been infected with. That's why it's just logic to say, we're frying those farms now. And the fact that it is the mink virus that is contagious is a bit of a duck that travels around with, because it has come to light that in fact only four people throughout the country are infected with this mink virus, four people who have nothing to do with mink farms. So don't blow it up to the big one.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030155923	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030155925	I don't think anyone wants to blow it up any bigger than it is. But it is huge when we have a million animals that are infected and where there is a risk that the infection will spread to healthy mink, but also into society. We simply have to take this deeply, deeply seriously, and that is what we are doing. And it is true that what has been observed so far does not mean that there are no more people, that at least four people are infected in addition to employees, where there are 179 who have been infected with this covid variation. That is enough for us, at least on the part of the government, to say: it shows that it is contagious in society, and it is also contagious outside those circles where employees, owners or breeders are involved. That is why we are taking all the measures to ensure that it does not spread further.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030160030	Thank you. Then it's mr. Egil Hulgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030160033	Thank you. I would also like to drill a little bit into this with the risk that the covid-19 variants in mink pose a particular risk in relation to the upcoming vaccine. First of all, we need to look at what a vaccine can do. It can to some extent protect against infection by covid-19. The FDA has set a limit of 50 per cent, which means that it is not a 100 per cent protection that we are talking about. When we talk about the people who are then infected with the covid-19 of a variant from a mink, is there a special course of illness there? I haven't heard of that either. So the fact that the covid-19 variant from a mink poses a particular health risk does not seem to me to be very well described. The Minister also said at the conciliation meeting on Wednesday that there was no scientific evidence. Today in the Engineer, a researcher who knows vaccine is saying that modern vaccines will also protect against the covid-19 variant from mink. Jens Lundgren says that this discussion about mink virus is a Danish phenomenon. I have two questions. Time's up). One is whether, in the light of that information, the Minister will reconsider whether at least mink which is not infected can be furned and that the breeding animals can survive. The second is what the Minister will do to provide better evidence of whether or not the covid-19 variant from mink poses a risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030160207	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030160208	Well the government builds its decisions, its assessments on the advice we receive from the health authorities, and of course the health authorities have access to all the research knowledge available. It is with this background that the health authorities have recommended the strategy that the government is implementing, namely that we kill all infected minks and that we kill within a zone of infected mink farms to prevent the infection from spreading into the rest of society. It is, of course, based on the very concrete fact that we have to stop the infection. It is concrete in itself and then it is clear that there is next to this risk of mutation. It is true that it is considered and described as a risk of mutation, which may ultimately affect a vaccine, and this further makes it possible to follow the recommendations of the health authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030160314	Thank you. I would just like to remind you that in this first round of brief remarks, there is one brief comment, and that is for the rapporteurs only, but we will have another chance to make brief comments to the Minister a little later in the process. Next is Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030160330	I am well aware, and I think we are all well aware, that there is a great deal of uncertainty about this risk that these mutations can pose to vaccine development and public health and, of course, not just our own public health, but public health throughout the world. So, of course, there must be all sorts of reservations, and I can understand some parties digging in that. But, on the other hand, we really must be aware of our responsibility here, because it has been shown that covid-19 particularly bites at mink, of which we have a very large share in the world. That is why my question is actually about the rest of the world. Has the Minister received any representations or had a dialogue with other countries or international organisations about the particular risk that Danish mink production poses to the entire covid-19 situation and the development of vaccines worldwide?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030160423	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030160424	Thank you for the question. It is clear that we are also interested in learning from the experiences of other countries about this. As I also said in the introduction, we are aware of the presence of covid-19 in mink in the Netherlands, in the United States, in Sweden and in Spain, but here too there is limited knowledge of combat strategies and what has been done. We have probably had the closest contact with the Netherlands, with which we are working closely in relation to many other areas, and I have to say that there is none of the experience we have gained in the Netherlands in relation to how they have fought the strategy and where the infection broke out before it came to Denmark, which has, as it were, given the opportunity to change the Danish strategy, and it builds, among other things. on the experience we have from the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030160536	Thank you, Minister. We shall now proceed to the debate and to the general rules for short remarks, and the first one we shall have on the platform is the rapporteur for the questions put to us, Mr President. Carl Valentin of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030160544	Thank you for the floor and thank you for your reply. After all, the Minister once again emphasizes the gravity of the situation, i.e. the large reservoir which mink production can represent in relation to covid-19, and that is very, very worrying. And now that I could not ask follow-up questions before, because the rules are such, I would also like to say that I am very positive about the answer that you will do everything in your power to ensure that as few minks as possible are infected with covid-19. Because it's the most responsible thing to do with the mutation risk. With 182 infected farms, we are therefore in a very serious situation and I am very concerned about the future of this, and I believe in fact that I share that concern with all the mink farmers out there right now. I think it is very, very unpleasant to be a mink in this situation where you are very, very exposed to infection, where more people isolate themselves because they have to and because they are threatened with their livelihoods. In fact, I also think that we need to discuss the future a little more openly, even more openly, than it has been discussed at the conciliation which was held the other day. Because when I ask what will happen after the next furning season, there are not many answers from the government, and I think that is one of the things we need to discuss today. Because is it really responsible in the middle of an epidemic, which is proving to be spreading extremely effectively at mink, to put new mink in the world in Denmark? I do not see at all that it is, and that is why we also need to discuss it and not just deal with the current situation, where we agree with the government that we need to be as offensive as possible in order to put down herds and stop the infection. So what's gonna happen after the next fur coat? If we let the mink industry put new mink in the world, then it can happen that the covid-19 again spreads on Danish mink farms. So what are we gonna do? Then we will have to put down mink herds again, and then we will have to make up the mink industry once again, if we want to do so politically, with another huge bill for taxpayers. The situation is already very serious, it is very expensive because we have to compensate so much, and in many ways it is also worrying about public health. Therefore, I actually see the obvious future solution to this problem as saying that there will be no more mink in the world after the next furning season, and from the SF we think that this decision should be permanent. And that is not just because it poses a risk of infection, because everyone knows that the Socialist People's Party has been in this position for more than a decade, but it is really based on animal ethics. We think it is unethical to take solitary animals, i.e. animals that like to be alone, and put them in with wildly many other minks. We also find it problematic to take territorial animals moving in huge areas and put them into a tiny cage. And if we already have an industry that is economically completely at its knees and we have this contagious situation, and we think that production is unethical, then it is obvious to conclude that this industry should be phased out. It is an obvious and right time to do so now, and we therefore urge the Folketing to make the mature decision. I also hope that we have learned from this process of covid-19, not only from the infection in the population, but also from the infection in the animals. For covid-19 is a zoonosis, and we already know that the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation concluded in a 2007 report that three out of four new viruses that affect humans are derived from animals or animal food, and this is according to the report Lifestock Production and Global Health Risks. So I think that we should also take a critical look at our animal production in general and remember in future that it is a risk when so many animals are incredibly close together also for public health. I think that is what I could do, but I can imagine that there are many questions, because there are a great many particularly bourgeois politicians who have come forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030161027	Yes, there is, and there is at least a brief comment from Mr. Erling Bonnesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030161031	Thank you. We have had the opportunity to discuss this at times along the way, and there is not much we agree on in this area. I must also disappoint the rapporteur by saying that now that the rapporteur is going into the breach to remove mink in the fur industry from the face of the earth, we are going against it and we will vote against it. I think that is quite clear as well. Then I have two questions: we will have more rounds now when we can discuss it about the future. When the rapporteur says animal welfare, and that is the one thing that we are looking at, does the SF's rapporteur accept that the reality is that when you look at the whole globe, it is in Denmark that you have the world's best animal welfare in this area and that it will thus harm animal welfare? Because with SF's proposal, if it should enjoy the promotion, will the production just move out of the country? That's one thing. The second point is that of the infection: what is actually the SF's rapporteur's assessment of what has happened so far in the fight against infection? Because we can see that the government is coming further and further behind. I understand that the rapporteur would have liked to have them all removed, but when you have gone about slaughtering healthy mink and you haven't got very far on it, if I may say so, to get something done about the sick mink, what is the rapporteur's view on that? 'Cause that's really bad, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030161147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030161148	To the first question: No, I do not recognise that we are the world's leader in the field of animal welfare. There is no huge difference between how the minks feel in the Danish mink production and the Chinese for example. And I can't even see the risk of this production moving just like that to other countries, because it's no longer particularly attractive to have mink production. Many consumers choose it from, and large companies like Gucci, Prada and many others choose it from, and across the world there is an animal welfare movement that stops this production. That is why phase-outs have been seen in Germany, Norway, England, France and many other places. As far as the fight against infection is concerned, the fight against infection has not gone very well. That's also why the SF, even long before they started to knock down the minks, really pressed for us to act on this situation. Already 10 days before you started this strategy of knocking down the minks, the SF called for us to take a meeting of the rapporteur's circle of centre-left rapporteurs on this problem. So we've been pushing for a long time for this infection to be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030161252	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030161253	Once upon a time, there was a politician in here who said, "If that's the facts, I'm denying the facts." It sounds almost as if the rapporteur is talking about the same thing, because it is a fact when you look at it with animal welfare and the demand for Danish mink and then it is true that you are financially a little on your knees now that in an average year it is good for welfare and everything. So if mink production is moved out and it does with SF's proposal it becomes less animal welfare. It's a contradiction to put it in that way. And it must be strange as SFs to see that what has been backed up so far has actually done the opposite of what the rapporteur is saying now, namely to combat the infection. After all, it has not given it a maximum speed when you have used your strength to slaughter healthy mink.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030161344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030161346	Sir. Erling Bonnesen has absolutely no evidence that the entire Danish mink production will move out if we close it. It is possible that some of it potentially will, but there is nothing to suggest that it is just one to one. And to say that the Danish strategy has directly opposed it, in other words that the fact that the mines have been knocked down has prevented the spread of infection, Mr. Nor does Erling Bonnesen provide any evidence whatsoever. You do what has been recommended by the Statens Serum Institute as the most responsible, and we fully support that in the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030161418	Thank you. Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030161421	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur: if you find a cat in Frederiksberg, which is hit by covid-19, is the rapporteur prepared to kill all cats in a radius of 7.8 km?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030161434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030161436	Yes, if the State Serum Institute goes out and says it's necessary, then we'll consider it. But they hardly do, because that is not the situation. Well, the difference between a single cat and a mink production is that thousands of cats are not stowed into small cages with the risk of spreading infection in that way. So I think it is a strange question that has nothing to do with health recommendations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030161458	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030161500	Will the rapporteur help to start work to investigate pets for corona-stricken families, so that we can actually get an insight into how pets can be spreaders at home?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030161514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030161516	Yeah, definitely. So, as far as I know, dogs can, for example, be infected with covid-19, and studies are already under way in relation to different animals and how they can help spread the infection. It should also be borne in mind that some of the animals that we consider to be pets are in fact to be production animals in other countries, such as dogs, where there may be a potential risk in relation to dog meat production in other countries. So I certainly believe that this is something that will be dug into, and I think it is sensible to examine how zoonoses can spread, including through other species.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030161548	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lise Bech.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030161550	Thank you. I find it distasteful that the rapporteur should wrap this up as a proposal on health risks. Because it is true: the rapporteur wants us to abolish and stop mink growing in Denmark. And the next one will be our pig production and so on, because we know what it's like with vegans. That's the way it is. Well, that's not what I wanted to say at all. The rapporteur said that many mink farmers are worried about this time. Well, that's right, but it's because they can't be allowed to fur their healthy animals and keep their breeding animals, because it's the breeding animals that are so important to preserve this. I agree that the rapporteur does not want us to retain the breeding animals because we have to abolish them. The rapporteur then says that they are being compensated too much. Now I've gone over time, I see. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur very quickly whether you do not think it might be an idea to fur the animals that can now be furned, to save some money, leave some money in the box and they can get their money for furning?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030161705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030161707	There were a number of questions I'll try to make it all. I don't wrap anything up. I have said quite clearly that, for more than a decade, the SF has wanted to phase out this production of animal ethics. At the same time, I say that I think the time is now when we are already compensating growers and where we are in danger of having to close production temporarily. That's an obvious time to do it now. It is therefore obvious to give support to these mink growers, also so that they can move on, be retrained and come up with something else to do, when we basically do not think that there should be mink production in Denmark. I don't think it's okay to say that I'm wrapping it up, because I'm not wrapping anything up. I did not say that we should ban this production just because of the health crisis. I say that it is because of the many different factors that there are. Then the rapporteur also says that mink farmers are primarily concerned because animals have to be killed. It is clear that this is part of what the mink growers are worried about, because there are covid-19 in society. It's not just because the government is evil that this is happening. It is because there is spread of infection in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030161812	Mrs. Lise Bech.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030161814	I don't think I got the answer. After all, the Enhedslisten has been out saying that, for economic reasons, they should be allowed to fur their animals. After all, I think that is something, even if you have the view that you do not want fur animal breeding in Denmark. Then I would say, with regard to Gucci and Prada, and what they're called all those fine marks, they won't sell mink and stuff like that, then it'll phase itself out. So peace be with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030161846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030161847	The reason why I pointed out that there were many who chose it out was precisely that Mr. Erling Bonnesen asked if all sorts of other countries could just take over the production, and then I said that you cannot necessarily do so, because there is a growing movement against this. The reason I didn't get the answer to the last question before was because my time ran out. I think we can consider the possibility of furning if we consider that it is entirely safe to do so in terms of health. But for SF it will always be the case that public health comes first in this and we will take all the initiatives necessary to ensure that as few minks as possible are infected and that we stop the spread of infection.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030161920	Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030161923	Thank you. I would like to praise SF for tone clean flags and say: We want the mink industry furry in Denmark, we need to get rid of that industry, and we have been saying this for years. In other words, where some may have a misguided intention, in this situation, to put an end to the industry. So thank you for tone clean flags. But I have to ask: When you use the argument that it is for animal welfare reasons, does the SF really not recognise that the Danish mink growers have a very high level of animal welfare compared to the rest of the world, and that, if you abolish mink breeding in Denmark, you move the breeding elsewhere, where they do not have the focus on animal welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162005	No, I do not accept that at all, and I have already received that question. I certainly do not think that what will happen if Danish mink production is phased out is that the entire production simply moves to some other countries, because there are huge movements against this production. And frankly, what country is it that stands ready to take over a mink production on just that, this year it is about 13.5 million animals? So, in the middle of a covid-19 situation, where the infection spreads rapidly among mink, is it the industry that one wants to let flourish in one's country? To me, the writing on the wall is quite clear: Mink production is on its way out throughout the world. And we want to give it a boost, because we actually think that the many people who speak against this production have a very good point. The animals have incredibly bad lives in these tiny cages, so let us get rid of that production, as we do, for example. has done it with fox breeding.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162056	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162100	Now it is the case that there is a certain demand for minkskin in the world. Now I know that SF does not care so much about supply and demand. But that demand will be somewhere, and if it is not in Denmark, then it will come somewhere else. I would like to ask: if the SF succeeds in getting the mink industry furry, what about the 3,000 jobs directly related to the mink? What are these people gonna do for a living? And what about the many, many billions that Denmark earns on the mink? What part of the welfare needs to be saved because of losing that money?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162135	We are now very interested in supply and demand, and we have seen in recent years that demand has been falling. This has been one of the reasons why the price of minkskin has become so incredibly low. What people are going to live on in the future, we can't decide in here at Christiansborg, but we can give retraining courses, we can provide retraining opportunities, and we can make sure that these mink growers get something else to do. There are several industries over the years that have been phased out, both by politicians, but also, as such, just as a consequence of developments in the market. And, of course, we can do the same here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162208	Then it's mr. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162210	Thank you for that and thank you for raising this debate. I recognize or understand that SF wants to get rid of the mink business. I think it's very honest that you go out and say it so clearly and clearly. Other rapporteurs have also acknowledged this. But what I want to know a little bit about is how SF thinks mink growers should be compensated. After all, there are a large number of animals which must then be killed, and there is also a huge production plant. How much money does SF expect to set aside for compensation and compensation for animals and production equipment?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162252	We do not have a precise figure on how much money we are going to set aside for it, but we call on the government to convene all the parties of the Folketing for negotiations on how we can get this industry done fairly and also with respect for the mink growers. It is clear that we think that the compensation arrangements that have been put forward so far are very lucrative. In other words, if you compare with other areas, such as culture, there is no doubt that the mink farmers have received a quite fine price for these minkskins and are being compensated very much. We think it is appropriate to say at the same time that, when these compensation schemes are being drawn up, we should at the same time say: well, let us phase out that industry in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162332	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162334	It was actually a pitiful answer, but somewhere an honest answer: the minkkeepers must be more or less left to themselves. What I would like to ask here in the second place is: where will the values created by the mink industry, which we will then be lacking in society, be found? Is it less child care or poorer care for the elderly, or is it the cutting of hospital budgets that SF is going to need to find the money that will be missing?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162406	After all, the rapporteur completely ignores the huge economic consequences of doing what the rapporteur's own party wants, namely continuing mink production in Denmark. I have described how we can stand in a situation where a new generation of mink is infected with covid-19, and then they must be killed and the growers compensated. As far as I am concerned, the expensive proposal here today is to let the mink industry live on. Of course, we need to find out how we can finance this, and we must do so together. But we cannot simply say that because we want to continue the industry, there is no cost to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162459	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162502	I don't really want to ask a question. Now the rapporteur is under heavy fire, so I would actually just like to take the opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur. I've been following the sidelines a little bit. I've been busy with a lot of other things, including my party. I would just like to say that if there is a party and a rapporteur who has really been concerned about this area and highlighted it, then it is the rapporteur. And I think that is necessary. Whether it will be hard for the industry or not, there is a great risk to health, which is why I would like to thank the rapporteur. It's a little unusual to stand here and thank you. I have never really done that before, but I think it is a serious situation and thank you for being so vigilant and also breathed the Minister into that area. Thank you for that, at least for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162546	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. I am very pleased that it has been noticed that I have been preoccupied with this matter for a very long time. I am very, very concerned about public health in this regard, both in relation to infection and the risk of mutation. And then my heart burns for animal welfare too, and that is why I speak very passionately about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162601	Then it's Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162602	Thank you. Now we can hear that the rapporteur is very concerned about public health and that is why the SF will think that you have to go very, very far to kill all mink. He says biologists are worried about this mink variant, mutation of corona. But at the same time we can hear from the Minister that there is no knowledge about the importance of the mink variant. It's very limited. There is no specific risk. Today in the Engineer we can also read from a vaccine researcher, Salanti, that the vaccine hits a wide range, i.e. that the mutation of corona in mink poses no particular health risk. Does the rapporteur not recognize that there is no medical justification for this fear, that is to say that there is no great risk to health?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162652	No. The State Serum Institute has reported clearly that they fear that the virus may mutate in a way that may potentially affect the effectiveness of future vaccines. I fully acknowledge that it is not at all certain, that it may well be that we are lucky and that nothing is happening. But to me, it's not a risk worth taking. I have just recently asked questions to the Minister, and I get in reply, quote: "Two variants (mutation and deletion) of COVID-19 have been observed which have occurred in mink. The mink variants are worrying as they also occur in the gene that encodes the spike protein. It is also likely that people who have already been infected may be infected again with the two virus variants. In that case, flock immunity will be absent. If I shouldn't respond to this and think it's worrying, then I don't know what I should be worried about.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162752	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162753	Thank you. One can hear the rapporteur referring to something potentially that it is not safe. However, I must conclude from the answer given by the rapporteur that there is no concrete medical evidence that there is a health risk to this mutation in the mines. And then I'm just gonna follow up by asking you a question. Does this mean that the rapporteur believes that this vaccine scientist, Salanti, is wrong today in the Engineer?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162824-2	The rapporteur has actually heard correctly. Because I'm saying there's a potential risk. I am not saying that this is necessarily happening. I'm saying there's a risk of that. Should we then take the gamble and say: the Mink business is so important that we keep it alive, and then we hope and cross our fingers for a virus does not mutate in a way that can affect the effectiveness of future vaccines? Or should we say: We wear belts and braces? I think the last thing is clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162838	Thank you. Then it's mr. Egil Hulgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162841	Let me follow up on what Marie Bjerre also highlights, namely that according to the Engineer today we can say that the modern vaccines will also protect against the mink variant. That's what they say. So there is no potential risk. Jens Lundgren, whom we all know, says that it is a Danish opinion that mink virus poses a health hazard. Understand: Well, get in the fight, this is not really a fear. One last quote I want to make comes from the Statens Serum Institute itself and their expert: Although there is a theoretical fear of a mutation, this should not be the main reason for killing mink. That's what the State Serum Institute says. It's not mutations that should be the cause of knocking down these large reservoirs of viruses. We're dealing with a virus that mutates. It mutates in people, and it mutates in mink. Is there any particular health risk? It hasn't been proven. Even the individuals who have received the mink variant have not become particularly ill, that is, they have not become particularly ill. So there is no proven risk. Does that not impress the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030162955	To the first thing that is said about the mutations that already exist, it is important to stress that there is a risk of new mutations. Therefore, we should not only look at the mutations that have already been observed, but also consider the risk of new mutations that may affect the effectiveness of future vaccines. It is true, then, that there are many different researchers who speak out about this and they speak out in different ways, and I have spent a lot of time here, but I cannot describe myself as an expert. It is there, as far as I know, no one can in here, but I can listen to the many experts there are. And there are several of them who are very worried about this development. There are also some who are not. That is why we, as elected representatives, are faced with the fact that we have to make a choice. Do we think this is a bet worth doing? Do we think we should have mink production when it spreads so incredibly fast with the minks, when it's really expensive in compensation schemes, and when there's mutation risk, do all these things happen? Overall, my conclusion is: No, it's not worth the risk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030163057	Sir. Egil Hulgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030163059	Well, the flu virus mutates too. The Corona virus mutates all the time. Of course, there are viruses that mutate. It does not pose a particular risk. No risk has been identified either. But can we not agree, rapporteur, that what we really need is for the government to set in motion a development work, a research project which must demonstrate or reject whether there is a health risk?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030163124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030163126	No. I think the obvious thing to do in this situation is to combat the spread of infection as much as possible and then to put in place a plan for how to dismantle mink production in Denmark. And then I think it is a little violent to hear a rapporteur standing here in the Danish Parliament comparing covid-19 with a flu. I mean, the country's been shut down. These are very different situations, and covid-19 is not an ordinary flu. This is a very, very serious situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030163156	Thank you. Then there are no more brief Then we move on in the rapporteur's line. Carl Valentin I shall read out a proposal for adoption). Yes, it is also very good if you remember to do so right after your rapporteur's speech, but let's get it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030163212	Yeah, I'm so sorry about that. This is the first question debate I have called for. It is a proposal for adoption made by the Social Democratic Party, the Enhedslisten, the Socialist People's Party, the Radical Left and the Alternative, and it reads as follows: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament supports the government's priority of health protection as the main consideration during the Coronapandemic. The Danish Parliament expresses its concern that the corona virus may mutate at the risk of emerging new variants that may be more contagious and pathogenic as well as affect the effects of potential covid-19 vaccine candidates. Mink herds constitute a large reservoir of infection, causing concern that a unique mink variant has been identified, which is a threat to public health. Parliament therefore requires the government to ensure that no new litter of mink is started after the coming furry season if the health and veterinary authorities consider that there is an unacceptable risk of infection. • V 5. • V 5) • V 5)
ParlaMint-DK_20201030163311	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further debate. If you forget to read out a proposal for adoption, you can also hand it over to one of the others who is on the proposal for adoption and ask them to read it out. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, sir. Anders Kronborg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030163337	Thank you very much. I can tell you that I had actually taken the proposal for adoption up here, but I will not read it out, because the SF rapporteur has read out the proposal for adoption which we support so well. The Covid-19 situation is a very, very serious situation. This is something that needs to be taken seriously, and the contamination that we are currently seeing on the Danish mink farms is both serious in relation to public health and, of course, it is also serious for all the mink farmers affected. What is very important for social democracy is that we take no chances with public health; we put public health first; we listen to the specialist expertise. This means that we are listening to the health authorities in the state, and when the state health authorities clearly state that there is a health risk in relation to mutation, it is only right to run a precautionary principle. I often wonder how bad it must be if you go to a mink farm, infect a mink farm, the corona mutate, and then it infects one of the older people in our nursing home, who then may not be able to be helped by a future vaccine, which is currently at stage 3. I simply think it would be unbearable if we were to put public health at risk. That is why it is absolutely right that we must act decisively, we must put the disease down, we must drive a precautionary principle. That is why, of course, we also support the idea that many people would be surprised if I stood and spoke against the government and there is full support for the precautionary principle that the government is running in relation to the covid-19 strategy in relation to mink.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030163538	Thank you. Then there are a few brief comments, and first it is Mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030163542	Thank you. There is one thing we in the Left can at least agree with the Socialist rapporteur on, and that is that public health is the most important and people come first, but then there are also some dividing lines that we should try to get a little hold of, including whether there should be mink production in the future. So I would like to ask the Socialist rapporteur directly whether the rapporteur will guarantee that social democracy will not, at a later stage, abolish mink production either? I understand that this has now been signaled by the fact that there are no plans to do so. Will we guarantee that in future we will not go in and do away with mink production, in other words, at a later stage? And how does it relate to the fact that we have just heard a reading of a proposal for adoption by SF and others, where I could understand • now we need to read the near read that we will then go in and abolish mink production anyway? It doesn't add up. In other words, social democracy must choose whether to maintain mink or whether to abolish mink. We need to clarify this: where are we?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030163641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030163642	Thank you very much for that to the rapporteur of the Left. After all, we have discussed this matter a great deal, and I am not surprised to say that for the Social Democrats there is no hidden agenda in relation to winding up Danish mink production. By the way, we do not think that it is right to start sneaking into the back door in relation to a very, very serious health crisis in Denmark. Now I am pleased that the rapporteur of the Left will read the text carefully, because there is not a single word in the proposal for adoption, which the SF rapporteur read in this Chamber, that Danish mink production should be phased out. What the proposal for adoption is about is that we put public health first. We are listening to the authorities and, of course, we are really nervous that it has been shown that a mutation can actually occur in the mink farms, because there are so many thousand minks that are currently being infected with this covid-19 with flu-like symptoms, but which are of course much, much more extensive and can actually kill people.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030163743	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030163745	Thank you. I did not hear the word 'guarantee' from the Socialist rapporteur, so very briefly: will the Socialists' rapporteur here guarantee from the platform that we will not have to go into a process which will then lead to the dismantling of mink production in Denmark at a later stage? We have to have that in place. Then we can read the text of that proposal for adoption a little later.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030163805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030163807	So, I can't give a guarantee of what the Social Democratic Party wants in 60, 70 or 100 years' time, but there are no current plans to do that, I can say confidently about winding up Danish mink production, either in the current situation or when we get across to the other side of a corona situation. More clearly and more clearly, I can hardly say that. It's almost the closest you get to a guarantee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030163828	Thank you, Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030163831	I have not yet received the proposal for adoption in hand, so unfortunately I cannot read it out. But I could hear that the SF's rapporteur read that no new mink team should be started if there was a corona risk, and that is what the SF put forward in their speech was a way to dismantle mink production in Denmark. What surprised me was that the Socialists were in favour of this proposal for adoption. This must mean that if there is a corona risk, social democracy will not start new mink teams. This must also mean that mink production will die in Denmark. So: How much corona risk does it take before the Social Democrats intend to dismantle Danish mink production?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030163911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030163913	Well, it is clear that at the moment our strategy is based on listening to the authorities quite clearly, and I cannot imagine that the Left will say that we should gamble with public health. I have had my doubts over the last few days, when the zigzag course has been seen on the left side, where one day they criticize that it is going too slowly, because the next day they want to have a timeout, because the third day they want to stop killing the sick mink. So it is very well connected, in terms of listening to the recommendations that come from the state, because we simply do not want to gamble with public health. We want this profession to survive in Denmark, and that is also why we support and support the creation of a 7.8 kilometre limit to see precisely whether we can contain the infection. The worst thing that could happen was that we should follow what the rapporteur of the Left said at the conciliation meeting on Wednesday: that we should stop killing infected and non-infected mink in the immediate vicinity, because this corona will then really speed up the mink herd around Denmark, and then we really have a risk in terms of public health.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030164021	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030164023	They say attack is the best defense. We can clearly hear that the rapporteur is in a position of defence. We have always supported public health, there is no doubt about that, but we just need to know: what is the corona risk? How much will it take for the Social Democrats to stop all mink production in Denmark? Because that's kind of what you're going to do. After all, there has been no health evidence of the things that have been done so far in relation to this, it has been statistical. So what is the corona situation that needs to be in order to shut down mink production in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030164100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030164102	It is clear that we are in a position of defence when the rapporteur of the Left says that we have not read a proposal for adoption closely and then concludes what is in a proposal for adoption. It is not true that this proposal for adoption will in any way put an end to Danish mink production. With this proposal for adoption, we are concerned about public health, which is very, very important. But I can say that I will then be very, very nervous if we get a very, very clear and clear answer on a hypothetical question that a future vaccine will not work in relation to a mutation that happens in mink. We can already see, since we know that the infection from mink and this particular mutation is in the population, that it is a risk for a future vaccine, and that is where we put public health above all else.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030164145	Thank you. Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030164148	Thank you. When I got up this morning, I was kind of hoping this would be a good day. But I have to promise that this proposal for adoption, which the Social Democrats support, has turned into a really, really bad day. We're gonna be making a living with the corona for a very long time, and with what this proposal says, we're getting rid of the mink business, and now I'm gonna have to ask a question. Anders Kronborg goes so far as to kill every mink in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030164224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030164226	I think that is a very, very strange question. There's no way we're there yet. We are listening to the recommendations of the health authorities, and I have made it clear here that the 7,8-km limit is precisely about ensuring that the infection does not spread to even more mink farms in Denmark. We hope that we will be able to stem this, because we do not intend to dismantle mink or fur production in Denmark. It is going to be in Denmark, and now we are not going to start the next question debate, but I can tell you here quietly that we are actually coming with a text in which we propose that the government should convene all the parties in the Danish Parliament for discussions on how Danish minkavl can continue in the future, and there I hope, of course, that Conservatives and others will join such a text. But we will have the opportunity to discuss this in the next round of questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030164315	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030164317	So, with the more than 400 farms now on the death list, it's basically equivalent to half of Denmark's mink, and this strategy has been running for 30 days. When 30 more days have passed, my assessment will be that virtually every mink in Denmark is within that death list circle, and I just think it is quite awful to hear that this way you will phase out the mink business completely. Because that's what's gonna be the consequence of this. Would the rapporteur not agree with me that the strategy adopted to combat coronasmits among minks has failed completely?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030164351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030164352	I would not agree with the rapporteur in any way. I think it is very important that we run a precautionary principle when it comes to combating this coronasmite in Denmark, and it would simply be unbearable if we were to have a vaccine that comes into the market and that is going to help people, and this vaccine could not actually work and help them not to get infected with a variant of this covid-19 coming from the mink. It is certainly not a responsibility that I think we can take on our shoulders, and here we place public health completely above profit and narrow business interests. That is a perfectly clear position for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030164427	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030164429	Thank you. I heard the word 'precautionary principle' last time when we fought to remove the six-day rule. At that time, the government also used that term, that is, the principle of caution, and we found that at least then it was not on the basis of some health recommendations that a precautionary principle was introduced. I would like to ask the Socialist rapporteur: is it now a political decision, or is it a health recommendation to introduce this precautionary principle?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030164504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030164506	It is clear that all the decisions taken in relation to the covid-19 are decisions taken by the government on the basis of some recommendations, and I think it would be to gamble with public health, to gamble with human life, if you get clear and clear recommendations that you should do something about the infection that flourishes in mink farms and not do so. In fact, then, we are putting public health at risk, and it can actually do so that a future vaccine cannot work. This is very serious, and I am not going to ask Mrs Anni Matthiesen questions, but Mrs Anni Matthiesen knows me well, and this is not a funny situation for any politician; it is not a funny situation for any mink farmer that you have to kill healthy and sick animals. It would have been better if we had not done so, but we are doing so in relation to the recommendations that come from, among other things. The State's Serum Institute, and I choose to believe that the Statens Serum Institute is significantly better inside the drug and apologize if it may sound like an insult to you than for example. Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030164610	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030164612	Yes, it may be a bit of an insult, because I have visited a lot of mink farms, I can tell Mr. Anders Kronborg. I would just like to address the proposal for adoption here, which actually concerns me too. If the government does not think that new litters of mink should be started up, does the rapporteur not think that this means closing down the industry?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030164633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030164635	In this proposal for adoption, we have not given a blank cheque to ensure that no new litter is started up. We have written very clearly that this should be based on a medical assessment. As in the case of the current strategy, we must also listen to the very clear recommendations that there are in the future. In conclusion, I can also say to Anni Matthiesen that we are about to have a question debate, where we are coming up with a proposal for adoption, where we want all parties in the Danish Parliament to be convened by the government, so that we can discuss together how we can ensure that the Danish mink industry can survive, and I very much hope that those parties who care about the mink industry will support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030164714	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030164716	Thank you. I have to say that I have also been a little disappointed here today, because I actually thought that the Social Democrats would adopt a slightly more balanced approach, but it has clearly been chosen for the benefit of those parties which want to have furred the mink industry, and this is clearly evident from this proposal for adoption. We agree that public health is at the forefront, and we also agree with a precautionary principle, but it must be based on a veterinary basis. And there we think it is clear now that the Social Democratic Party has allowed itself to be confined to the SF's cart here, as the text says, that no new litter of mink should be started after the coming furry season if it is estimated that there is a risk of infection. Well, I guess that's the same thing as saying that the industry needs to be shut down, 'cause when is this gonna be decided? It will not tomorrow, and it probably will not in the next 5-6 weeks, and then the industry will be de facto closed down, because there is no mink left. So I would like to ask the Social Democrats' rapporteur: why has not a precautionary principle been adopted based on clear veterinary recommendations, for which one can vouch, rather than simply de facto agreeing to fur the mink industry?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030164826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030164828	Now I have a past as a school teacher, and when my students in the school classes had to present and read something, I told them that it is very important that you read it correctly, because otherwise you can almost suspect people of manipulating. And now, with Mr. Knox... Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from the Left quotes from the text, allow me to correct the questioner, because it is actually quite clear in this text of if the health and veterinary authorities consider that there is a risk, and not just as the rapporteur postulates, that there is a risk of infection, but that there is an unacceptable risk of infection associated with it. So that is the correct wording of the text. It is a precautionary principle and, of course, it is something that needs to be considered very, very carefully. Now I've read to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from the Left, what exactly says, so I hope we can avoid further misunderstandings in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030164915	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030164916	As we have also heard here in the debate, there are several veterinary experts out there who disagree completely with the assessment that lies. So this is something you can discuss for a long time, and in the meantime, the mink business dies. I also hear that the rapporteur uses words such as 'profit' and 'narrow business interests', and I did not expect to hear that from the Social Democratic Party. This is the kind of thing that belongs a little further out on the left, so I was a little surprised. But the day the last mink may have been slaughtered at the mink farms, there will still be mink out in the wild in Denmark. What about those minks?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030164952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030164953	Thank you very much for that question. It was also one of the questions put to the rapporteur of the Left in relation to pets. What you are clearly told when you go down in matter here is that the reason why this corona can mutate in the minks is precisely that on a mink farm there are many thousands minks and that it is going very, very fast, whereas it is so in the wild nature in relation to cats, foxes and other animals that there is no amount at all that the virus mutates through. And now I am not a veterinarian or an expert, but when I get such reports from the health authorities, I think it is certainly worth listening to, because I dare not put Mrs Jensen's or Mr. Hansen's life at stake.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030165031	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030165037	The rapporteur's minister says that every effort will be made to prevent mink from becoming infected. And you can also understand from the rapporteur that a precautionary principle is followed; that the precautionary principle is more important than medical evidence. If you're going to follow it to the limit, we just have to knock down every mink; then we don't have to care about the future of the industry. So I would also like to ask the rapporteur how far he thinks we should go. How far is the government willing to go? I would also like to follow up on the excellent question put by my colleague, Mr Seligman. Per Larsen, whom the rapporteur dismissed by saying that this was a strange question. But it is relevant to know: how far does the rapporteur think the government should go? Is it willing that these measures are introduced on the basis of a precautionary principle, and not on the basis of something that is a health professional's basis, which means that we do not have minkavl in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030165130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030165132	It is quite simply wrong, as Mrs Bjerre claims here, because the efforts being made by the government at the moment have a health professional recommendation behind it. And I believe that the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Erling Bonnesen, for example, can confirm how the government party is being pressured by, for example: SF and Enhedslisten to completely dismantle mink production in Denmark. We do not want that to happen; we want to run in a track that is clearly anchored in the health professional recommendations. That is why we are clearly going in and knocking down the sick crews; that is why we support the fact that there is a radius of 7.8 km recommended by the health authorities. We hope, therefore, that we will be able to eliminate the infection in this way. We have never been in this situation before; it is quite new to the Kingdom of Denmark, and that is why the situation is of course also really, really difficult. But when you say that a future vaccine may not work, I do not understand that a party that courtesy the government does not take public health a little more seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030165241	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030165243	Now I did not really ask about the health profession, but it is also an interesting discussion, because I would like to know if there is any evidence of health care for all the measures being taken. It's certainly not something we've seen the shadow of. On the other hand, we are acting on the basis of a precautionary principle and some conjecture in relation to risk and so on, but there is no concrete evidence, and that is also what the rapporteur's own minister said from the platform. No, what I was asking was, how far will the government go? Are you willing that this means that you end up knocking down every mink in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030165315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030165316	I hope not, that is to say, that you will get there. And I also think that we are trying to take care of the mink industry at best. That is also why we are providing a very good compensation; we are providing a compensation of 100 per cent. for the minkskin to farms with both sick and healthy herds. I hope we do not get to where all the minks in Denmark have been knocked down. At any rate, this is not something for which Mrs Marie Bjerre can in any way take your income. Then there was a consultation on Wednesday, and there the Minister presented very thoroughly, very objectively, very properly the health risks associated with just as the Left suggested in the consultation • to stop the taking of sick mink. It would be very, very bad and a gambling with public health.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030165401	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lise Bech.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030165402	Thank you. The rapporteur says many times the words 'public health' and 'health crisis'. Yes, and we must take that seriously. The world is in a health crisis, but the mink is not the problem for the corona virus. It's a pandemic mutating all over the world, and it's not something I say, it says professor of infectious diseases at Rigshospitalet Jens Lundgren. We've heard of him before today. So what I just want to ask the rapporteur calmly is: how does the rapporteur think Danish mink production should survive with what is happening now? As previous rapporteurs have also asked, how far is the government willing to go?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030165450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030165452	I think it's a lot about us in this Parliament being responsible, being decent, having a good dialogue with, among others. The mink business has a good dialogue with each other. What I am informed of is that the government has a dialogue with the industry itself. It is also our clear intention, as has already been said, that we would like to see all parties in the Folketing in dialogue on how we can ensure a future for the mink industry in Denmark. That is also why, when this question debate, F 9, is finished, we will come up with a proposal for adoption to F 10, in which we will actually instruct the government to convene all the parties in the Folketing to discuss it here, and I hope that the Danish People's Party will support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030165532	Mrs. Lise Bech.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030165534	Yes, this dialogue has taken a long time to get started, because this mass killing started on October 1st, and it is only now that we have really got to grips with this that we have been able to get the Minister and others to talk. What I hear from the water pipes is not exactly that you have a good dialogue out there. It's been one-way communication. But I would like to ask one more question: how far is one willing to go? Is the whole mink business going to be shut down?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030165610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030165612	We are ready to go where it is about saving lives and getting a vaccine. I am also saying quite clearly here on the platform that we hope that the Danish fur and mink industry will survive. In fact, that is why we are concerned about the 7.8-kilometre zone, because we hope that we can stop the spread in relation to mink. We have not been in this situation before in relation to covid-19, and this is really, really serious, and the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party knows very well that the recommendations that the government is leaning on have been closely consulted with the Danish health authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030165643	Thank you. Next is Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030165648	Thank you. In other words, I had also expected that we would have a debate which was both about the serious situation we are in, but also a clear indication from the government that fur farming is still seen as part of a business future in Denmark. And I just have to say that when I read this proposal for adoption that comes around, it is clear that the government has given in to the red support parties that you have. Because if you don't put in new animals and litter after furning, we have de facto closed down this profession in Denmark. And that's what the government is doing today. I just have to say that I simply do not understand that you do not say it honestly. I went out to meet some South Jutland mink farmers yesterday, Frederik and Oskar. You said I'd be happy to report from the conversation. Frederik is a young man. He said if the government wants to, we might be able to move on. Oskar said if we get infected, both the bank and my age will say it's over. But what they most wanted was honesty and fairness. And the proposal for adoption that we have before us today is anything but honest, that is anything but fair. That is why I would just like to ask the Socialist rapporteur: do the Socialists believe that it is acceptable not to pay compensation for the de facto closure that is being done now?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030165801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030165803	In other words, the compensation granted to the Danish mink farms is, of course, known to me, a 30-year-old. It is the same compensation scheme that was in the case of avian influenza, the same compensation scheme that was in the case of foot-and-mouth disease. This is something the industry itself has been through in the past, so yes, I actually think that the compensation system that we see in relation to what is happening in the real world is fair. I do not recognize the scare-mongering that the rapporteur here is suggesting that we should de facto shut down Danish fur animal production. That is not the intention of this proposal for adoption. What is the intention of this proposal for adoption is to take care of public health in Denmark. And if Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby would like to come in at a table and discuss future mink production and fur animal industry in Denmark, Ellen Trane Nørby could, when we come to question no. F 10, vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled here by the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030165902	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030165904	But it is a good thing that the government and the Socialists want a debate and a dialogue now; after all, it is months too late. We, the Left and the Danish Parliament, have been asking for a debate on how we deal with this situation for several months. That hasn't happened. Instead, one has had such a slinging course, in relation to how one has acted in this area. I would just like to ask you about the understanding of the proposal for adoption that we are dealing with now. Because when the rapporteur just said that it was delineated, and it was with regulatory control, I just need the rapporteur's interpretation of whether the last sentence, which is about not starting up new litters, applies to all herds and therefore also to those who have not experienced infection? Because there is no dividing line between those who have been infected and those who have not been infected, so is everyone?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030165946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030165948	This applies to the recommendation which at the time came from the health authorities. Then I simply do not agree with the rapporteur of the Left that this should be turned into a debate. Now I have been discussing this matter for a very long time, and I must also say that if we were to slap ourselves into something in a debate, I do not really think we put public health at the top. I was supposed to be one of them. in public answer to questions from the Left's European Parliamentarian where he was out criticizing that one killed sick mink he wanted a timeout. Three days later, the rapporteur of the Left was Mr. Erling Bonnesen out and criticize the government for now going too slow. So I just have to say that if that was the zigzag course that we were going to be negotiating with, I actually think that, at worst, we were going to put public health at risk. There I am quite confident that the government has listened a lot to the recommendations that come from the Danish health authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030170034	Thank you. Then it's mr. Egil Hulgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030170039	Thank you. It is funny that the rapporteur is talking about a frightening picture from the Left. I think, in fact, that the scare picture comes from the rapporteur's side. The proposal for adoption states that a unique mink variant has been identified, which is a threat to public health. However, one of your advisors from the Statens Serum Institut says to the Agricultural Newspaper that although there is a theoretical fear of a mutation, it should not be the main reason for killing mink. It's your own counselor who says so. A unique mink variant, a threat to public health, therefore we must put them down and then tell your advisors that although there is a fear of a mutation, it should not be the main reason for killing mink. I think there's a discrepan. So I have to ask the Social Democrats: have you been faced with the risk of a motion of censure on the left?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030170137	For the record, I would like to ask you to say who you are quoting when you quote. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030170145	Now I do not know the specific quote that the rapporteur is reading here, and I must also just tell the rapporteur that we have the same advisers. We're both members of the Folketing. I am not a member of the government and have the experts there, but what I could at least clearly extract from the consultation and the discussions I have been in is that there are some clear recommendations from the State Serum Institute. I have certainly not heard that the Statens Serum Institute is calling on the government to change the course that is currently in place. But it is clear that if new knowledge comes, new theories come, new recommendations come, so of course, as a politician, you have to be open to looking at whether there is anything that can be adjusted in relation to this. What matters now is to stem an infection and stem a mutation which can make a future vaccine ineffective. In fact, I think it should be commended to the government that what we give priority to is public health.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030170245	Thank you. Sir. Egil Hulgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030170247	I apologize, of course. It's Anders Fomsgaard who says it. I do not think I heard an answer as to whether there was a risk of a motion of censure on the Minister from the left. That's one thing. And the second is, if we cannot then agree that we need more knowledge and should not the government undertake a little more research into whether or not there is a risk?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030170309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030170311	So, in relation to a motion of censure, I almost think it is a little cafcasque that I should reply to it. We have a very good dialogue with our support parties, and this is confirmed here too. We also have a very good dialogue with, for example. Left rapporteur. We have not been able to agree on a proposal for adoption at this stage, although I think we have tried a great deal only yesterday and only today. I would have liked us to land something broad in the Folketing. In fact, I think that had dressed the Danish Parliament: that is to say, in relation to the historical health crisis that we are facing, we all take our responsibility on our shoulders.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030170349	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030170352	Thank you. I think it's a wild debate to follow this one. So we are in a situation where the governing party agrees with the bourgeois parties that we must continue mink production in Denmark, and yet we are under extreme fire in this situation. I think that's pretty amazing. I would really like to hear from the rapporteur what he thinks about this situation, where right now we have a question debate about the potential health risk of the mutation of the corona virus in mink, and what the bourgeois parties are focusing on is how we keep this industry alive. Does the rapporteur think that the bourgeois parties take this health crisis seriously?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030170430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030170432	If you have followed the bourgeois parties, not least the Left, then I think there has been a zigzag course in this whole debate which, I think, does not deserve praise when it comes to a party that is courting the government of this country. We have seen the Left criticize one day that killing is going too slowly, because the next day would have speeded up the killing. Then one day you will have killed infected mink for the next day not wanting to kill infected mink. And then you want another day to have a timeout. So it's a zigzag course and arguments that stick in every direction, and I don't think that suits a party that wants to sit with the leadership of this country. So when the rapporteur asks me directly, I am glad that it is my party that sits in government when we have a health crisis, because there it is important that it is Mr. and Mrs Jensen, we are giving priority, not a mink.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030170524	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030170527	Thank you for that answer. I agree with you very much, and I would also like to say that I think it is a little blue-eyed by the blue parties when you cannot also see that it actually helps the mink industry to take this situation seriously. Because if the minks had not been killed, the covid-19 would have spread even faster on the Danish mink farms. We had had even greater risk of mutations, and we had had even more mink growers who at this time had at least probably been infected with covid-19. I think it is obvious that the risk of infection is not taken seriously by the bourgeois parties. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030170606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030170608	Thank you. There is not much to replicate on, except that I can then reveal that here, when the rapporteur of the Left is going to be on the floor today, one of the questions I am going to ask the rapporteur of the Left is what the plan of the Left is. For the moment, I think that I share the view of the rapporteur from the SF that we are under wild fire because we are actually looking after public health. It is clear that when one makes one criticism after another and one wants to sit on the power of government in this country, then the least one can ask is that there should be an alternative to a plan. I have been calling for this since the conciliation meeting last Wednesday. I have offered to attend meetings on this and so on, but I am not aware of any concrete plan from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030170645	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030170650	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I can well hear that the proposal for adoption that has been put forward here has created a huge resurrection. I am rather surprised because what is in the last paragraph, on which particular attention is focused, is that new litter should not be set in motion if it is the case that the health and veterinary authorities consider that there is an unacceptable risk of infection. Now I could hear that the rapporteur is a former school teacher, and then you can always do a negation test to see if the opposite view would make sense. This would then mean that we should write that the Folketing is therefore instructing the government to ensure that new litters of mink are started after the coming furry season, even though the health and veterinary authorities consider that there is an unacceptable risk of infection. I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether, after all, it would not be much more uncertain if it were such a proposal for adoption that was before us.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030170740	Yes, and I also think that we can ask the rapporteur of the Left when they stand up here, in other words whether they really want to put mink in the world, and whether they really want to stop the efforts being made at the moment, when we know that there is a risk that this might affect the effects of a future vaccine. This is not something that I think we should ignore in any way. It is, after all, about some of our most vulnerable people in this country, people at our elderly centres, people who have a reduced immune system, etc. We can see that you can die from this covid-19, and there's a vaccine that's absolutely essential for us to actually save lives. So when there is a risk of that and a pointer is actually raised by the Danish health authorities that we should be careful not to become immune to a future vaccine, then I am quite confident and also happy and proud of a government that actually cares about public health.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030170834	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030170839	Thank you. I stand here with the proposal for adoption and it is quite right that the government will ensure that no new litter is started if there is an unacceptable risk of infection associated with it. If we now assume that it is not the case that there is no unacceptable risk of infection, can the government guarantee that it will present a plan to ensure that the mink industry survives, so we will have a mink industry next year and in future?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030170904	Social democracy has no hidden agendas or agendas hidden under the carpet that in future there will be no mink industry in Denmark. So if it's medically sound, we want this industry to get along well, of course. And as I have already explained, we are having another question debate a little later today, and there we are giving a clear indication that we actually want a debate with all the parties in the Folketing. And I hope that New Citizens will accept the outstretched hand and that we will actually sit down at a table.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030170942	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030170944	We would certainly like to take part in this. But these are important decisions we are making at the moment. The Mink business is deeply concerned about what's going on. We are here too, and I am sure that the Social Democratic Party is. But we risk, of course, with the very drastic means that we are now using on a very weakly founded basis, that we simply cannot continue the mink business. So I would like to ask whether the government will guarantee that it will come up with a plan that will ensure that we continue to have a mink industry next year and in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030171019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030171021	Now I have opened the question that comes in F 10. It is precisely about the fact that we would like to have a mink production in Denmark. So I would like to accept that we actually take it extremely seriously and ensure that in 5, 10 and 15 years there is also a mink production in Denmark also after covid-19. Then I would like to thank the rapporteur for the factuality of reading the text of the proposal for adoption correctly and also acknowledge what is actually said here from the platform, without distorting words. I think that serves the Danish people's rule in honour.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030171050	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030171054	▪ Simply: The meeting is about our survival. Just about that. Nothing else. Otherwise, the mink business won't be there next year. It is the chairman of the minkkeepers, Tage Pedersen, quoted in the Agricultural Newspaper for saying before the meeting that has taken place today with the Minister. I would like to ask the Socialist rapporteur: what is the rapporteur's response to Mr Seligman's question? Take Pedersen?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030171122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030171124	I'm not an expert on this. I have explained very clearly that we have an intention that Danish mink production should survive in the future too. Now Mrs Ulla Tørnæs and I have been elected in the same electoral area, and I also know that there have been mink farms with infection in that area, among others. mink farms, which are very close to nursing homes. I will not be able, I think, to say morally that we simply have to stop the killing of mink very close to, for example. nursing homes which pose a health risk, including: may cause a future vaccine to fail. In fact, I do not think that is what the rapporteur of the Left thinks at the end of the day. That is where we must put public health first. I can't tell in a glass ball where we'll be exactly in half to a whole year. We have never been in a corona situation like that today. We can see that some countries in Europe have almost barricaded themselves and had a curfew. Denmark has come much better through this covid-19 situation than many of the countries with which we compare, and this is due, among other things, to. the precautionary principle applied by the government. This is because we have actually listened to medical advice, and that is wise, and that is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030171240	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030171242	So if I understand the Social Democrat rapporteur correctly, the answer is to Mr. Take Pedersen disheartening: The industry does not exist next year. That is how I must deduce the answer given by the Socialist rapporteur. If we were to have some more optimistic glasses on, would the Social Democrat rapporteur be prepared to ensure that the industry has, after all, some breeding animals that we can continue to work on, should this happen so that the last sentence of the proposal for adoption here is not fulfilled? So that the health and veterinary authorities consider that there is an acceptable risk of infection, not an unacceptable one?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030171327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030171329	To the first: a very clear rejection. That is not the way the rapporteur of the Left can interpret what I am saying, and I do not think it suits anyone to put words in their mouths. Secondly, I know that there is at present a dialogue between, among other things: the industry, even though how the industry is doing after this covid-19 situation, and the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030171349	Thank you. Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030171351	Thank you. I mean, I don't think it's strange that the Left is deeply, deeply concerned about the socialist line in this matter. The Social Democratic Party has made a proposal for adoption together with parties that want to shut down Danish mink production and brag about it from the same platform on which the rapporteur stands. It is a common text that has been produced. There are three points in the proposal for adoption. One is that the Folketing supports the government... at least those who sign this. The second is that the Folketing expresses a concern about the corona virus. And the third point is that the Folketing is imposing something on the government. The only thing under that heading is what those who want to cut down mink production are sitting and clapping their hands over. That is precisely the possibility for breeding animals. That is the only point that has been made. No mention has been made of the handling of mink feed cars, mucking out or other things, that is to say, something that the individual mink can do something about. One point is highlighted, and it is clear that we are concerned when the Social Democratic Party, together with the supporting parties that want to dismantle Danish mink production, highlights only one point: there must not be an unacceptable risk of infection associated with breeding animals. No, of course not, but that is the only point that is highlighted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030171515	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030171517	Now, sir. Thomas Danielsen sat much longer in the Folketing than you did, but I still think I will tell Mr. Thomas Danielsen, that a proposal for adoption must now be only 150 words. And now we are not going to quote from closed debates, but I can at least look at the proposals made by the Left that it has been very important for the Left that it is short proposals for adoption that come forward here today. I am by no means ashamed of our support parties or this proposal for adoption. In fact, I think that it is a little paradoxical, yes, perhaps even a little shocking, if the Left rapporteur does not think that there is any concern in relation to the covid-19 situation we see in Denmark. I think that is obvious, and any party that courtesy the government should take it very seriously and exercise a precautionary principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030171600	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030171602	Okay, I'll ask you another way. Will the rapporteur highlight those parts of the proposal for adoption which should give a little bit of optimism to the mink industry in Denmark, in other words something that looks forward? There are two ways of highlighting something: either something that is just looking forward positively, or something that should give rise to optimism for the mink industry when this proposal for adoption is adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030171623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030171625	I think that is a very paradoxical question, because normally when we sit in consultation or are in the Chamber we are told that we have to deal with the question debate or the consultation that is currently taking place. This question is about the fight against infection; it is not about the mink production of the future. That is the question that the Left has called for, in a moment, that is to say the question debate called F 10, and that is where we shall be, Mr President. Thomas Danielsen, with a text that actually invites you to the table. And I very much hope that Mr. Thomas Danielsen chooses to say that now the Left is constructively entering these discussions rather than just running zigzag course and looking for the holes in the cheese. I just have to remind you quietly that if there isn't a hole in a cheese, there's rarely a cheese.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030171709	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carsten Kissmeyer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030171713	Thank you. Can it not be said that the government has run into problems with the strategy that you have because you simply cannot beat the sick animals down? They actually get better before you get to that process. I would also like the rapporteur to define when the risk of infection is unacceptable. And the next thing I want to hear is what the plan for breeding is if the mink industry is to continue and survive, even if new litters may not be coming now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030171742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030171744	Many questions were asked. I'll try to see if I can reach them all. One of the questions was, as I heard the rapporteur say, when something is unacceptable or when something is a risk. That is what I heard the rapporteur say, and it is when there are clear recommendations from the health authorities that this represents a health risk to the population. The whole world is currently in a covid-19 situation. In some places you can't go out, in some places you have to stay inside. Thousands of people have died. In Denmark, we are currently seeing large numbers of infections in the population. A lot is being done to keep this disease down and keep this disease at bay. So when the Left MEP here starts to problematize that we are not doing enough for the mink industry, then I just don't think that's right, because we are having meetings with the mink industry. And the rapporteur of the Left knows very well that we have never been in this situation before in Danish society. So to say that one should almost have detailed plans for something that one does not know, I think, in fact, is also a little irresponsible or, at least, substantially optimistic of the Left Member.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030171859	Sir. Carsten Kissmeyer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030171901	I understand that I cannot be told when this is unacceptable. Will the rapporteur respond to the plan we now have, when we are knocking down mink and you are actually so behind that mink crews will recover before they are knocked down?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030171916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030171918	I know a lot is being done to knock down these mink crews. Employees are being put in, and we have actually also offered by the government that mink farmers even for an hour's wage can help with that effort. It is clear that at the moment thousands of minks are being knocked down. I think we are actually up about a million minks, which have been knocked down at the moment, but the challenge is that this infection is going very fast, and that is really the challenge in this whole problem of the pandemic. I think the government is running a sensible lead at the moment. I can say that it is in stark contrast to what we hear from the Left. The left will stop killing infected mink and actually completely ignore the clear and clear recommendations which, among other things, are: is from the Statens Serum Institut.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030172006	Thank you. I just got a little service message. When it says 00:00 on the display, it is because the speaking time has passed. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030172017	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for trying to respond. Now I have been listening for quite a long time to the answers that have come and I think that there are two observations I can make. One is that really, very much is being spoken to fear instead of talking to the knowledge that is about this problem. I do not think it is dignified to stand and talk to fear and try to speak up fear among the people when there is a question for me. If you want to apply a precautionary principle, it must not turn into an ignorance principle, and it will be quick if you cannot define exactly what the risk of infection is and what an unacceptable risk of infection is. I would therefore ask the rapporteur to explain: what is an unacceptable risk of infection?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030172130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030172132	An unacceptable risk of infection is, for example, when we are clearly told by the Statens Serum Institute that if we do not do anything about the infection that is among the Danish mink, it could affect the development of a future vaccine that is currently at stage three, so that it may not be able to help people who are infected with a covid-19 variant from mink. That was a clear and clear answer, and I hope the questioner can use it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030172200	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030172202	Thank you. It wasn't a clear and clear answer, and that's why there's always a frustration coming out of this conversation. It is because there are no clear and clear answers to that question. It's up to an assessment somewhere that floats in space. You have to sit down and give a precise answer to these questions, because there are people who live off this, there are people who are counting on this, there are people who have invested their whole lives in this, and you can't just let that shut down. May I have a clear answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030172236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030172238	We are very concerned about them too, and we have the greatest and deepest sympathy for the mink farmers who are in this situation at the moment. I can't help it if the Left's questioner doesn't want to acknowledge the answer I'm going to give. I think I must say quite frankly and with my hand on my heart that it is a serious risk that a future vaccine will not work. I think that is something we should look at in relation to public health. Here I understand that the Left does not want to look into it. They just want to let go, they want to let the infection gallop, and then we'll have to see how this ends in the end. That seems to me to be taking a risk, and I think it is gambling with human lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030172325	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur, so thank you to Mr Seligman. Anders Kronborg. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030172341	Thank you. The left line is perfectly clear. Public health is most important and people come first, but there must be coherence and proportions in the things that we put together and drive for. We've been able to keep track of how the infection has spread. It started in North Jutland and then went down through Jutland, but what it is really all about in connection with the first query is to stop the infection, it is to secure the future of the mink industry, and it is timely to save as much of the mink sector as possible now and get it into the future while, of course, we act in a sound way. I actually thought that was what we had an understanding with the Social Democratic Party about. The Social Democrats have now put themselves in trouble, as we have seen right now with this proposal for adoption, but I would still like to say clearly as the rapporteur of the Left that we have not been called for any negotiations at all on this matter yet. There has been a short technical meeting and prior to that there was a brief briefing. But I would like to make it quite clear from the Left that we will come for negotiations if we are invited to negotiations for these things. We need to stop the infection immediately, we need to bring the mink sector safely into the future, and we need to act in good health and there are a number of things we need to focus on. And, of course, it is also very much about the animal breeding business. Then we'll just have to say that we'll have to stop it immediately by knocking down a healthy mink. There's no need to spend a lot of gunpowder knocking down healthy mink, let's stop it right away. And then there will have to be much more speed, which will speed up the process of free testing of the herds which have been infected and which are then on their way to recovery. We have seen the first example in North Jutland, and all we have to do is get a good start on this, because then we can also say, from there, get a basis for breeding animals, so that as a business you can see a light at the end of the tunnel and get on with this. And, of course, this is about the 7.8-kilometre zone, which is so much to be changed that it will fit more into reality, into the world, so that you do not use the gunpowder to slaughter healthy mink. And then, we think, a re-start package, a package for the future, where you clearly get some points on so that the mink industry can see that there is a way forward • lightning-fast payment of the money that has been put in view so that there can be a calm about it instead of the unrest that is around it. So we have to stop the infection, and it is about focusing the work, and there we can just note that what the government has been working on so far has failed so far, when too much effort has been spent on slaughtering healthy mink instead of focusing all the effort on knocking down the newly infected herds. So we can say that we are ready to pull the work clothes. After all, it is more urgent than it is hunting, because it is close to the fur season, because it is just on the verge of getting started, and the government is unhelpful afterwards, and that has the consequences that it has. Now this is also about SF's request, and I have marked our plan. Then I would just like to say to the SF, when it is their question debate that lies here, that we have to deal with the consequences of what is being proposed and the social consequences are being completely ignored. There are more rapporteurs who have already asked about jobs, lack of money, at least the much less money in the Treasury than you see in an average year. So we can say that all the social consequences have not been touched upon. It is also about the human consequences, because what about all the people, citizens who work every day in the mink industry and are associated with the mink industry in different ways? There is the transport sector, there is the services sector, there are builders, there are many other areas. There are veterinary people who are veterinarians and what are all these people going to do in the future? The SF has not dealt with this, and we shall then have to ask about it later in the debate. The SF's rapporteur then got around it by not having his proposal for adoption read out so that we could have it included in the debate. It was an oversight, and that may be the case, but if it was that we had heard it before the rapporteur had finished the speech, we would of course have asked what the definition of this is about the unacceptable, but there may be an opportunity to ask about it a little later. It may also be that the rapporteur himself can make himself aware of this, because the current situation is surely what the SF considers unacceptable. And then we have the situation that no new mink can be inserted. Is that what SF's assessment is in this? We have to say that it has been well done by the SF, from the SF's point of view, to get this sneaked into the text of the adoption and thus put the governing party in trouble. That is what the speaking time was for now, and then we take the questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030172907	Then there are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Anders Kronborg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030172911	One almost gets the impression that the Left rapporteur is more concerned with popularity points than with public health in Denmark. I would like to drill into it a little and ask why there has been the very clear zigzag course in the Left Party, which courtesy of government. We have the Left member of the European Parliament's Committee on Agriculture, Asger Christensen, who has called for action against the state, among other things. Because you killed sick mink. We have the rapporteur of the Left here on the platform who says that there must now be more turbo, not on Funen, but in relation to the minks, we have the rapporteur of the Left who, on Wednesday, criticised the killing or killing of sick animals. So it's a total zigzag course from the left side. I would like to ask: What is the reason why you have not taken a clear and clear stand? Then the rapporteur of the Left from the Parliamentary Chair mentions that the Left has I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left if we could see that plan. The Left rapporteur has my email address, so I want to know whether the Left rapporteur will promise me either in this debate, or when the debate is finished, to be gracious and send me the Left's plan so that we can see clearly what the Left wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030173029	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030173031	Well, as I have pointed out several times: the Left's course is completely determined by this and if the Social Democrat rapporteur will listen to just a little of what I am saying, then it is very clear that there are no slips in the waltz on the Left side. We need to secure the mink and fur business in the future. Then I am actually surprised that the Socialist rapporteur is beginning to ask questions when it is that I can then see the reports of the rapporteur's own party, the Social Democratic Party. I am also surprised that the rapporteur has to go all the way to Brussels just to try to find some other statements in relation to that, but it strengthens me that there is a clear course in the Left, and I have marked it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030173106	Here you go, sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030173108	Then I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur can confirm that, in fact, in a conciliation procedure only two days ago, the problem was that the mink infected with corona was killed. I would just like to hear whether the rapporteur of the Left can confirm this, that is to say that the rapporteur of the Left himself has problematized it, so that today we can actually call for more turbos to be added to the killing of the sick mink. In any case, it is within 48 hours something that, compared to what I'm going down, stands in all directions. So why do the rapporteur's views stand in all these directions?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030173143	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030173144	I understand that the Social Democrat rapporteur has an interest in trying to make it look so weird on the screen, but if the rapporteur listens carefully, it is clear that the maneuver has to be derived, because when it is, the government and the Social Democrats themselves have come unhelpably behind in this matter and have run on and slaughtered on healthy mink, then the focus has been forgotten. What I have said quite clearly is that we should stop butchering at the healthy mink, and then we should as well as possible see to it that the mink that has been infected are free tested, so that we can secure the germinal material. And then there may be some specific assessments. The rapporteur himself referred to an example before: if there is an infected person close to some things which, on a professional basis, says that that crew must necessarily be cut down because there is no other option, then that is what we have to do. But we must ensure that as many people as possible are free-tested.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030173239	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030173242	Thank you. I have to be honest and say that I think the Left has had a totally unacceptable approach to this spread of infection in the Danish mink herds. In other words, that the health risk has not been taken more seriously and that the mutation hazards that we have been warned about by the Statens Serum Institute have not been reacted more violently, I think, is under all criticism. And every time we in the Socialist People's Party have tried to make it about health, the Left is trying to turn the debate on the future of this profession and on how to keep it alive. But now that the bourgeois parties have used so much energy to criticise this proposal for adoption, I would really like to hear the position of the Left on the latter. Does the Left want a new mink to be placed in the world, if the health and veterinary authorities consider that there is an unacceptable risk of infection associated with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030173344	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030173346	If the Left had had the power of government, I am quite sure that anyone who wanted to sit over in the ministerial chair would have said a long time ago: what would it take to ensure the future of mink production in Denmark in relation to the situation we are in, including, of course, the creation of conditions in order to put the mink on a safe, sound and also health basis? Then we would not have gotten into the situation we have come in at all. And that is what the SF has supported in relation to the Social Democracy and the Government, that is to say that we have been put in that situation at all; it is a confession case when it is that the SF writes such a proposal for adoption. It is, of course, clear that we have that situation. You should never have allowed that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030173428	Here you go, sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030173430	How will the Left ensure that you are not in a situation where there is a risk that the Danish mink herds will be infected? I would very much like to hear an answer to that, because it could be extremely interesting. The reason why the government cannot give a clear answer to whether new minks should be put into the world is that there is a health risk to it and that you do not know what the future holds. I would very much like to hear if the Left has an idea of how we can ensure that we stop the infection completely. It seems to me that it is very, very difficult to do if you want to continue with mink production, especially at the high level that we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030173505	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030173506	Well, I have on several occasions, and I should like to repeat this, marked that our priorities in this area have been wrong. They should have been such from the beginning of the week at a much earlier stage that they should not be slaughtered on healthy minks. One should have focused one's energies on knocking down the newly infected. And now that we are in this situation, we need to get as many of the crews who have been infected as possible who are on their way to getting through it. And then I have taken note of that, too, I assume that the SF's rapporteur has the scaremongering that the SF paints up to the public that it is absolutely horrible about infection in relation to the population. I would just like to refer to the experts who say otherwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030173546	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030173552	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. Well, I understand that the Left has always been in favour of the slaughter of sick herds, and that it was also opposed to the precautionary approach, which left the disease on the farms. There it was evidently also the Left's view that they should be put down. It's new to me. But what I would like to ask is about the health prospects that we were discussing in relation to this, and Mr. Erling Bonnesen that we should now consider the consequences of the proposals put forward. Well, I'd just like to know about Mr. Simpson. Erling Bonnesen has considered the consequences not only for Denmark, but globally, if it is the case that a resistant variant of coronavirus arises, which means that right now billions of dollars are being invested in developing a vaccine against it, and I am thinking of all the research resources that are being spent on everything that the whole world is focusing on right now, namely trying to develop a vaccine with a certain degree of effectiveness. Did Mr. Erling Bonnesen and the Left considered what consequences would it have if a resistant variant could arise because of mink production in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030173700	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030173704	Well, I'm quite clear that the questioner has an interest in trying to do controversy about it. I shall try to reply within the speaking time I have here and just say: if we could run it through from the beginning, then it is about not using the strength to knock down the healthy mink, go after the newly infected and then get those who are or were at risk, and in the situation we are in now, get rid of as many as possible to secure some germinal material in the future. We have also listened to researchers who say one thing and researchers who say the other, and I can say within the speaking time I have here, and I think it is also the questioner who knows that there are researchers who say: well, it is not the mink industry that is the problem for society. I can also refer to the answer given by the Minister himself that there are only four people throughout Denmark, at least according to the reply we received a few days ago outside the mink sector infected with minkcovid. It tells us something about what the researchers have also said, namely that you have to pay attention to it, but that it is a theoretical situation, a risk that you have to be aware of, and it is also emphasised that once the vaccine is there, they have clear expectations that then you can stop the vaccines after it. So the scare picture I hear in it, like that, I don't think it's there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030173820	Thank you. Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030173822	Well, that is not exactly a scare picture, because that is precisely what has been warned against, namely that there may be a fear, and it is true that it is not something you say is going to happen, but there is a fear and a justified fear that the mutations that occur through the mink farms, because it runs through very many individuals, may result in resistance or, at least, less effectiveness in relation to a vaccine. There, then, one should only consider what consequences it will have not only for Denmark but for the whole world community if it means that a strain of virus that is resistant to vaccine can occur. That's kind of just what I'm asking, sir. Erling Bonnesen to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030173905	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030173907	Well, I can hear that the basis for the second question here is fear. It's fear, and it's gonna be scary pictures. Because I also assume that the questioner himself has seen the reports of the researchers who point to and have said that attention should be paid to this, but we should not panic, and they also say that they themselves expect that when the vaccine is there they can stop those vaccines as they are under control. You also say that it is not the mink sector that is the problem for the rest of society in this case that it should be taken calmly, so I expect the rapporteur himself to be aware of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030173943	Thank you. Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030173946	I have full respect for the veneration which the rapporteur of the Left and the many from the Left, who have shown up today, have for Danish mink production and for the efforts to save this industry in this extremely difficult situation, but we also have to discuss the price. What we are looking towards now is a situation in which about 20% of the population are in the region. of the Danish mink herds are infected, and where it is about under 40% that have to be reduced, at a price of about 1 billion. kr., I think we're on right now. When it is, is it making a temporary ban with compensation? Nobody comes and pulls the blanket off under the mink industry. There are rules on compensation. Is that the way we should go? Or should we risk doing the same as we did this autumn: to let more or less stand and then the infection spreads and we need up to 1 billion. kr., maybe even more, to knock down the crews again and compensate the mink owners? It's the two ways we can go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030174110	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030174112	I understand that the radical rapporteur is in doubt because it flies around with all sorts of information and some can take one down and others can take the other down. I have just highlighted the clear position and direction of the Left in what I have also replied to repeatedly, and I am also curious to hear what the radical position is going to be, whether we should have mink in the future in Denmark. I hope the Radical Left feels that way. And when, just to take one piece of information, only four citizens in the whole of Denmark outside the mink sector are currently infected by minkcovid, then it puts things in a new framework. Then it is clear that one has to listen to it a lot when some of the researchers say that it is not the mink industry that is the problem for society in this. Scientists are clearly counting on it to get control of it, but they must, of course, draw attention to it. Then I agree with the radical rapporteur that it is a pity that some people are blowing it up and running it into some kind of scaremongering campaign, and I think it is crazy to do so when we, at least in the Left, want us to have a mink sector in the future. So this is also driven by a completely different agenda. We can clearly hear that. First, the mink business needs to get out of the map. Next time it will be pig production, and next time it may be cattle, and then we will not have any of it on the map at all. It's completely gone for us in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030174234	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030174236	I do not think I was given an answer to my question because it is actually quite specific to me. After all, this is about what we are doing now in connection with the next furry season. Should we risk hitting, yes, perhaps not just half of our Danish mink crews down, perhaps even more, at a price of over 1 billion. kr.? Are we gonna take that chance? Or could the Left consider providing the mink owners with compensation to wait a season to start a new mink crew? That is the question. It's not like we're going to wind up mink or not. It is whether we should skip a season because we look into a situation in which we may have to beat them all down again with the costs it has, both for compensation but also for dismantling mink herds.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030174325	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030174327	Well, the rapporteur is quite right in saying that it is urgent to deal precisely with this. One cannot just skip a season, as the rapporteur proposes, because one has to ensure the unique Danish breeding strain that we have in Denmark. It is, of course, the basis for our having the best minkskin in the world. So you can't just say away with the whole thing, and then we buy some new ones abroad. That is not true, because then we do not have that basis for it. Then all those who come and buy the world's best minkskin into Denmark, also because we have the world's best animal welfare, will not come because it is then gone. However, the rapporteur is right that we should now see whether we are being called for some negotiations. We're gonna show up to help try to set a constructive course on this, and it's about a lot more speed at which to get on full speed, and get some of the infected people free tested to ensure a breeding basis. And I have answered the other points earlier in the debate, so I do not want to repeat that, nor do I have enough speaking time to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030174417	Thank you. Then it's mr. Egil Hulgaard, Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030174420	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. Now the left is talking a lot about the health risk of this mink variant, and I would like to ask a few clarification questions about it. Has the rapporteur heard anything about the 174 infected with the mink variant having had a particular course of illness or that they have not been able to develop immunity to this particular variant? Now we have no vaccine, so it's all future music, and there are 321 vaccine candidates in development. Does it not require a high level of imagination to imagine that none of them will be susceptible to a vaccine when vaccine researchers even say that modern vaccines will also cover the mink variant? Last question: do we really not need more knowledge?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030174522	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030174524	Thank you. Now I'm not a health expert, so I can just listen to the information that lies there. The questioner is quite right that there are some researchers who say one thing and some who say another. But overall, you can at least look at it. As I also understand it, there are clearly researchers and experts who say that it is not the mink sector that is the problem for society in this, based on the clarification on the four. So I also understand that if this disease hits a mink crew, it runs very quickly, you might say, through the minks, very quickly through the crew, and by that I think we are over with some of the things the questioner is touching. That's why it's also about us running through the crew so fast and we're so close to the furry season, so just then we need to use the knowledge that if we can get a lot of the infected crews free-tested, we have a good breeding basis for the future too, which must be one of the things that we need to speed up as well as at full speed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030174626	Thank you. Then there's no more questioners. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Lise Bech, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030174632	Thank you. This question was really about the health risk of covid-19, but it's kind of like we're going another way. But so, I actually think this is an interesting debate, because is there a health risk in relation to covid-19 mutations and mink? We don't really know. The Minister himself has helped to stir this concern by defending the decision to kill millions of minks with the particular mutation that exists in mink, in other words that it should develop in a way that a future vaccine would not work. It is, of course, a vaccine that we do not yet have, which is why I would just like to say, perhaps particularly to the Minister, that non-infected mink farms, i.e. farms that have healthy mink, cannot in themselves develop mutations. So let those healthy farm the animals and keep the breeding animals... it's next week. Well, the FDA's people and the minkkeepers won't get them killed anyway. Let's get them furry. Then we can keep some money in the box, and then they can get some money for their furs. Then I would like to point out, because we are constantly talking about the Serum Institute, etc., that Professor of infectious diseases at Rigshospitalet Jens Lundgren has been mentioned several times today... he has said that when we have a vaccine that works, we will manage any mutations that might come from mink. That is actually what the debate is about here. On October 15th there was an interview with Professor Jens Lundgren. He denies that mincmutation is a particular problem for vaccine development and effect. In a longer article on concerns about the spread of corona worldwide, vaccine development, safe human testing in phase three, time horizon, Russian vaccines and minkmutations, Jens Lundgren says reassuringly about vaccine development in relation to mutation in mink. He is asked what danger he sees, compared to the fact that SSI has found five examples that the virus is mutated in mink and thus sent out among the Danish population, i.e. whether there is a danger that the mutation may affect a possible vaccine. Now we know then that there are four people infected with this mink virus. Jens Lundgren answers that we know that this virus mutates like any other virus, but that the minks, with all due respect for Denmark as the world's belly, are not the problem in relation to the corona virus, in that it is a pandemic that mutates throughout the world, including in us people. Because from the point of view of the virus, we're a new host. It didn't know us until November 2019 and therefore it adapts. We have also seen the flu virus: it also changes all the time. Therefore, it may be necessary at some point to change the vaccine composition to make it work if the virus changes. But that is not the question at the moment. The question is whether the 10-11 vaccine candidates we are testing now work or not. If they work, we'll keep track of the mutations. And then he goes on to say: as I said, I do not think it is Danish mink that is the problem. These are quite different challenges that we, as a world society, are facing at the moment. On 20 October, in the Committee on the Environment and Food, we received an e-mail with an action plan from LVK Mink Veterinarians concerning mink and covid-19. Around mutations they quite rightly write that covid-19 can mutate in mink, but that it is no different than in the humane world. This is happening all the time among both animals and humans, and the minks do not increase the risk. In the field of influenza, new vaccines are produced each year because of mutation. What is happening now has great costs, both human and economic. We have just been to a meeting here a couple of hours ago at the Minister's office, and veterinary director Hanne Larsen stated that mink becomes immune to the strain of the virus, which is why it has now been decided that we should try to freese, and in the zones where the first were infected it is then in North Jutland we freest, and if they go free and we say that they are completely free, they have become immune. Then it's a really good breeding material to go on with. What I then want is for the farms that lie around, the healthy farms, those that have never been infected, to be allowed to fur the animals and keep their breeding animals. We're closing down the mink business, and it's gonna happen if we don't do something. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030175209	Thank you. There's a couple of questioners. First, it's sir. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030175212	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I don't think you can compare the covid-19 to an ordinary flu with what we see happening around the world community, where people are dying, and where some of the most vulnerable and vulnerable people are having a really hard time during this pandemic. We know that soon there is a vaccine that hopefully can help some of these people, and I know that the Danish People's Party is a party that really cares about our elderly fellow citizens, including the nursing homes, and I would like to ask the Danish People's Party: If it turns out that there are some very, very clear indications and some very, very clear recommendations from the Danish health authorities, will the Danish People's Party dare stand up to the Danish mink industry? Does the Danish People's Party not think that it is public health that we put over mink?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030175315	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030175316	Public health is always first, and that is not what I am talking about at all, because the rapporteur says everything else that has nothing to do with it. Because the rapporteur is not an expert, and I am not just politicians. What we need to do is to listen to some more of the experts we have. And one of them, and there are several, is Jens Lundgren, who has been mentioned several times. There's also one named Astrid Iversen, who's a neurologist, and she's from Oxford University. What I have said and said several times, including to the Minister, is: let us consult more widely; let us hear those who really know something about this, because we are not just politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030175407	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030175409	I am very surprised at the answer I receive from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party here. We are on the one hand with our older fellow citizens, whom we really care about, and then we are on the other side with the situation in relation to mink. And what I clearly asked about was whether the Danish People's Party, if there were any clear recommendations from our health authorities, from the Statens Serum Institut, is not fully aware that then it is older citizens and public health who are above the minks.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030175441	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030175442	Then I think the rapporteur is hearing very badly, because I actually started by saying that public health is always at the top. I am just appealing for more experts to be consulted, because none of us here are experts.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030175501	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030175502	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I was a little surprised, however, by the sloppyness with which Mrs Lise Bech spoke in this matter. Now I am sitting on the Committee on Health, and what I have learned from Corona is that one should be careful to speak too clearly about what is going on. It is true that there are many experts and that there are many different views on this. Basically, we don't know what's happening. What we can see is that variants of coronavirus have emerged through mink mutations and that the mutations concentrate particularly on what is called the spike protein, which is also what the vaccines target. That's what means how the virus attaches itself to people. That is why it is just a question of the concern that was raised in relation to it, i.e. whether it is not someone we should take seriously. Mrs Lise Bech can easily find someone who thinks that you may not have to take it seriously, and then others say that we need to take it seriously. When we measure this up to the risk we face, is it not very sensible to listen to the fact that there is in fact something here that we should take seriously if it is the case that we should put public health at the top?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030175612	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030175614	Of course we must always take it seriously. What we should then just bear in mind is that some people who also know something about this say that it is quite common for the virus to mutate and that it has not been shown that minkmutations are more dangerous than other things; on the contrary, we have actually heard that they are less aggressive. But there are four people outside the mink business who are infected with this mink mutation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030175649	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030175651	Well, the virus always mutates. In fact, it is also the case that the virus always mutates into a milder form than the one that is today, because that is the way the virus survives. Because if the virus mutated into a more aggressive form, it kills the host and it's really stupid for the virus. So it's quite common, basic knowledge of the virus. What is just the problem is if the virus mutates into a direction where it has an effect in relation to a vaccine. Because although it is in a milder form, the corona virus is deadly, especially for vulnerable and vulnerable citizens. And a vaccine can easily have less effectiveness if it is just around the part that the virus mutates. And that's the concern you have to take into this picture, and that's the concern I can't quite hear from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030175736	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030175738	Now it has actually come to light that some people are also questioning whether the vaccine can vaccinate us humans a hundred percent. There's always a lot of if's and questions etc. What I am referring to is that several experts are out to say that this mink mutation is no more dangerous than anything else and that mutations are quite common. That is what the rapporteur himself said.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030175811	Thank you. Sir. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030175813	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur belongs to one of the parties which has made a great deal of progress on the proposal for adoption which we have presented together with, among other things. Social democracy. Then I just want to hear about something in relation to the last sentence. Does the Danish People's Party believe that new minks should be introduced if the health and veterinary authorities consider that there is an unacceptable risk of infection associated with this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030175840	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030175842	No, but I think we need to consult some more because this is so intrusive to the industry. They're family businesses, and they're going down on it. We can shut down the whole mink business, and we don't want that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030175900	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030175902	Does this mean that the Danish People's Party can support the proposal for adoption? Because it seemed like it was primarily what you were really angry about. We can, of course, consult others very well; we listen to a lot of experts, including those other than the health and veterinary authorities. A great many people have been referred to today. Can the Danish People's Party support our proposal for adoption?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030175920	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030175922	The proposal for adoption basically says that we should not have mink production in Denmark. Yes, it does, and we cannot support it. Because it's furry season, it won't be long before they have to bring in breeding animals. If it takes two years before the corona virus is out of the world and out of Denmark, then we cannot say that we should wait for that. We can't, because then the business is shut down.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030175954	Thank you. Then there are no more questions for the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030180014	This is a serious situation primarily for public health. The Coronasmitten goes like a steppe fire through the Danish mink industry. At first, we thought it was the common corona virus, but it was still worrying because we were afraid that it could help increase the level of infection in society in general. When we've been extra worried lately, it's because we've figured out that the infection can mutate in these mink herds, too, that a mink herd can actually be such a kind of reservoir for developing these new varieties. Yes, it is only a risk, but there is a risk that some variants will develop which, at best, may not completely eliminate the effects of the vaccines that are being developed, but at least to some extent undermine them. And yes, it's only a risk. I have also read the article in the Engineer today, where the researcher who is developing the Danish vaccine says that it may not be an imminent risk he is not using that word, but it is the message in the article that it is not an imminent risk. But we do have our health and veterinary authorities' word that it is and it is just the risk that there are always two perspectives at a risk: there is the probability that something happens, and then there is the seriousness of the prospects, if that is exactly how it is with this risk, and that is also how it was with the Chinese bat. How likely was there a bat that would develop this virus and shut down the whole world? It was certainly not large enough for us to have really dealt with this. But it happened, and now we see the consequences. Now we have a risk here that may not be imminent, but it is there. And it is a great risk to us, to our public health, but it is also a risk to the whole world's public health, to the world's investment in and work to develop a vaccine. It is in fact where this debate today shakes me a tiny bit: especially the bourgeois parties are not aware that this is so much bigger than Denmark and Danish mink producers. I agree that we must protect Danish mink producers. Nobody's talking about pulling the blanket underneath them and not compensating them. But this is a serious situation because we have mink production, an animal in which this virus apparently thrives incredibly well, an animal and a stock where mutations can develop. It's a unique thing. That is why we have a special responsibility not only to ourselves and to our mink growers, but also to the whole world. The task that the whole world is on right now, which is about developing a vaccine, is in danger of undermining. I just think you have to raise your eyes a little bit. And again, it is not about pulling the curtain away under someone and putting someone without compensation and support, but it is also about understanding that if this risk, which may not be imminent, becomes a reality, then the consequences are so infinite, not just for Danish minkavl, not just for Danish economy, not just for Danish public health, but for the whole world. I need some kind of recognition of that risk in the bourgeois parties. That is why we are in favour of the proposal for adoption today, because we do not want to take that risk, because public health is most important to us. That is why it is not difficult for us to accept that we should not, of course, put new litter into the world if they can pose a risk of infection, a serious risk of infection. It is again because it threatens ourselves, our own society, our own economy and, above all, our elderly, but it also threatens the health of the whole world. It threatens all the gigantic investments that are being made right now in developing a vaccine. This is the serious reason why we are considering whether we should perhaps spend money to compensate mink growers for not setting a litter in the world for the next season, or whether we should just hope that mink will not be infected by spring. Frankly, it seems quite unrealistic, as the infection figures are right now, that we should suddenly get rid of coronasmitte among minks. Well, it seems to me almost completely improbable. It is against this background that we need to discuss the future scenarios. It has nothing to do with whether you are in principle for or against mink; it has something to do with what we are doing right now and here in the light of our health crisis, but also in the light of the huge bill that we are going to face, regardless of which way we are going.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030180532	Thank you. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030180535	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. I have two things first about the future of the mink and then about the health. Is the Radical Left's position on the matter that I almost understand, but it would be good to put it in place if the Radical Left really wanted us to maintain mink production in the future? I don't want to start using words as a guarantee and all that. But what exactly is the position, the line? In other words, can the radical rapporteur confirm that we really want to see mink production in the future, as we know it and have known it? That's one thing. The second point is that, of course, we take this issue of the health challenges in this area very seriously. I also marked that when I stood on the platform before, i.e. that public health comes first and so on. So to try to get to the point of what it means in the future in relation to the litter: is it also the desire of the Radical Left that if anyone should come here after this, what we can hope to do, then try to reach the situation that there is a safe basis so that we can get into production, even next year? Because as I said earlier, you can't just take out a year. So is it also the radical Left's wish that we should reach that situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030180644	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030180646	Now I am not quite sure that I understood the last question; I shall try to do so. But on the first question: we do not want a ban on mink production, but I think we may still be somewhere else than the Left, because it seems as if the Left wants to protect Danish mink production at all costs. And there I think we have the same thing about mink production as we do with all sorts of other business sectors, and that is that they have to be there if they make economic sense, but I think it would be a bit crazy if we needed 1 billion. kr. Now, 1 billion. kr. again in the spring, 1 billion. kr. again in autumn and perhaps even more, that is, if it is the price of keeping the mink industry alive. Well, there we feel the same as with all other professions that it can't be at all costs. However, there is no doubt that no one should be left without some sort of rescue network, without compensation. That is not the way it is, but with regard to that approach, where you are just willing to post infinitely many billions after an industry, because it only has a value in itself, I would say that there is the mink industry for us no more sacred than other industries. They must be there as long as they make economic sense is economically sustainable, but if they suddenly become a gigantic cost to society, then I think we can discuss whether that is where society needs its funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030180806	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030180808	The second round here is very short. So we can say that if we sit there in a very short time, hopefully, and try to move on with this, then the clear approach of the Left to it is that we must have a good, strong and solid basis for us to have mink production in the future. It is also a question of putting into effect the right practical tools and decisions. So, like Radicals, will work in this direction if we sit over there, that is, that we now have to take the decisions that need to be taken in order to have a secure, calm and stable basis for us to have mink production in the future too? And then the time is not enough to bring out all the details, but can we just get such an overall approach to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030180848	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030180850	Yeah, I'd say yes to that. I think I can explain our position very briefly, and it is that we do not want to play games with public health to keep our hands under the mink industry. That's one thing. We won't gamble with it. We are listening to the health and veterinary authorities. We are not saying that they will have to find some other experts if they do not say what we want to hear. We follow them and we follow a precautionary principle. That's one line. The second line is about the economy. We would like to contribute to continued mink production in Denmark if it makes economic sense. However, we will not be contributing to placing infinite amounts of resources in keeping the mink industry alive if it is not sustainable in itself in the long term. And it is, in fact, the same approach that we would have to all other industries, neither more positive nor more negative.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030180952	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030180956	Thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on bringing such an international perspective with him. When it is actually just part of the request that it is directly on the screen up here that we talk about the health risk in Denmark and the EU and globally, so I am glad that it is being brought up a little. I would also have liked it to have filled a little more. But since the rapporteur is so extremely concerned about mutations and the spread of infections, can the Radical Left in any way imagine that it makes sense to put new minks in the world right here after the next fur season?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030181028	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030181031	That's what I'm having a really hard time imagining. For what is the scenario in which the infection in general in society almost goes down to zero over Christmas and into January-February? So it is very difficult for me to predict, and that is why the most realistic situation, if we did nothing, was that we put a new generation of mink into the world, and then in the spring we will be in exactly the same situation as we are in right now. Right now 182 farms are infected, which is probably about 20%. of the Danish mink crews, and then it is roughly the same number of such zone crews, i.e. healthy herds, which are being knocked down. So we're up about 30-40 percent. of the mink crews down this autumn, and we may well be in a situation where we will have to strike down even more in the spring, and then we again have the cost, which includes both the cost of compensating for the skins and for the operation of the breeding herds, but also to knock down mink herds, which is also a gigantic task. This includes hundreds of employees who are out right now, in addition to the producers themselves. So it's a gigantic bill and a gigantic task that we can look forward to if we close our eyes and then hope that the miracle happens and that there is no infected mink in the spring, and that's why we're looking at this opportunity. But of course it has to be with a view to what we can do for mink producers so that they can survive. For as long as mink production is allowed in Denmark, we cannot afford to pull the carpet away under anyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030181210	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030181212	If we then make such a stop for new mink to be placed in the world, but that we continue to hope that we can have mink production in Denmark, what does the rapporteur think about the fact that breeding animals are still standing around in the Danish mink farms, which can also be infected with covid-19, and where the virus can also mutate? Is it a viable road like paused by the industry, while at the same time you actually have some animals that don't have any new animals, but some breeding animals that are standing around? I mean, I think this break-up idea is a little tricky, and that's also why the SF would rather see the industry completely phased out.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030181245	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030181248	It is certainly an easier position; I agree with that. Because there is no doubt that it can be a really difficult and long road. Now we have one season that has been hard hit, and the next season will also be hard hit unless we make a temporary ban, and the next season again I suppose, because there is also something with a sluggishness if you finally get a vaccine. Because then it is not the case that everyone is suddenly being vaccinated, and that is why we need to have this larger and long-term, concrete and also fundamental discussion. My party is not in favour of a ban, but we do not have such a sacred relationship with mink production either, in the sense that we will fight for it at all costs, because there too the price can be too high, both for public health, but also for the economy. But there should also be no doubt that we have no intention of pulling the carpet away from under anyone. The Danish mink growers must of course be compensated both if they are subject to a temporary ban or if in the long run it simply does not pay to have mink production in Denmark because we look into a...
ParlaMint-DK_20201030181357	Thank you! Then it's mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030181400	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to start by asking Mrs Zenia Stampe if she thinks that the government's strategy in this situation has been a success, i.e. this strategy of killing, where you can potentially eradicate all mink throughout Denmark, stopped, that we have seen some examples of mink farms where there has been infection and which have passed through the period of infection and where the minks have produced antibodies. One could also have followed another strategy and said: we are trying to create an isolation strategy, make sure that people do not come out and enter the farm as long as there are outbreaks of infection on the farm and then one can then find that the minks have formed antibodies, and then they no longer infect. I would like the rapporteur's assessment of the two strategies. Does the rapporteur think that the government's strategy has been the right one and that it has been a success?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030181500	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030181502	I think it's very easy to be hindsight. If the strategy put forward by the Conservative rapporteur were to have succeeded, one should have had such a sort of curfew for workers on the farms affected. Then it should have been said: From now on, do not shop; your mates must not go to work; your children must not go to school; you must be completely isolated, and you and the mink crew must live in isolation until the mink crew is free of infection. Frankly, I do not think that would be realistic. I must also say that this is certainly not the strategy for which I have heard any of the bourgeois parties speak so far. Well, you should have been very smart and foresightful and said that several months ago when the first herds were infected. I didn't hear anyone say that. So it is infinitely wise to come behind and say that we should have done something quite different when the bourgeois parties did not even have that idea at the time. I am also not sure that it would have succeeded; I am not sure that it would have been okay to put the major restrictions on the families working in these minks.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030181610	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030181612	Thank you. I believe that this strategy could have been implemented in these 14 days or 3 weeks, or how long it should have been, to have isolated the people who were on such a farm and then built up immunity among the minks. But let's just leave it alone. I noticed that the rapporteur said that mink farmers should receive full compensation. I am delighted, because what the government has put forward is that only 20% should be given. in compensation for operating losses on farms where there has been infection, because they should be motivated to keep the disease out of the farm. However, I hear the rapporteur say that mink farmers must be compensated 100%, and I am delighted at that. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030181654	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030181656	No, that is not true, but perhaps I have not made myself clear enough. I think it is a fine compensation model that lies right now, when you get the auction price on your skin. I just want to say that it is infinitely better than what all other corona affected industries get in Denmark. This is the best compensation system in the world. But I can understand why, as a mink, one is infinitely saddened to be hit and had to knock down his crew, whether it was ill or healthy. However, it is the compensation scheme laid down in the veterinary law that applies, and it has to be said that the mink producers are fortunate, that it is the legislation and not the other aid packages that must be covered by, because they are much worse than the mink farmers are subject to.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030181739	Thank you. Sir. Egil Hulgaard, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030181744	Thank you. I want to drill a little bit into this health risk, which I also asked some of the other rapporteurs about. A risk could be that this mink variant was particularly pathogenic. Now we know that there are 174 infected with this mink variant. Are any of them getting specially ill? And then there's this postulated risk that the vaccine won't work. There are 321 vaccine candidates under development. There are vaccine researchers who say that the modern vaccines will also protect against the mink variant. And then there is the Statens Serum Institut's own expert, Anders Fomsgaard, who says that although there is a theoretical fear of a mutation, it should not be the main reason for killing mink. Does that not impress the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030181840	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030181842	I don't know if that makes an impression. I have also read those statements, and this is a risk, but what really impresses me is that we have some parties that, instead of following what is our authorities' recommendation and instructions, and they are, however, our experts in this area, picking quotes around to think that we should go a different way, and I think that is a tiny bit shocking in this health crisis. We must so sit and pick in various statements and bring them forward and that was the way we should go instead of following our authorities. Well, what do we need authorities for? What do we need our experts for if we are not to follow them? There is always an expert who thinks otherwise, and it is amazing that it is the case that there are often several sides to a case and that things are often about risks and not a hundred percent chance/risk of anything. The reality is not black and white, but I think we have a responsibility to follow them, which we have actually set out to guide us and which have the competences to do so. At least I don't want to gamble and pick quotes like that to find the words that suit me best.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030182002	Thank you. Sir. Egil Hulgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030182005	Now I was actually quite careful about who I quoted. I quoted Anders Fomsgaard, who is part of the team that makes those recommendations. I would like to see exactly what recommendations the government has received. I'm gonna read it one more time. What he says is: Although there is a theoretical fear of a mutation, it should not be a main reason for killing mink. He is actually saying that we should not do what the government and the support parties and the rapporteur are proposing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030182038	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030182040	Now I haven't taken it with me, but at the bottom of the Statens Serum Institut's opinion or assessment, it says there's a risk of mutations on this spike protein that can go in to undermine the work of developing vaccines, and it's the Danish Food Authority that has recommended this zone limit with the 7.8 km, as far as I remember. It's not like we invented a number. It is their best idea of how we avoid that the infection just develops or continues like a steppe fire around the mink populations. It's not like we made this up. After all, it is our best experts who have given us that advice and, to be perfectly honest, we dare not fail to follow it, because if a variant is actually developing that our vaccines cannot take care of, I will certainly not take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030182138	Thank you. Sir. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030182140	First of all, I would like to congratulate the radical rapporteur on some, I think, good considerations in relation to this subject. Now the rapporteur has been sitting in the Folketing considerably longer than I am, but I must admit that I will be a little sad when I hear this debate. It is well to note no longer than the end of June 2019 that there was a bourgeois majority in power in Denmark. We have also seen the then Minister for Health in this Chamber earlier this evening, and I think that today I hear a bourgeois Denmark almost express distrust of our talented people, among others. SSI, the health authorities, so I would just like to ask the rapporteur how the rapporteur sees these signals. Is it not, if I may say so, something rare that we are witnessing today that so many parties, as I hear, do not trust our health authorities in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030182236	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030182237	Yeah, I think so. And I understand that you can have a special veneration for a particular industry or industry and want to fight for it. But then I think we should look at what kind of compensation arrangements we are making, what kind of security basis we are putting forward for these industries affected. I think that would be a more responsible path than being prepared to compromise with public health, not just our own, but global public health, and the recommendations we receive from our authorities. In this way, there is plenty of room for you to burn for a profession and fight their cause. But I find it very difficult to understand that the fight would mean that public health would not be taken care of. I would understand much better if we had to have a lot of talk about compensation schemes, about this with breeding herds, that it is not good enough that you only get 20% if you are infected, and then we could have that discussion. But the fact that the discussion is really about having done something quite different, and that it would have been free of charge, is also such a little to take the discussion somewhere else, because now we are in this scenario and we cannot turn back time, and I really miss the Left's position.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030182355	Thank you. Sir. Anders Kronborg has the floor again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030182357	Thank you so much. I can say that I very much agree with the rapporteur and I have a supplementary question. Now we have heard here tonight that the Left has a plan. I have not seen the Left plan in relation to this, and I do not know whether the Radicals have seen the Left plan. At any rate, it is a question of whether you have seen it and whether the Radicals do not agree with you that when we have a party that courtesy for government, is so critical of our health authorities, is so critical of the government, it should also be reasonable for them to put forward their plan so that it could be checked in terms of whether it is better than what is happening at the moment, precisely by our health authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030182433	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030182436	No, I don't recall having heard a suggestion either. That's why it's so easy to come and say that you should just have done something else, and then it wouldn't have cost anything. Now we are in a situation where it is going to cost a lot of money, almost whatever way we choose, and then I really think that the bourgeois parties should relate to that scenario instead of constantly going back and dreaming that they themselves had come up with a different strategy. They didn't, and now we're here, and what do we do from here? I think that is the discussion we need to have, and I have to say that we are not willing to gamble with public health, and we really think it is also appropriate to have a discussion about what the different roads will cost and which way it is worthwhile to choose.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030182518	Thank you. Then there are no more questioners or comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030182527	Thank you for that, President. It is a very relevant request that SF travels here today and thanks for it to the SF because it is a very, very serious situation we are in. In fact, it is so serious that the Minister of Food himself, at a consultation meeting here on Wednesday, described the current situation as a threat to public health and a threat to society as a whole. I fully agree with the sober assessment, because the outbreak and spread of the corona virus have enormous consequences for our society, both economically and humanly. Therefore, great efforts have been made to reduce and contain the infection. We in Denmark have had a strategy of testing, tracing and isolation, a strategy that we in Enhedslisten have fought hard for and therefore fully agree with the government and support. The strategy has proved to be relatively effective. To a relatively large extent, it has been possible to detect the infected and contain the infection to an extent that has prevented the infection from spreading uncontrollably. But there has been one major exception. The mink farms have failed to break the chains of infection. Here the infection has spread from a few farms in Vendsyssel to most of North Jutland and further down to West and South Jutland. The virus even mutates quite violently when it gets through as many individuals as is the case in a mink herd. This has meant that very special strains of viruses have arisen, which can be directly related back to mink farms. What is particularly worrying, and which also leads to the serious words 'threat to public health', is that there is a real risk that some of the mutated strains of the virus may lead to reduced effectiveness or, at worst, resistance to the vaccinations being developed. If that risk turns out to be real, it will be a disaster of unimaginable dimensions. This may mean that while huge resources are being posted both in terms of research and economics in the development of a vaccine, at the same time a resistant strain of the virus can occur on Danish mink farms that can subsequently render a vaccine ineffective. It's a potential disaster. It is all the more surprising that the government did not intervene in the past. When the first known outbreaks on mink farms arrived in June, a precautionary strategy was put to death. A strategy was then developed to contain the infection by measures on hygiene and protective equipment. Despite the fact that it did not work, it failed to return to a more cautious approach. Even when the Statens Serum Institute pointed out on 4 September that the risk of the development of a resistant strain was present, an inactive strategy continued, and it was not until 1 October that infected herds were killed again, but the infection had already spread to an almost uncontrollable extent. This has had major consequences both for the mink growers concerned, but in particular for the spread of infection and for public health. The call to the government must therefore be that everything possible is now being done to prevent the virus from continuing to mutate through mink herds and thus becoming a potential public health disaster. The Enhedslisten supports the proposal for adoption which the SF rapporteur earlier read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030182910	Thank you. Sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030182913	Thank you. Sir. Peder Hvelplund's party colleague said at some point not long ago that it might make sense that we should not knock down all healthy minks now and then, like, change course etc. What's in it? Now I know that it was not the rapporteur who is standing on the floor now who said so, but after all a fellow party member, so there have probably been discussions about it. So I would like to hear what it is like to set the course there a little while while at the same time having the basic attitude and approach to it, as I understand it, that the whole mink production in Denmark will actually have been stopped. If there's something in it, it would be nice to have it solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030182954	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030182957	There is, in fact, only the fact that, in addition to the priority being public health considerations and ensuring that the infection does not spread, there is also a need to take into account how we spend taxpayers' money. And it is clear that taxpayers' money should not be used to compensate for a production which is still threatened with closure, and that is why it is equally possible to ensure that, to the extent that mink can be slaughtered and where the fur can be used, it is necessary to do so. And that's actually the only thing that's related to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030183025	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030183028	Thank you. Well, that's pretty much what I expected. So, the basic view is that Enhedslisten wants mink production in Denmark stopped, and that's what I thought. Then I would like to turn to the issue of health and that which we also had some advance in the debate earlier, when the situation was just the opposite, in terms of how we stand right now. So I will try to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur has also seen the various expert assessments and opinions that have been made, where, of course, the experts are urged to calm down, that is to say to pay attention to it, but that we should not blow it up. It is assumed that when the vaccines come, you have got it under control, meaning that the mink industry, that sector, is not the problem for the whole society in relation to this. You have to be aware of it, but you shouldn't panic.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030183111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030183113	Well, I think it's absolutely true that it's not just the mink business that's the problem with this. So, the risk that arises is that mutations occur through many individuals in mink herds, and this has resulted in some very special strains, and there is thus no disagreement about that. What has been questioned is whether this could lead to resistance to a future vaccine. I don't think anyone can say that for sure, but I haven't heard anyone say for sure that's not gonna happen either. And only because there is the doubt that it will be so crucial, both for society and for public health in general, that a vaccine with a certain degree of effectiveness can be developed, will we have to take seriously the risk that resistance may arise.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030183202	Thank you. There's no more questioners. I just want to know who is the rapporteur for the Conservatives. Is that sir? Per Larsen? Here you go, sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030183229	Thank you. I think what we are witnessing here today is deeply, deeply disappointing. I would almost say that this is the worst thing I have ever experienced as a parliamentarian. When you come up with such a text of adoption as that tabled by the Social Democratic Party together with the Alternative, Enhedslisten and SF, it is poison for the industry in every way. If there is something that the banks do not like, it is that uncertainty is created, and there is enormous uncertainty about the mink industry at the moment. With the text of adoption, there has been a great deal of uncertainty in terms of whether they should be allowed to grow on the mink they have, and then it is clear that then there will be banks that say: then we stop! And so you carry one more stick to the coffin you are doing for the future mink production in Denmark. I simply think it is awful that when you go out and say that you want mink production in Denmark, you help to shut down production. It concerns all the poor people who work with it every day, all the families who get their daily livelihoods from mink production, and I simply think it is almost unacceptable. A strategy has been put in place to kill healthy mink, to kill mink which has produced antibodies, to waste the 30 days that have passed since this strategy was laid down in relation to the 7.8-kilometre zone where hundreds of thousands of minks are killed. In fact, as many as 7 million minks now lie within those zones and are then to be killed. I simply think it is awful not to have checked that 7.8-kilometre zone by taking some tests of the minks that are in those zones, so that one could find out whether the theory on which one's strategy is based also holds water in reality, or whether that is just theory. One might well have made an effective isolation of the farms if that was what one wanted, so simply isolate the family and the employees who are there until the infection had passed over. After all, we see that the minks on farms today have produced antibodies, and they are probably not going to pose any threat to anyone at all. Then, of course, I am also extremely disappointed that there will be no full compensation for the mink farmers who are affected. Now we do not know how long this crisis is going to last for the mink industry, but millions of dollars are tied in mink production, which is why I think it is unacceptable that we should not go in and compensate 100%. The mink farmers who have had their animals infected have not themselves been responsible for this, and they have done all they could to keep the infection out. I talked to a mink a while ago, and he hadn't even brought his grandchildren out on the farm all summer and all autumn here because he was afraid that other people would come in than himself on the farm. So they have shown such caution. I really think it is a sad day when you come up with such a proposal for adoption as you are doing here, which creates so much uncertainty as to whether we can continue to have mink production in Denmark. After all, we are talking about 7 000 jobs and there are 5 to 6 billion foreign exchange income. kr., and there is plenty of good sense in producing the world's best mink under the best possible conditions, and if it is the case that it is phased out, then the mink must be produced elsewhere. I simply think it is really sad that, on the one hand, we are saying that we want the mink industry, but on the other hand we have such a text for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030183643	Thank you. Sir. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030183645	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I know, of course, that, alongside his new rapporteurship as rapporteur on food, the rapporteur is also the health rapporteur for his party and therefore often comes to the Ministry of Health. I would say that if I were currently an employee of the Ministry of Health, I would certainly have a bad taste in my mouth with the distrust that is being shown to our competent ministry, our skilled professionals, our skilled specialists in this area. I am now reading something from the proposal for adoption, which is being severely criticised. It contains three sections and I read out the last section: the Danish Parliament therefore requires the government to ensure that no new litter of mink is started after the coming furry season if the health and veterinary authorities consider that there is an unacceptable risk of infection. Will the rapporteur guarantee from Parliament's platform that if there is a clear warning from the Ministry of Health that it will pose an unacceptable risk of infection that threatens public health, then the Conservative People's Party will force mink into the cages, even if it can actually cost human lives?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030183755	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030183800	It goes without saying that we will not take any unnecessary risk in this way. However, for the postulates that are brought by the Social Democratic Party and the scare-mongering that was painted I followed very closely in the rapporteur's rapporteur's speech. I just have to say that it has gone up to a level that it cannot bear. For example, we were given an answer to a question asked by Carl Valentin, namely Question No. 74. That is where the Minister explains the risk, and it says, among other things, that: in relation to the risk: •Just as there is a theoretical risk that individuals who have already been infected may be reinfected because their antibodies do not protect against the new variants. It should be noted that other mutations in the Spike protein on the Sars-CoV-2 virus have also been observed in humans worldwide and in Denmark, and that it has been estimated so far that the current vaccine candidates will be able to cover the variations in the virus that have arisen over the spring. It should also be noted that the previously detected mink mutations do not show signs to avoid the effect of vaccination. This is very much in line with some of the other statements by experts who work with vaccines on a daily basis and who say that they can easily cover that up. So it's a question of which school you believe in.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030183925	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030183929	I didn't ask about the Social Democracy or the government. I specifically asked about recommendations from our veterinary authorities and from the Ministry of Health. I will try again and I hope that we will get a clear answer. When I stood up on the platform myself, I made a great deal of effort to give clear answers and not to ignore them, and I hope the rapporteur will do so. Will the rapporteur insist that there should be mink in the cages if there is a clear warning from our veterinary authorities and from the Ministry of Health that this would threaten public health and that it would be unacceptable? Will the Conservative People's Party still demand that there be mink in the cages? That is a very clear question, and you can say yes or no to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030184010	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030184013	Well, that depends on who's gonna judge it. What the authorities are doing is typically not a clear decision. They make some recommendations, and then it is a question of how to interpret those recommendations. When is that acceptable and when is that unacceptable? I think we should be careful not to over-interpret some of these things the authorities bring in. As far as this concern is concerned, in terms of whether a vaccine can be made to work, which also covers the mink variation, I think that the uncertainty that you draw a picture of is very, very weakly founded.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030184054	Thank you. There are no more too brief remarks. The last rapporteur is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030184106	Thank you for the floor. SF has raised a concern about the health risk mink poses as a source of infection of new covid-19. A large number of veterinarians have submitted a veterinary recommendation to the members of the Committee on the Environment and Food on 20 October 2020. They do not share SF's concern about this particular so-called mink-covid-19, as the SF calls it. These veterinarians have a good knowledge of the production of mink farms and mink farms, as they visit them several times a year. They also point out that all studies indicate that the infection is not airborne. They also criticise the ongoing slaughter of both healthy and sick minks and regard it as a declaration of failure. Instead, they believe that it should have been ensured that the sick animals are killed more quickly, since they are infected only in the acute phase. Because of the slow slaughter of the sick mink, several of them have recovered. Here the veterinarians believe that we should secure these minks and use them as breeding animals for next year's herd. In this way, we fight the covid-19 infection between mink and people and at the same time keep alive in a profession of great importance for Denmark and Danish economy. If you ask the veterinarians, the health risk of infection from mink to human beings should not lead to the closure of the whole mink industry. On the contrary, it should lead to the preservation of the minks that have lived through covid-19. We are therefore deeply concerned in New Citizens that we are shooting ourselves in the foot by removing the animals that have achieved resistance to the disease. These animals may prove to be gold in the fight against the disease. SF has announced in Altinget that they are going to shut down all mink growing in Denmark, and here are perhaps the real motives for SF's intense interest in covid-19 in mink. The main motive for slaughtering not only the minks but the whole mink industry without scientific evidence and thus losing the 5 billion. kr. In export earnings, therefore, is not only an interest in public health in Denmark, but also in breaking hard-working mink growers. The SF should tell the mink industry and the Danish people honestly. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030184327	Thank you. Sir. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030184330	I think it is ugly to speculate about the fact that we in the Socialist People's Party should be concerned about the risk of infection because we are generally opposed to the mink industry. In other words, we have been saying quite openly and honestly that we have been opposed to it for more than a decade. I have also explained why: it is about animal welfare, it is about animal ethics. But we are deeply concerned about public health too, and when we call for this question debate, it is, of course, in the direct continuation of a meeting we have been sitting at, with Kåre Mølbak of the Statens Serum Institute, who says that there is a risk that the virus may mutate in a way in mink that may potentially mean that future vaccines will not work. We don't call this all of a sudden because we have some hidden agenda. We call it because we are deeply concerned about public health, and I hope that new citizens too are.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030184423	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030184425	Well, we certainly are. I'm not a mind reader, so of course I can't know what the motives are. But I have to say that there has been a very intense interest on the part of the SF. As has been said many times, it has not been demonstrated at this stage that there is a significant risk to public health. There are differences of opinion on this, but so many have said that it is not expected to be there. Well, these are quite theoretical considerations that this should have such an impact on public health. You have to, like, weigh up different conditions when you do the kind of interventions that we do here. There we have to look at the risks and look at the consequences of the actions we are taking.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030184519	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030184522	I have not asked for a follow-up comment, thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030184524	Sir. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030184529	Well thank you very much, and thank you very much for the fact that we do not agree with the factuality that is, after all, added to the speech here. We have now had a debate over a few hours, and I have asked both to the Left and also to the Radical Left whether there has been a plan, whether there is a plan, and I have been completely confirmed that no one has seen that plan by the Left, even though the Left is very busy criticising the efforts in relation to this. There I want to hear whether a party like New Citizens, which is currently growing and congratulating it, has seen a plan from the Left in relation to their bid to solve this, or has New Citizens also only recorded criticism? It may well be that you have turned a plan with your fellow citizens. So I would like a clear answer as to whether New Citizens are aware of an overall plan by the Left as an alternative to the efforts put forward by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030184628	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030184630	We are very much looking forward to being called to the negotiations which we will then be discussing in the next question and which are apparently on the way. We believe that these are very violent and very drastic measures that have been taken, with this 7.8-kilometre zone, where all living minks are rejected, based, as I understand it, on a statistical analysis without any logical explanation of why this should be necessary. So I really hope that we can find a way to do this so that the mink industry can also survive and have the opportunity to keep the animals they need so that they can continue the profession next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030184712	Then it's mr. Anders Kronborg again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030184730	Thank you for that, President. I note that new citizens have not seen a plan from the party that is wooing for government either. We just have to say that this is the case. You have big words in your mouth, but you don't come up with an independent plan yourself. But I would like to ask New Citizens whether they are not at all a little bit nervous that this is actually threatening public health. It sounds almost as if the focus is solely on the mink industry and not so much on public health, on a future vaccine, on the vulnerable citizens, who can really get hurt if they get infected with this covid-19.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030184754	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030184756	Well, of course we take public health seriously. As has been said several times, people are more important than animals. If it turns out that there is a great risk involved in this, we will, of course, also prioritise it. I just think that you have to look at the risks too. What is the risk, and what are the consequences of it? You can imagine all sorts of scenarios that are totally unrealistic and that could make it possible to take all sorts of action in the world. But I just don't think that's what we've seen so far in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030184831	Thank you. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030184833	Now the rapporteur himself is asking for the risk assessments that should be the basis for this. There I can quote from what the Statens Serum Institut and the University of Copenhagen wrote in a so-called epidemiological investigation that they sent to the Danish Food Authority. It says: "In mink, changes have been detected in several areas of the virus genome, including the area coding for the spike protein, which is essential for immunity after infection and/or vaccination. Such changes may potentially... cause flock immunity not to occur and that vaccines will not work. In addition, it has been demonstrated that the mink-related virus variant subsequently forms human infection chains in society. There is therefore a possibility that the viruses in which such changes have taken place may reduce or eliminate the effects of all spike-based anti-COVID19 vaccines, as well as increasing the likelihood that people who have already been infected may be reinfected with these viral variants so that flock immunity does not occur. This is what the risk assessment says. Does this not give rise to the risk of resistance to a vaccine being considered?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030184940	I absolutely believe that we should consider the risk, and what the rapporteur mentions is something about the possibility of potential opportunities, and of course there can always be. It is, of course, the question of how high the risk is. And there are too many different views on it. There's a lot of people who don't think there's a lot of risk involved in this. But of course we must pay attention to it. It's self-evident.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030185003	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030185005	After all, there are many cases when we make a risk assessment where we say that there may be a potential risk. There is, too, if you walk across the street without looking. It's not a guarantee that you'll be hit, but there's a potential risk of that. Therefore, it may be very wise to look for before going over. I guess that's what we're doing in this case, too. Before we embark on such a development here, it is very wise to look at both sides and be sure whether we are now moving into something where there is a great risk of this going wrong. If there is, we won't.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030185034	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030185036	I think we do. In other words, if there is a great risk that something might go wrong, we must, of course, deal with it. I just don't think that's proven.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030185045	Thank you. Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030185047	After all, we have talked a great deal about what could have been done earlier this year, and frankly we do not know what results it would have had. But now we are somehow being given the opportunity to try again in the new year, for the new season of furning, for a new litter. That is why I would just like to hear: what is New Citizens' bid for an alternative strategy for us not to put new litters in the world? So what should we do to avoid ending up in the situation we have been in this autumn, when the infection suddenly passes through one mink herd after another? So what's the offer of an alternative strategy?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030185125	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030185127	I do not think we can take a position on that at this stage. In other words, an opportunity was obvious, that is to say, one could take as its starting point the mink that has already been infected, has been through the process and has recovered and thus become resistant.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030185142	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030185144	Yes, but there are so many minks other than those that may have become resistant and that I understand some parties would like to give a chance to survive, so that a new stock can be put into the world against them. But that does not prevent the infection from reoccuring into the other mink herds and then developing. What, then, will New Citizens do quite specifically to prevent the infection from exploding, as we have seen now? I think I'm gonna have to fry a little more concrete, because otherwise I think I'm gonna get such an extracurricular answer. If a crew is infected, it is the solution to knock it down immediately, or is it the solution, for example. to isolate all employees who have a relationship with that crew and their families, that is to say, to give them some kind of ground grounded for 14 days to prevent the infection from entering society?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030185232	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030185234	Of course, an obvious option is to knock them down as fast as you can. The fact that better isolation of the mink farm can then be completed is an opportunity that we must discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030185251	Thank you. No one else wants to speak. Then it is the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030185301	Thank you. First of all, thank you again to the authors for allowing us to have this debate. Although the debate in F10 should be about health and the risk of infection, it has also come to be about the prospects for the survival of the mink industry, but that must be the case. After all, we need to have a subsequent enquiry debate which is about exactly that. We've got it mixed up a little here, but I'm sure we'll live with that. First of all, I would like to say that the Social Democrats and the government want mink growing to continue in Denmark. I have said this a number of times, and it has been the starting point of this whole process. We are all fully aware of the jobs and probably also the economy associated with mink growing in Denmark. It is also true, as has been said, that Denmark is an international leader in this field. So it is an important industry for Denmark and especially for some of the areas in the country where we do not have too many jobs in advance. It has also been the starting point for dealing with the corona that has hit the mink industry in the same way as it has hit a large number of other professions in this country, where a large number of other professions have also been subject to restrictions and have come into a situation where they are bleeding. It is, of course, and I believe and hope that we can all agree on that, a terrible situation that many companies are in with this corona, and where as a society we spend billions of dollars to support our business to ensure that there is also a life on the other side of the corona. However, both in relation to other sectors of the economy and to the mink sector, which has now been affected by the corona, the government has only had one approach: how to do what is necessary to stop the infection, so that we do not have a situation where infection spreads into society and affects some of the weakest in our society. In general, this has been the starting point in terms of how we have dealt with the Corona crisis. It still is, and it has been all the way through when it comes to the mink sector. When we saw the first steps with the first infected mink on some farms, we didn't have much knowledge about this, but on the basis of the recommendations that we got, we knocked down the minks it was on a total of three farms. Then there has been an opportunity in the intervening period to collect some more knowledge, and then we got the recommendation to make a strategy that was less landmark or less brutal for the minks, namely attempts at containment and isolation, so that we would not have to kill more minks than most necessary. But when we and the health authorities saw that the strategy, despite the fact that I believe the mink farmers did everything they could to live up to it, did not work, and when we saw an overly rapid spread of infection on the mink farms, we again, on the basis of recommendations from the authorities, made the strategy that now applies to all of this for only one purpose, namely to ensure that we do not get coronasmitte into our society via mink. We owe each other that much. I sincerely hope that we can agree that it must be a joint task for the Folketing and for the various parties of the Folketing to do all we can to ensure that this coronasmite does not spread any further. And that is also the case when it comes to measures of a necessary nature in the mink industry, regardless of the unfortunate situation that we are in here, as in many other sectors in Denmark, unfortunately. Then I would say that at the same time we have the approach to it, that we would like to do what we can, within the framework that public health considerations come first, to ensure that the mink industry can continue to have a future. This applies to breeding animals as something absolutely essential, and we are in a dialogue with the profession on how to ensure this in the future. It is a starting point that, of course, if it can be done with the consent of the health authorities, we would like it to be an opportunity. That has been said in the debate here. As I hear from some, it is as if there is not really a very high risk associated with corona among minks, and I have to say that there is. I am, of course, basing this on the advice we receive from the health authorities. The risk lies primarily in the fact that the infection itself is in millions of individuals, so that the infection can spread out into society. And as we have seen, it is not only among those who are or have family ties with mink farms, but also further into society. It is for this reason that we have first of all put in place a strategy in which we strike down as we do. It is for the sake of stopping the infection in general, that is to say we do not have millions of infected minks where there may be a risk of it spreading out into society. Then there is an aggravating circumstance, if you can put it that way, and it is about the risk of mutations. It is true that this is a risk. Now I quote from the Danish Veterinary Consortium, and that is the cooperation that exists between the University of Copenhagen and the Statens Serum Institute, and it is they who guide the state in this matter. It's made up of a team of top experts in this field. There I quote, and Mr. Peder Hvelplund also did so in the past: that is the basis on which we have taken a position. And it is true that it is a risk. It's not the facts we're seeing now. It is a risk, and we just do not want to take that risk as a government either. Finally, I would like to say that a proposal has been put forward for the adoption by the Social Democratic Party, the SF, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, which have also been mentioned here in the debate, which states that the government must ensure that no new litter of mink is started after the coming furry season if the health and veterinary authorities consider that there is an unacceptable risk of infection. There I have to say that the good question which I think it would suit the bourgeois parties who have criticized and who do not want to take part in this proposal is this: will the bourgeois parties allow new litter to be started after the coming furry season if the health and veterinary authorities consider that there is an unacceptable risk of infection? The government won't. Will the bourgeois parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030190137	Thank you, Minister. I can tell you that there are brief comments. First, it's sir. Erling Bonnesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030190144	Well, thank you. I would like to ask two questions. The minister also says that the minister and the government want mink production in the future. The question is whether that desire can be elevated to something more firm. So, can the Minister give a guarantee that there will be mink and fur production in Denmark in the future? And if the answer will be a yes, then it is necessary for it to be precisely that litters can also be added in the spring. And then it is a pure confession case when the Social Democrats have had to agree to this proposal for adoption in the current situation. So you had to use that formula because otherwise you would not have got into that situation. One should not get into the situation that one might risk that there were some health conditions that could prevent it. But now we are standing here and it has to be a question of the Minister being asked in the ministry: how are we going to ensure that we do not get into that situation so that litters can be put in next year? That is why I hope that the Minister will be able to guarantee that we will have mink production in Denmark in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030190250	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030190253	The government cannot guarantee that restaurants survive; that discotheques survive; that professions affected by this unhappy situation at all survive. I do not know whether the Left rapporteur or the Left can guarantee that. We can do everything we can to try to support these professions, and we do so by the government and by the way in cooperation with the parties of the Folketing. In the same way, of course, the government will do what we can to support the mink industry in this unfortunate situation. However, I cannot guarantee how market prices in the world are developing now, when unfortunately we have seen that they are also being affected by corona. There are many conditions that apply. But, of course, I cannot guarantee any profession that they will survive the terrible things that are being suffered here during the corona crisis, but I will do everything I can to support them, including the mink industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030190400	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030190402	Well, thank you. That's good to hear, but it's too bad you can't guarantee it. Then you could start a lot of questions in relation to: Where is the limit? But now the government and the government parties have gotten into this mess with this proposal for adoption, because it gives rise to concern and uncertainty, because what can be expected? I have also indicated in the past that the Left is ready to come to some negotiations. We haven't been there at all yet. Is it the intention of the Social Democrats and the Minister that the Left and the Blue Parties should be invited to some real negotiations to deal with this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030190434	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030190437	Now I have had the opportunity to discuss this matter with Mr. Erling Bonnesen quite a bit And there has always been an open door to the government and to my office for the suggestions and ideas that the Left has. But we have not seen any proposals from the Left; there has not been a plan from the Left. And what I still think is the good question with regard to the Left is: if the health and veterinary authorities consider that there is an unacceptable risk of infection in putting new minks in cages, will the Left do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030190515	Thank you. Then it's mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030190517	Thank you. After all, the whole handling of this issue is not something that has been under negotiation. After all, this is a matter for the Minister, and I understand that the Minister is following the recommendations made by the authorities. So I would like to ask you exactly: is it the Food and Agriculture Authority that has decided on the strategy that is now being carried out, where you kill all the minks within that 7.8 km radius, whether they are healthy or infected or have produced antibodies? Or is it the State Serum Institute that has proposed that model?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030190553	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030190555	Well, of course it is ultimately a political decision what you do, but the political decision has been made on the basis of the recommendations that have come from the authorities. And of course it's from the Food Authority, but it's also from the health authorities and veterinary authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030190611	Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030190613	Thank you. I would like to follow up and ask the Minister whether he thinks that what has been going on over the last 30 days has been a success. It has actually been seen that the infection has developed violently in the areas where the Danish Food Authority has been present, for example in Gjøl, where Romanians have been hired, who have then come to our country with infection to the farms on which they were going.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030190643	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030190645	I do not think anyone will describe any part of the development of corona as a success. This is, in general, a tragedy for our country, for a great deal of business, for the people. So no, it's not a success. And it is also true that, as we listened to the recommendations of the health authorities to change the strategy from setting aside to trying to isolate the farms so that we did not have to knock down the mines, we could see that this meant that the infection spread violently, and then we had to move on to another strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030190721	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030190723	Thank you. I would actually like to ask a question following on from the consultation we had on Wednesday, when unfortunately we did not have as much time as we might have this evening. One of the things I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on is this with this zone, i.e. the 7,8 km zone, which has, of course, been drawn on the map. As far as mink farms within that zone are concerned, it will also affect the healthy mink if there is one farm that has been infected. The Minister said at the conciliation meeting on Wednesday that this strategy was one of these. had a criterion attached to it, which was that it was dependent on the size of the farms. In other words, when the decision was taken, it was based on the 20 farms in North Jutland, including the size of the farms. Could the Minister try to explain to me what other criteria are included in relation to entering a zone of 7.8 km?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030190828	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030190830	Now I can say that I am not an epidemiologist, as it is called, nor a veterinary expert, so I am listening to the advice I receive in this area. The starting point was, of course, that, on the basis of the knowledge one had from the first chains of infection, there were two factors that could explain the spread of the infection. It was infected farms, and then it was people and distance. You could see that it had spread at a distance within 7.8 km, and if you could knock it down within that radius, you would in 95%. cases could stop the infection. That was the advice we received, and that was why it was said that it should be 7.8 km. I have no reason to say that there is something that should be different.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030190933	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030190935	No, and precisely with what the Minister says here at the end, that is to say that the Minister has no basis to say that there was something different, could it not be that the Minister should ask the health authorities again? As we saw that the infection was suddenly also in Ringkøbing and in Ikast-Brande, where there is more than 7.8 km's distance to the North Jutland farms, could it be that this zoning should be different now?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191006	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191008	I would say that no one is yet in a position to explain how the infection can take the leaps it takes, but what we have at least been able to see is that when it comes in one place, it spreads rapidly from that place to the nearby farms. At any rate, this has been observed, and this is what we are trying to do with the 7.8 km. But of course we must constantly look at the knowledge we get, because no one wants to knock down more healthy minks or healthy animals at all unless it is necessary to slow down the infection.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191041	Ellen Trane Nørby, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191043	Thank you. I would really like to stick to the proposal for adoption, because it may well be that the Minister says at the outset that the government will also want a Danish mink industry and fur animal industry after corona, but if you read the proposal for adoption, it is a de facto closure if you cannot bring in new litter and you have no prospects for the industry. Because it is decades of breeding programme that has led to the success of the industry today. And it is also an economy which will then be even more challenged than it is at present. And the current strategy, with the exception of the 7.8 km that my colleague has also asked about, has been a strategy that is focused on the infected and those who were close to us, but with this proposal for adoption, the government agrees that, in the future, all farms in Denmark should be included in the fact that basically nothing must be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191154	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191156	No, the government doesn't. The government says with this, like other parties, that if the health authorities come and tell us that putting new minks into production involves an unacceptable risk of infection, and then it is a question of whether it is within a geographical area or it is throughout the country that the government will not take that risk. That's what we're saying. And the question is whether the Left will.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191230	Ellen Trane Nørby, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191232	But listen to me, sir. Minister. The minister has just said that there was no evidence in this area, but that there was a risk and that the government acted on the basis of risk. And then we have a text here in which it says that if there is an unacceptable risk of infection that is what the minister has just stood on the platform and said is what the government thinks there is then you will not put litter in, not just on the farms with infected mink that are being killed and where you disinfect, but basically on all farms in Denmark. And then I just ask the Minister directly: does the Minister and the government mean that there is a profession left in Denmark if there are no live animals?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191307	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191309	But Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby quotes me wrong. I didn't say there was no evidence that this is contagious. There is evidence of this, partly that it infects healthy mink, partly that it infects people around the minks, i.e. those who work there and their families, and that the infection also spreads out to those who do not have mink to do. So yes, there is evidence that there is a high risk of infection. Where I said that there is also a risk, it is associated with mutations, which are just an aggravating circumstance, as I see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191341	Then it's Lise Bech, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191344	Thank you. The minister says several times that you refer to the health authorities and the Danish Veterinary Consortium, but says that I think it was actually important that it was a political decision; I think we should stick to that. But the Danish Veterinary Consortium does not come to any final conclusions. They say that the effect of killing infected herds is deemed to be limited if the minks cannot be killed before widespread spread within the farm. And it's been extremely slow, so it hasn't had an effect. The criteria for selecting which surrounding herds should be killed are subject to great uncertainty due to the lack of detection of risk factors, and this is very well in line with what Kåre Mølbak said at a meeting we had before the autumn holidays; there he said: this virus is not airborne. Well, it's gonna fall to the ground to have a 7.8-mile zone.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191446	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191448	Of course it is a political decision to take these measures. It always will be. It has also been in the other areas where we are trying to contain the infection. And I can only say that the strategy to crack down on infected farms and farms within a radius of 7.8 kilometres is based on a clear recommendation from the health authorities, which Kåre Mølbak also supports, and I think he also told us that at the meeting that Mrs Lise Bech was going to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191521	Mrs. Lise Bech, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191525	Kåre Mølbak said: this infection is not airborne, and I interpret that as not being able to travel 7.8 km. He also said that it is people that it is we who carry it around. And that means that it must mink farm, which is 7.8 km away, so let it die, that is to say, that it is so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191550	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191552	But it is absolutely true that Kåre Mølbak and others say it is not an airborne infection. But what you say is that there are two factors that you can see apply here. One is that it is human; that is to say, it is people who carry it around. At least so far it is what you can see. The second factor that has been seen in the spread of infection so far is that it happens within this radius, which we are talking about, on these 7.8 kilometres. Then you want to make sure that the infection doesn't spread out, you have to kill within this radius.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191623	Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191625	I think this is getting more and more interesting. We're told it's not an airborne disease. Nevertheless, the health authorities have chosen to say that within a radius of 7.8 km you will still knock down herds. When the disease is not airborne, it must be because you can statistically see that this is the maximum distance. If it is a risk factor that causes sick animals to be killed, and there is also an unacceptable risk of infection associated with putting new litter into the world, then one might fear that one simply takes the measuring band and measures the greatest distance between farms that have been mink disease on, and then says that within that radius one should not have mink wool forward-looking, perhaps even throughout Denmark. Now the Minister has said that the government wants mink production to continue. How will the Minister ensure that we continue to have mink production if this is the way forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191726	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191728	After all, I have made it clear that what is the government's first priority is to ensure that the coronasmit does not spread. This applies in all sorts of other areas, but it also applies from mink to the rest of society. Everything we have done so far has had the clear aim of ensuring that the infection does not spread. Then I say that yes, once we have taken that purpose first, the government's approach is that we want to continue to have mink production in Denmark, and we do what we can to ensure that the industry can also survive this tragedy, that is, and that they are also exposed to with the coronasmit.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191808	Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191810	Does this mean that the Minister believes that a measuring tape is sufficient to assess how many minks should be killed? You shouldn't know why they get infected or what the background is for it, before you kill the minks, and before you stop mink production in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191825	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191827	I have to say to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm that what we are basing the strategy is, of course, the knowledge we have so far and on which the most clever minds we have in this area have analysed, in relation to how the infection has spread so far. From what they say, you have to knock down the infected farms, and in addition to that, you have to hit a radius of 7.8 km based on the experience we have so far. It may well happen that Mrs Louise Schack Elholm is better at assessing this, but I am relying on the advice of the health authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191903	Thank you. Then it's Torsten Schack Elholm. Here you go. No, Pedersen!
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191910	Yeah, it stays in the family. All I have to ask is whether healthy, but previously infected mink with antibodies poses a health risk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191922	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191923	You can't deny that they do. It can't be denied, as I've read the recommendations we've been given that after you get infected, you get through the disease and form antibodies, can't be infected again. That cannot be rejected. But you can't say it's like that either. So I guess that's the answer to that question... based on the knowledge I have.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191956	Torsten Schack Pedersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030191958	I'm not asking if they can get infected again. I ask if they pose a health risk to others. In other words, does a mink which has been infected and which now has antibodies pose an infectious health risk to others?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030192017	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030192019	With the knowledge I have, it is only in that case that it can then be reinfected and pose a health risk to others.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030192029	Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030192033	It sounds almost as if we have found some breeding animals here if the Minister does not want to kill the mink that has been infected but has now recovered. But my question is really whether we could get a clear answer from the Minister, which it has limped with a little bit this evening. Perhaps you could almost say that the Minister speaks with a little fur in his mouth. This is about our proposal for adoption. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he could give a clear answer as to where the limit is between an unacceptable risk of infection and an acceptable risk of infection. This is, like the main point of the proposal for adoption that we are now discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030192111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030192113	Well, for us, it is if the health authorities and the veterinary authorities come and say that there is an unacceptable risk of infection. That, of course, is what we want to say. If they come and say so, we cannot start a new production. It may apply in a specific area; it may apply nationally. But I have not yet received an answer from the Left, to which I think it is reasonable to reply, on whether the Left will allow mink production to come if the health authorities come and say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030192147	Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030192149	What surprises the Left is that the only concrete thing in this proposal for adoption is the breeding animals. That is the whole prerequisite for the future of the industry. That is the only thing that is mentioned together with the parties that want to abolish mink production in Denmark. In other words, there is no acceptable risk of infection in other areas with the feed wagon or other things that the mink farmers can also do something about. That, of course, is what worries us, that is to say, it only highlights the one thing that can help to put the industry down. That's why the industry needs an answer. What is an acceptable risk of infection, and what is an unacceptable risk of infection? We can't just tell the industry that we don't know that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030192232	Thank you. The question is now closed. Now the Minister answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030192234	But I think, sir. Thomas Danielsen, that this is about the fact that if the health and veterinary authorities come and tell the government to put mink back in cages once they have just gone out, that there is an unacceptable risk of infection, and that is therefore a risk of infection, which is about the spread of the infection into the population, the government will of course not recommend it or do it. The question is again: Thomas Danielsen and the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030192304	Then it's Kim Valentin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030192307	Thank you and thank you for your reply, or at least try to answer it. Compared to 7.8 km, I think it is not 7 km, not 8 km, but 7.8 km. It has to be based in some way on a very precise calculation. Otherwise, you'd just say, "Yeah, it's 7 km, or it's 8 km." I just have to say that there has to be a more precise answer to it from the Minister. In fact, I believe that the people have the expectation that the Minister and the government will use knowledge when making decisions. And then it's just explaining. And I actually know the Minister as a clever man, so it disappoints me that this matter is handled with fear as a companion and not with knowledge, because we know that fear is a really, really bad companion in decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030192411	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030192413	Well, the government's strategy is based on nothing more than knowledge than the knowledge we have so far. And unfortunately it is also limited, as it is in many other areas, in relation to how corona is contagious and how we can stop the infection. So it is based entirely on the knowledge we have, although it is not enough. At least I'd like to know more. And then we're pretty precise: 7.8 is more accurate than 7 or 8. But it is based again, yes, on some calculations based on the experience we have from the first infected farms. And I also think that Mr. Kim Valentin should accept it when we have authorities that have been involved in looking at it here and how it has infected in the first stages, and then come up with recommendations on what to do from the experience, that is to say that one then listens to the knowledge and recommendations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030192507	Kim Valentin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030192509	Thank you. The Minister is asking for the good question, but the good question is not what needs to be done. The good question, and what we have asked the Minister, is: how do you, as a government, avoid doing what is unnecessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030192530	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030192532	Well, we are only doing what is necessary on the basis of the recommendations that we are getting. And that's all I think you can do as a responsible government: that we are not just starting to play experts and epidemiologists ourselves, but that we are listening to the best science we have and the best experience we have in terms of how this infection has spread and that we are then using that knowledge to ensure that it doesn't spread further.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030192558	Marie Bjerre, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030192601	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I am pleased that the Minister recognises that the mink industry is an important part of our business and that the mink industry must also have a future. I sincerely hope that good intentions will also be put into practice. Where I am elected, in Himmerland, the mink industry fills very much for business and for employment, indeed, throughout North Jutland, and that is also why I am here today. In the municipality of Vesthimmerland you are already challenged on the settlement. We can't afford to lose the mink business too. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister: what does the Minister intend for people to live on when they are well in the process of killing all mink herds, including breeding animals? Has the government even considered how to secure jobs in that part of the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030192648	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030192650	Well, I can totally follow the rapporteur here. I mean, I grew up on an island where there's mink. I've been in class with someone whose father had a mink farm, and I've been chosen in an area where there's mink farms. I am well aware of the importance of mink. And it is an important industry, especially for some areas of the country; it is a lot of jobs. We take this very seriously, and that is why we are working on it together with the industry. And even if we do what we have to do and it has priority to ensure that the infection doesn't spread to the population, because first priority is public health, then we work beyond that with the industry to find some solutions in terms of how to continue the mink. And that's one of the things that's gonna happen. on the issue mentioned here: how to ensure that breeding animals remain. But all of this will depend in any case on how the coronasmit continues to spread, and on the guidance we receive in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030192753	Thank you. Marie Bjerre, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030192757	Then the Minister knows how frustrated the minkkeepers are and not only frustrated, but also how sad they are. That is why I would like to ask: when does the Minister expect them to be able to re-enter breeding animals? When do they have clarity about their production? Or if you have to follow this proposal for adoption: when does the Minister expect the health authorities to find out that it is health-friendly to re-enter breeding animals? I think that is the wording that is being used. These minkers need some clarity and information about it. What do you want me to say at home?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030192828	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030192830	I cannot give an exact deadline for that. We are working on it, and it has to be done as quickly as possible, because the industry is also entitled to do so. Now, as I think has also emerged today, we have given the possibility of free testing, which gives some farms the opportunity to preserve breeding material. But in addition to that, we are in a dialogue with the industry, and we will also be with the accompanying industries, about what the future holds.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030192900	Egil Hulgaard, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030192902	Thank you and thank you for your speech, sir. Minister. I am quite happy about some of the things you said because you toned down that theoretical risk that the mink variant of covid-19 would develop resistance to the 321 vaccine candidates that are developing. It is therefore a supertheoretic risk, and fortunately the Minister also said that it was a theoretical risk and was not the main cause of the reaction of the Minister to the minks. Instead of focusing on virus reservoirs as a risk of spread, this must also mean that, for example, we have a risk of infection. the minks that develop resistance and resistance to covid-19 do not pose any risk. Thank you, Mr President. We're just gonna finish the question. Isn't it more rational to let the mink fur the mink that isn't infected?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193021	Thank you. Even if it's Friday out in the evening, we still have to be careful with the direct charges. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193025	Thank you to the questioner. What I have referred to from up here is what we have been told from the Danish Veterinary Consortium. And it is stated, as I have also quoted, that there is a risk of mutation, but what is, of course, the starting point and the core of the government's strategy is how to stop the direct infection so that it does not spread. There we have the approach to it that we will do what we can to ensure that as few minks as possible have to be put to death. And that is also the strategy we are pursuing in relation to what is happening at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193109	Egil Hulgaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193111	Thank you. Just a follow-up question: what will the Minister do to give us some more knowledge in this area so that we do not have that risk? Well, risk is real, a lot of things, from 0 to 100. So what are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193123	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193125	As I think I have also said before, we are obviously trying to obtain knowledge from the countries that have been in the same problem as us, not least the Netherlands, which got the infection before we got it. All available knowledge from there, of course, we take in plus all the knowledge from the research environments, the Serum Institute and the University of Copenhagen, gathers in from the experiences we have now, with how it spreads in Denmark. We are, of course, actively using this in the future in order to organise a strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193152	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193154	Thank you. Now the Minister mentions free testing. We were at a rapporteur's meeting just before the debate here, where we were informed that it will start to be used. It will be so freest animals until 1 October, i.e. only until 1 October. At the same time, we were informed that a course of illness usually takes 2-4 weeks. That is why I wonder whether, as time goes by, we could not extend that period so that we can make more of the animals that have already been through the course of the disease survive.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193230	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193232	When there is a limit in favour of free testing, it is simply a matter of a certain period of time, from the fact that there is infection, to the fact that the virus has disappeared from those herds. This is also why the border is laid north of Limfjorden, because it is there that you have had the time necessary for the infection to decrease. There is no possibility of this being done south of Limfjorden. That is why free testing is carried out in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193301	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193302	We were told that we were talking about 2 to 4 weeks, so if there are animals that have been infected after 1 October, there will be an opportunity for them to have recovered and thus to expand the group that can be allowed to survive so as to help the industry in the longer term.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193323	The period that has been decided has been decided on the basis of the instructions that come from the health authorities, and this is in relation to an assessment of how long it takes before the infection passes through a herd and until you can free them on the other side.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193342	Then it's Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193344	Thank you. In a moment, the calendar says November, and November is usually the month of fur for mink farmers. I took note of the Minister's statement along the way that it was important for as few minks as possible to be killed. This is a view that I can support, and I would therefore like to ask the Minister if he would not allow the non-defiled mink within the 7.8-kilometre zone to be furned in a perfectly normal manner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193422	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193423	It is clear that when we reach the furry season, there is every reason to work to ensure that fur can be done normally. What may be a problematic factor in this is that there is also a pace in terms of eliminating the infection. I mean, it's about how quickly you can get the infected crews killed and also the crews within the risk zone then designated, because furning usually takes longer than 6 weeks, I've understood that it can take much less time. So we have a dilemma here, but we are in dialogue with the industry about how and how this can be done. Because in the best of all worlds, I would like that to be the way it could be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193518	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193520	Yes, everything else is also meaningless, and I could also sense that the Minister had a little difficulty in answering my question very precisely and specifically, and that also means that it sounds hollow when the Minister emphasizes that as few healthy animals as possible should be killed in this context. So I would just like to ask once again whether the Minister will not consider opening up fur within the 7.8-kilometre zone in the case of healthy animals. And I am quite sure that you will be able to do so for a much shorter period than six weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193559	Thank you. Now we get an answer from the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193602	Well, Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, I think I answered quite clearly, that is to say, on the basis of what I think could be the right solution. However, I still need to get away from a recommendation from the health authorities that this is a sound way of doing it and, as I mentioned, one of the challenges is how quickly such furning, which normally takes a long time, can take place under these circumstances, and I still need to clarify that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193629	Then it's Inger Løjberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193630	Thank you. I do not know any Danes or any mink farmers who do not want to comply with rules that make sense, and I think that what is the problem here is that one cannot really get the answer from the Minister and from the government on how exactly the 7.8-kilometre zone arose and why that is exactly so, and now also here, most recently, Mrs Ulla Tørnæs's question. It may well be that the Minister is long-suffering and has plenty of time; the mink do not have that. So I would like to appeal to the Minister now to answer the question which I think is quite justified, as Mrs Ulla Tørnæs put it, so if it could not be said that the minks that are within the 7.8 km zone and are healthy can be furned in the normal way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193719	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193720	It can be said so clearly that if it can be done with the health authorities' recommendation that it is safe in relation to the risk of infection, then it can be done. We don't have a clarification yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193735	Inger Løjberg, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193737	No, but then it might be that the Minister should take the lead and then something must happen. That is the problem for mink farmers today, that is to say, you have a minister who has leaned back and said that it is really problematic, and then, like it isn't really happening anymore. Why does the Minister not step in and then either here in a very, very short time say that yes, you can fur those animals that are healthy within the 7.8-kilometre zone or that you cannot? Well, this requires an answer. It's people of flesh and blood who live off these minks, and so they're about to close their crews and move from house to home.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193816	Thank you. Then we'll get an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193818	I can assure Mrs Inger Løjberg that I am fully aware of that. After all, I have had several meetings with the mink farmers, and I know exactly what the situation is, and we are trying to clarify this as soon as possible. But no matter how much Mrs Inger Løjberg raises her voice, it will never happen in a way where there is a risk that this infection will spread into society and into our people and to weak groups in the population. The government won't do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193847	I must make sure that I have not overlooked anyone who would like a brief comment. I haven't, and we'll thank the Minister. Have I understood correctly that Mr. Carl Valentin wants to round off the debate? Yeah. Sir. Carl Valentin, SF, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030193909	Thank you. I think we have had a very long debate here, and I also think I have answered a lot of questions when I was up here before, so it wasn't really because I wanted to make a lot more of it. However, I was criticised a little for making the mistake of reading our proposal for adoption too late, and that is why it was not possible to put questions to it, and I would like to regret that, and that is something we can now, if it is, because I am here now. So, if you have any questions for me as rapporteur, you can of course continue to ask them. However, I would like to say in relation to the debate here that I think the result is a little mixed, because I had hoped for a debate which was primarily about mutations, because that is actually what we have called for a debate on. But the debate came to a great deal about some other things and very much about the future of the industry, which we will be debating shortly, but that is what it is. There is no doubt that we are deeply divided here in the Folketing on this issue, both in terms of how to deal with this epidemic spreading at mink, from a health perspective, but also in relation to the future of the industry. We are very, very disagreeable, and we have to note in the SF that it is very fortunate that we have a government right now that takes the risk of infection seriously. Because it is really important in such a situation here, and it is certainly not certain that this would have been the case if it were the bourgeois parties that had had the power of government. In any case, I do not think I can conclude that at the end of today's debate. But I really think that's what I had to say. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030194053	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Erling Bonnesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030194057	Thank you for that and thank you for giving us the opportunity to round it now at the end. I understand if the SF's rapporteur, like him, feels joy and that there is half a victory at home in connection with the proposal for adoption that the SF has then been put forward here and that has led the government to jump on. So the SF is really with the whole mink and fur industry in their hollow hand now almost then, it has to turn out. As we have also been circling the debate here, it is one of the terms that I think we should try to clarify a little more. It says in the last line... if the health and veterinary authorities consider that there is an unacceptable risk of infection associated with it. That's kind of the key in it. What is the definition of SF? Now the SF is almost in ministerial offices you can decide here. Is it the case that, as the situation is now, you will not be able to install new animals next year, or is it if the authorities come and say that they are really nervous, and that is enough to close, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030194205	Then it's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030194208	What this proposal for adoption says is that... If the health and veterinary authorities consider that there is an unacceptable risk of infection associated with this, they will not put mink in the world. So the definition is that it is if the health and veterinary authorities assess it, in other words if they consider that there is an unacceptable risk of infection I cannot say what the health authorities consider to be an unacceptable risk of infection. SF won't put any new mink in the world after the next fur season. That is our point of view, and we will also be voting through it with a proposal for adoption to F 10 which we will be discussing shortly. But here we have agreed with the government that of course you listen to the health authorities, and I think that is really good.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030194254	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030194256	The state of things is often that way. We have seen plenty of examples of this in this case already now that some authorities and experts come along and say a few things to one side, and some people come along and say a few things to the other side. What, then, should be decisively taken into account? I can't guess what SF wants. But where is the limit? What if someone comes along and says both to somebody on one side, some to the other side, you just hit, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030194327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030194329	We believe that it is quite obvious that, in the current situation where corona is in our society and that there is a high risk of infection on mink herds, it is not healthy to put new mink into the world. That is why we have already announced at this stage that we do not believe that new animals should be brought into the world after the next furning season. Whether the government is going to do that, we'll see.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030194355	Well, then, sir. Anders Kronborg asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030194357	Thank you so much. When the SF's rapporteur stands on the platform and speaks out about the proposal for adoption, I would also just like to sign for the good, decent, I think, cooperation. It is quite clear that the Social Democratic Party and the SF do not agree on all aspects, but the Danish people's government is also to find each other, and I think that many of those who have followed this debate must think: what is going on in this Chamber? I do not think this has been a very good debate. There have been accusations that are not correct, things that have not been correctly quoted have been read out, people have put things in their shoes, people have even been asked whether the SF has tabled a motion of censure in relation to this proposal for adoption. Then I would just like to ask the SF rapporteur to confirm that this has actually taken place in good order and with decency in relation to the people's regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030194453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030194455	Of course, I can confirm that. There have been no major threats or anything else in that process. I think we have had a good process with the Social Democracy. I would like the Social Democrats to have gone further and to have been made clear that new animals would not be allowed to be placed in the world after the next furning. You wouldn't say that, but we found each other this way, and I think that's really fine, and I think we've had a good process, and I hope we'll have that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030194517	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030194519	When we sat and wrote this proposal for adoption and talked about the text, I had not imagined in my wildest imagination that there would be a great deal of criticism from the opposition about the fact that you are actually going in and listening to the health authorities. You go in and put public health at the top. So I would like to ask SF whether SF is also surprised, if I may say so, a little skinny tone that the debate has had here tonight.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030194543	I think it was a leading question, but here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030194547	Yes, but it is not certain that I will reply to as much of what the rapporteur expects. I don't know. I think we could expect this kind of debate to take place, because with the way in which we have seen several of the parties' rapporteurs act in the press, where health risks have not been taken seriously for several weeks throughout this process, it is perhaps no wonder that it is continuing in this Chamber too, but I do not think it has been a very fruitful debate. I certainly don't think so. No.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030194615	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin. I understand that no one else has asked for the floor, and that concludes the debate. The vote on the proposed adoption will not take place until Tuesday, 3 November 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030194637	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday, 3 November 2020. Please give a explanatory statement to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Mr. Erling Bonnesen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030194654	Thank you. On behalf of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance, I should like to motivate the invitation of the Minister to the question debate in this Chamber today on the Coronasmitten in relation to the mink industry and health. First of all, to make a very clear statement: public health is most important and people come first. There must be proportion and coherence in things. It is about stopping the infection; it is about securing the future of the mink industry and currently saving as much as possible by the mink sector, while, of course, we are acting in good health. We have been able to follow the development of the infection since it started in North Jutland, spread south of Limfjorden, to Central Jutland, West Jutland, Esbjerg and various other places. And then, unfortunately, we have seen that the government has come in unhelpful afterwards and has groped out. Unfortunately, the infection has gone faster than the government has been able to keep up. At the same time, we have seen that the government slaughters on both healthy mink and infected mink, you change a little course along the way. In short, we note that the strategy and plans put in place by the government have failed. In our opinion, this should have been a much more targeted and focused effort in the Blue Parties, focusing on, among others, the following: The newly infected mink. Instead of slaughtering loose on the healthy mink, there should have been a more precise focus on the newly infected. One can say: why kill healthy mink and thereby jeopardise the entire mink business's existence? You could almost get the idea if there was a hidden agenda. We hope there isn't. Our perception in the blue parties is clear: the Mink industry must survive; there must be mink production in Denmark in the future; the infection must be stopped; you must stop knocking down the healthy mink; maximum speed must be given to free-test the animals on the farms where there has been infection and where the infection is going through • Let us have them freetested. It's about focus on breeding material in the future; focus on the newly infected mink, which can still pose a problem; focus on the so-called 7.8-kilometre zone that we need to change; and then it's also a restart package, a package for the future, so you get a clear basis for the set aside for the coming season. And, of course, it is also a question of paying out these compensations that have been put in store, as soon as possible, securing breeding material and focusing on the efforts of the future. In this respect, of course, the question is: what will the government and the Minister do to achieve this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030195005	I'll tell Mr. Knox. Anders Kronborg, that no question can be asked about the explanatory statement, but it is the case that Mr. Erling Bonnesen will come on as rapporteur right after the Minister. Now it is the minister for the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030195019	Here, too, I would like to thank the authors and the parties behind the question, because it is of course also important to have a discussion on how we can ensure that we can have a mink industry in Denmark in the future. I am happy to go into this by answering the two questions that have been raised here. As we have already noted in connection with F 9, the measures put into effect this summer were not sufficient to contain the covid-19 infection spread in the Danish mink herds. Therefore, on 1 October, the government decided that all covid-19 infected mink herds and the non-infected herds in a zone of 7.8 km around the infected herds should be killed forward-looking. The decision, as has also been made, is based on advice from among others. The Danish Food Authority, the Statens Serum Institut, the Danish Health Authority and the University of Copenhagen. The health authorities have assessed that mink herds potentially represent a large reservoir of coronavirus and associated risk of further mutations, and that the continued development of the mink variant of covid-19 may pose a potential danger to public health in Denmark. Studies carried out by the Danish Veterinary Consortium, which is a collaboration between the University of Copenhagen and the Statens Serum Institute, have shown that the only significant risk factors of covid-19 infection on a mink farm are the size of the herd and the distance to the nearest mink farm with infection. The strategy to curb the development of infection is therefore to kill infected mink herds and herds within a radius of 7.8 km from here. The determination of the 7.8 km now has been asked about this a great deal from among other things. The left side is based on a risk assessment from the Danish Veterinary Consortium based on data from the first 20 farms with infection. 95% of the farms lay within 7.8 km of another farm with infected mink. The work to explain the cause of the widespread spread of infection on Danish mink farms is also a very high priority effort, which the Danish Food Authority, in close cooperation with the health authorities and national veterinary experts, is working with in a concerted effort to contain the spread of covid-19. The Danish Food Authority therefore also investigates other possible routes of infection than the one between humans and mink and is among other things. in contact with personnel, feed suppliers, machinery stations, temporary employment agencies and veterinary surgeons who have their way on farms. The most recent question has been whether waste water treatment plants can play a role in the covid-19 contamination. The State's Serum Institute also works to link knowledge about covid-19-infected persons to personal circles associated with mink productions. So far, however, there has been no other possible means of infection than humane in and out of mink farms. And if the covid-19 infectious pathways only went into the mink farms and not out again, the current situation would be a different and purely veterinary problem. That is just not the case, and it is therefore important for me to reiterate that the mink infected with covid-19 can infect people and thus pose a threat to public health. The current situation shows that the spread of viruses between humans and mink continues, but it is clear that we are monitoring the situation continuously. We will assess whether the approach should be changed if there is new knowledge or whether new measures are to be taken which may prove to be equally effective or more effective in curbing the spread of covid-19 in mink. Thus, on the basis of the current assessments today, as I have mentioned during the previous inquiry debate, we have announced that the Danish Food and Agriculture Authority will start work on free testing in selected herds from 2 November. However, this will only happen in herds that are infected early in the process, and under no circumstances will this happen in herds south of Limfjorden. In this context, however, it is also important for me to make it clear that the possibility of free testing will in no way delay the rate at which herds are killed. Free testing is a measure introduced to use the killing capacity in the best possible way, also taking into account the risk. However, public health is and remains the most important thing. So to the second question about how the government will ensure that an entire industry is not closed with the loss of Danish jobs as it is formulated. It is important for me to stress that the decision to kill uninfected mink has again been taken on the grounds of public health. And in addition to constantly updating and adapting the strategy to the current situation, I would also like to remind you that the mink farmers who have their herds killed are actually paid compensation from the Treasury, including in order to replace the culled beasts. Here minks, whose animals are infected, get full replacement for all killed minks and in addition 20 per cent. operating loss compensation to partially cover the loss of the added value of breeding animals. In the case of the killing of non-infected herds situated within a radius of 7.8 km from an infected herd, full compensation shall be granted for the animals as well as full loss of service, as the situation is similar to expropriation and other rules apply here. The compensation scheme, as has been said here from the platform, has been in place for more than 30 years, and it applies to both mink growers and the farmer whose animals are to be killed because of avian influenza or mad cow disease. The principle of compensation is therefore the same for all, no matter what animals you have. It should therefore allow mink farmers to purchase and deploy new breeding animals from herds which have not been killed. Fortunately, the majority of the country's mink farms have for the time being been freed from the disease and the measures that it has been necessary to lay down in order to limit the spread of covid-19. At the same time, we must not forget that the measures taken have also been decided to protect the mink industry from infection. I therefore think that the government is doing what we can to ensure that the primary concern for the protection of public health is balanced in a sound manner and that the opportunities for the mink industry to get out of this unfortunate situation are taken into account in the best possible way. Then I will conclude by saying that the situation around covid-19 is difficult for the whole of there are many who have been affected, both personally and financially, and the government has therefore since early spring had to make decisions that have been difficult to take as much account of public health as possible and at the same time mitigate the economic consequences for society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030195835	Thank you for your answer. A brief comment from the rapporteurs is now available. Sir. Erling Bonnesen has asked for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030195843	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for your reply. I note that the Minister wants mink production to take place in the future, and then there will be a need to hold some meetings that are more than just meeting, so I would just like to put a thick line under the fact that the Left and the whole blue block, I am quite sure that we are ready to go to the Minister's office, not just to a technical way, not just to get an briefing at a rapporteur's meeting, no, to a real debate on how we will then get the things that are needed to ensure that we can fulfil the wish that the Minister has and that we also share in blue camp that we should have mink production in the future. So we look forward to that if it should happen that we get an invitation to a real negotiating meeting. So I would like to ask the Minister: does he not regret the fact that the Minister and the government are in this situation now that the strategy, plan and so on have been so unhelpfully delayed? I fully acknowledge that the Minister himself has said several times that there is a lot that is not known, and it is clear that the Minister cannot do that personally, but has not been taken a little too square and crooked decisions that have put us in this situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030200003	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030200004	I can't wait to have a discussion with Mr. Erling Bonnesen and the Danish Parliament's parties on the future of the mink industry in Denmark. After all, it is only fair and reasonable that we should discuss this in the difficult situation in which the industry finds itself on the basis of the corona and, of course, also on the basis that, in this situation and in this discussion, we should take account of the fact that public health is and remains the most important thing. I understand that, sir. Erling Bonnesen that the Left fully agrees, although I have to say that it is sometimes difficult to see that this is the case. And yes, I think that in relation to the whole corona situation we must say that it is a pity that we cannot be at the forefront, that we cannot foresee what is happening, that we have so little knowledge of how the coronasmite spreads, but the most important thing we can do is then use the knowledge we have to make future strategies better.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030200106	At this stage, there is only one question, and only one from the rapporteurs. The next rapporteur to ask a question is Mrs Lise Bech.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030200113	Thank you. The Minister constantly refers to the Danish Veterinary Consortium and the note. This 7.8-kilometre zone is central, and the note also states that neither the Netherlands nor Denmark has been able to identify any significant means of infection other than the human reservoir. Therefore, if a preventive culling strategy is chosen, it is uncertain which distance parameters should be used. Therefore: It is not clear that it should just be 7.8 km, it might as well be 1.2 km because it is not airborne. It's people dragging this around.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030200159	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030200201	Well, we can, Mrs. Lise Bech and I, make us experts on this. I'm not. I can only say that what the authorities are telling us is that there are two factors in this. It is true, as Mrs Lise Bech says, that it is the humane, humane, contagious route that we can see so far is the one that is making this contagious. And then, in the light of the first cases of infection, it has been possible to see that 7.8 km is the limit to which the infection has spread from the first cases of infection. That's why there's logic in that, at least, that's what the health authorities recommend... that it's a zone of the size you put around the infected farms. It is because the Danish Veterinary Consortium considers that it can at least stop 95 per cent. of the infection. At least that is what we have seen so far, i.e. that it has been 95%. of the infection that has been within the 7.8 km.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030200303	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030200307	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for saying, and I have written it down, that mink is important in Denmark. I was genuinely pleased to hear that, and I certainly hope that is what the Minister thinks. It is a quite difficult situation that we are facing and with a lot of uncertainty. I was told today about a farm where there live two Romanians who fit the mink there. No one else is going there, and they're getting practically nowhere. None of them are infected, and as far as I'm concerned, the farm has been infected. It is quite inexplicable how it can be done, and it is a lot uphill when you deal with such a thing, where you have done everything you can to guard yourself, and then the farm becomes equally infected. The question I'm just trying to ask is about that free-test thing. For it is quite obvious, one would say that when mink has been infected that has produced antibodies, then one can use them in the further breeding work. Now I could hear something about south of Limfjorden and north of Limfjorden, and the minister says it's only north of the fjord. Do we have any idea how many farms and how many animals this is about?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030200421	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030200422	First of all, I would just like to say again that what we are doing here in relation to mink farms and the mink industry is doing for one reason alone: public health. We impose restrictions on many other industries. We have to do this. This applies to restaurants, it applies to hotels, it applies to cultural life, and it is not because we do not want restaurants, hotels or cultural life in the future. The restrictions are imposed for one single reason: to stop the coronasmite. And there is no exception for mink. That is why the government naturally wants the mink industry to continue as far as possible, just as we want restaurants, hotels, cultural life and everything else to be able to continue in Denmark. In relation to free testing, it is precisely about the possibility that it is given in relation to ensuring breeding material in the future, and the reason why it is north of Limfjorden is that it was there that the infection started, and therefore it can be free tested.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030200527	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. We shall now proceed to the debate and to the general rules for short remarks. The first to speak is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr von der Vring. Erling Bonnesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030200551	Thank you. The report by the Left is quite clear, although several attempts have been made by various rapporteurs, especially on the red wing, to cast doubt on it. Nevertheless, the course and the line of the Left in this area are quite clear. Public health is most important. People first. And then there must be proportions and coherence in things. It's about stopping the infection. It is about securing the future of the mink industry and currently saving as much of the mink sector as possible, while, of course, we are acting in good health. I think it has been very unfortunate to be able to follow that first the infection starts in North Jutland, then it moves south of Limfjorden, Midtjylland, Vestjylland, Esbjerg and in various other places. And then we have been able to keep up with the fact that the government has come completely unhelpful afterward and has groped out. There have been no meetings on this except that such a short technical meeting was held where we were told that this infection is not airborne. At the same time, then, the infection quickly went on faster than the government could keep up. At the same time, we also saw wondering why the government was slaughtering at a healthy mink. Well, why slaughter healthy mink? Of course, we also said clearly about infected mink that there should be more speed and that attention should be paid to those who were infected, precisely from the health perspective. But I can't believe you keep going. I am surprised, in fact, when I have stood here and discussed it several hours ago, that we still have not received a clear message from the government and the Social Democrats about it. Of course we shouldn't knock down healthy mink. Can't we get this straight tonight so we don't have to go down that road anymore? It can't be right when we can see that things can't be reached. Anyway, the government and the Social Democrats are unhelpful in this area. You can't make it. The fur season will be at the door in a minute and maybe in a week's time. So there are the plans and strategies that could then be briefed on today, and that is fine with it, but these are plans that cannot be implemented. I mean, it's okay to start free testing of the herds that had been infected, and that's good, that's what we say, but then we're just saying that we're going to get to the bottom. As far as possible, as far as possible - speed up the free testing of the herds which have been infected and where, fortunately, we know many of them will be healthy again. Because it takes a few weeks, and then the infection has run through the crew and through the minks. Why are you still getting away from this kind of scattered fight? It seems unbelievable. So that's some of what we'd like to help with. Now the Social Democrats have seen the ship in trouble with this proposal for adoption that we have seen, but I have offered, also on behalf of the Left, and I am sure that it is the same thing that applies to all the blue parties that we should like to come forward. And then it doesn't have to be just a technical meeting. It should not just be for information at a rapporteur's meeting. No, it must be for real negotiating meetings, so that we can get these things straightened out, the course changed, the strategy properly in place, so that we can focus on the fact that we must also have a good, strong and Danish mink and fur sector in the future. As we have also heard now, there were some rapporteurs from parties who are parliamentary basis who say that we could not take a break for a year. Well, you can't. The breeding strain we have in Denmark is the world's best, it is unique. We have to be careful about that. We can't just take a break. Of course things should be in order by spring, so that, we can say, in reassuring conditions, new minks can be set in motion. That's exactly what this is about. So there should be the question in the Ministry and, I believe, in the Social Democratic Party as to what it takes to get these things in place. It should not be the case that you have to grope up a little and listen to one side or the other, and then we have to see how things are going. No, there has to be a much more firm and clear course on this, and it can just get started. It can't be fast enough, as I will put it. But we'd be happy to help with that. Then I would also like to read briefly on behalf of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance the following: Proposals for adoption The people's health is most important. People first. There must be proportions and coherence in things. The Danish Parliament instructs the government to convene parties that want mink and fur production in Denmark in the future, to negotiate to ensure the survival of the mink industry and to ensure opportunities for the industry to recover. • V (6). • V (6). • In the latter case, it is not just going to survive it. We need it in the form we have. Well, we have the world's best mink production in Denmark also based on the world's best animal welfare. We simply must not put this at risk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030201122	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030201137	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left, who makes a great deal of effort to ensure that there is a high speed and that there is more speed. The rapporteur also says that there should have been more speed, and the rapporteur is also trying to emphasise that there is clarity about the course of the Left. I find it very difficult to spot. A very specific example is a speech I have made here, from the Jutland West coast, written by Mr. Erling Bonnesen's good colleague, Mrs Anni Matthiesen, from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety. On 12 October, she posted this post, where she writes: "The government is killing the mink farmers' livelihoods. Here Anni Mattiesen does among other things. I would like to make a few comments on the strategy that has been adopted. Well, it's not, you have to say, what Mr. Erling Bonnesen says here, that it takes more speed; it sounds almost like the opposite. Secondly, the Left member of the Committee on the Environment and Food points out that he does not think that compensation is good enough. So I have two questions. One is: how does this talk of 12 October relate to the fact that there is a clear line on the left side? The next point is: if you are unhappy with the compensation, which has been there for the last 30 years, can we not get a figure from the rapporteur of the Left? What would the right figure be for the Left to be satisfied with compensation? Can we get a clear number from the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030201256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030201257	But the rapporteur of the Left, the representative of the area to which reference is made, Mrs Anni Matthiesen, is quite right now, I assume that the correct reference has been made to the fact that the government and the Social Democratic Party are taking the livelihood from mink growers. Because that's what you do when you go out and butcher off, even on healthy mink, which you didn't have to do, and you take the livelihood out of people's mouths, which wasn't necessary. So that is quite correct. I cannot understand why the rapporteur can be in doubt about this. Then we have stressed on several occasions that we would like to come not only to technical reviews and discussions at a rapporteur's meeting but also, of course, to negotiating meetings; in this situation, some negotiating meetings are needed. And then we will have to clarify things, but it is the Social Democratic Party that is currently in power. I understand you're groping for new things. We will be here as soon as a meeting can be held in the calendar for negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030201350	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030201352	Although I have an educational background, I must say that I find it very, very difficult to find a head and a tail in what the rapporteur thinks. The rapporteur is now problematizing by saying that it is a problem that sick mink is killed just like it is to alleviate a health crisis. That is exactly what the rapporteur blames the government for, in other words, not having enough speed. So what does the rapporteur really mean? I have to say that when the Left goes out and criticises a system of compensation for not being good enough, then the Left should be able to answer: when will it be so good enough? Well, let's get a specific number. It is not just good to say: it is not good enough in the East, and it is not good enough in the West. Let us now get clarity from the Left. What do you mean? Put a number on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030201434	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030201436	Well, in relation to the compensation scheme, it's weird to make a difference between people. But that is something we can do at a negotiating meeting. In relation to the other, which I find interesting, and in relation to the infected mink, it is precisely that we say: We can see • and this is a good example • that the crew of the first farm in North Jutland that was infected has recovered, so they have been tested free, as it is said in the professional language. We need a lot more of this in order to get as many people as possible tested free so that we can bet on the breeding ground. And then we have also said: well then it may still be the case that there may be some individual cases which are close to me, I think, it was the rapporteur who himself mentioned it, for example. a nursing home, and it could be elsewhere, and then it is a concrete assessment where you decide on a possible slaughter if there are no other options.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030201523	Thank you. There is one more brief comment. Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030201526	I understand on the left that you're so infinitely smarter about this. And that is why I would like to hear quite specifically: how does the Left intend to prevent us from ending up in exactly the same situation as we are in next season? How will the Left prevent the spread of the infection and the fact that we have to spend a lot of money partly to compensate the growers and partly to knock down the herds?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030201558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030201600	This is a very relevant question, and if it were the case that the Left had been sitting in government offices now, I am sure that our minister would have put the lines that I mentioned there as a minister in the past. And the relevant question there is exactly the question that should have been asked earlier. Now you're in the soup bag now. And we have only been called for information, so if we are called for negotiations, and I hope that is what we are doing, then hopefully the Radical Left will be there too, then we can help each other to put that plan in place. After all, we have given clear instructions about this. I am not a specialist; I am a politician. I just said that we have to go that way and that we have to make sure. And it is in relation to that that a politician has to ask questions about the system and not just wait for some reports to come in one direction or another, and then we have to try to choose 'no', we have to set a course and a line and a goal and a strategy, and that is that we have to ensure that animals can also be put in cages in the spring. Because we cannot just skip a season, as the rapporteur mentioned earlier. These are things we must have on the table for such a negotiating meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030201659	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030201703	That was simply the least answer one could possibly get. Yeah, sorry, I didn't mean to offend you. But that simply means that the Left does not have an alternative strategy, and then I think that you are blowing up a lot and accusing the government of all sorts of things when you cannot even stand here today and come up with an alternative strategy when you have yourself called for a question debate, but just say: Uh, we do not need that, because we are politicians. Yeah, it's like... That is why we politicians have just said: then we have to listen to what the authorities are saying, because they are the ones who understand this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030201737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030201739	After all, we have been sitting down here for hours and listening very carefully, I take it from the radical rapporteur too, I am sure of that and heard that we must have stopped the slaughter of the healthy mink, and then we must have free-tested as many of those who had been infected, and then there are them in between, and that will be a concrete assessment. If there are any left of those who are infected, which is then a danger, yes, then one may have to resort to having them knocked down. So it's about stopping the infection quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030201807	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030201810	Thank you. I think it has been so wild to follow the Left in this process and in particular in the last few days. During the consultation yesterday evening, the battle against the slaughter of mink was settled, and it is both the sick and those within the 7.8 km limit. What does the rapporteur of the Left think would have happened if we had chosen not to strike the mines in Denmark? I imagine a situation in which the infection had spread even more disastrously across virtually all mink farms throughout the country, with the risk of mutation that comes with the spread of infection that comes with it. What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030201851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030201853	Well, that is exactly what was in the middle of the SF rapporteur's question, right in the middle of it, where it was just an emphasis, so it should be understood, a general slaughter of both healthy and sick mink. That is where the chain goes off, for then too much effort has been spent on going to slaughter healthy mink too, and then you have had too little power to take action in relation to those who were infected, from the beginning and with the focus on the newly infected, etc. And I've answered that a few times.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030201921	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030201923	But the killing of healthy mink is justified. Of course it is with some uncertainty, as SSI says, but it is based on the experiences of the first 20 infected farms in North Jutland, where one could see that within 7.8 km it was very likely that the infection spread rapidly. Precisely to ensure that there wasn't too much spread of infection, this line was made. So I don't understand why the professional basis is so much of a problem. After all, the recommendation from the experts is perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030201956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030201957	No, it's not entirely clear. But it is clear that the experts, as Mr. Carl Valentin and the SF have been looking for, they're the ones who say that. But there are also a number of experts who say otherwise. I can understand that, sir. Carl Valentin hasn't read. It is based on a small study on a small number of farms in North Jutland, and then it has spread to the whole country. And there are also experts who have said: Oh, don't over-interpret it and run it out and blow it up. I also understand that it is mostly based on fear and so on. So I think it's weird that the SF keeps blowing it up like you want to scare the whole population with it. I think that is wrong when there are also specialist experts who are, as it were, opposed to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030202037	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur of the Left. We go further in the rapporteur's line and the next rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030202113	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Left for calling this question debate so that on a Friday evening we can have a good and thorough discussion on the whole of the covid-19 situation in relation to mink crews in Denmark. There is no doubt that we are in a very, very serious situation and there should be no doubt that social democracy puts public health first. We try to listen to the advice we receive from the health authorities, the Veterinary Institute and the SSI to the best of our ability, and it is clear that we are very, very nervous about the risk that a future vaccine, currently at stage 3, will not work as intended because a covid-19 variant is mutated in the minks. It will ultimately mean human life; it will mean that we are under-priority to public health if we do not take this situation very seriously. That is why the government has also acted decisively when the large spread of infection came. Sick mink was killed, and then, in order for this fur animal industry to survive, we had a limit of 7.8 km, because the authorities said in relation to the experience they had that 95 per cent. The minks were most likely infected within this 7.8 km radius. And we can see that it's been really, really fast. Radiussen at the 7.8 km can help ensure that there is still fur production from mink in Denmark. It has also been important for the Social Democratic Party that the mink owners who were affected by this very, very sad situation and who have our greatest sympathy also received the compensation which is usually good tradition for in Denmark. For more than 30 years we have had an agreement with the industry, and it was the same thing that happened when there was foot-and-mouth disease in Denmark, and when there was avian flu in Denmark, so of course the minkkeepers must also have that compensation. The healthy mink crews within the safety range of 7.8 km, recommended by the SSI and the health authorities, receive 100 per cent. compensation because it is an explosive operation. I love the Danish people's government very much, I have good dialogues with the left in the Danish Parliament, where I signed for the last question debate, F 9, and I also have a very good cooperation with the bourgeois parties on a daily basis, and what I really think is to the credit of the Danish Parliament is that we can work together across parties across the middle. I have listened to the wish that a meeting be held and that a debate be held. I think it is essential in the Danish people's government that no parties are excluded in advance, no parties are excluded, but I understand the Left wants that with their adoption text, because they simply do not think that anyone should be invited to the table. I do not think that suits the Danish Parliament; I do not think that it suits a party which courtesy to take over government power, that in a health crisis it wants to exclude someone in advance. I would like to read out to Question F 10 a text for adoption which I hope will have broad support in the Danish Parliament so that we can agree here today in the Chamber that we should meet and that we should discuss things. Therefore, on behalf of S, I shall make the following: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament instructs the Government to convene all parties of the Danish Parliament to discuss the possibilities for future mink production in Denmark. The Folketing supports future mink production, taking into account the recommendations of the health and veterinary authorities. • V 7). Moreover, it should be able to slide down with the vast majority of those who have claimed today that public health is the top priority and who want to demand a meeting and who would like to discuss how we can ensure Danish mink and fur animal production in the future. So I would like to make this proposal for adoption, and I hope that the good intentions and the positive intentions can also be perceived. I also think I have endeavoured to do this bilaterally, not least with good bilateral discussions, which I always have with the rapporteur of the Left on the issues we represent. So I sincerely hope that this is something that can enjoy broad support.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030202620	Thank you. This proposal for adoption will also be included in the further negotiations. Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030202633	Thank you very much. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Thank you, too, for the proposal for adoption that has been put forward, in which we should try to drill a little more. On the very first line, there is a debate on the possibilities, and I would like to focus a little on the possibilities. Is it also the case that we can say that the Social Democrats would like to distance themselves from another proposal for adoption, which is there, or should there be the possibility of taking it as a matter of course, as we do in the Left, that we should have mink and fur production in the future, so that we should not look at what specific tools we have to put in place? I would like an answer to that. And the next point: when it is that the rapporteur is also talking quite well about discussions, does the rapporteur agree that we have now had a technical meeting, we have been informed at a rapporteur's meeting, but that we must now have a negotiating meeting next time, if that is to be the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030202744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030202746	I would like to start by signing up to the rapporteur of the Left, not least for the fact that it should not sound like polemical questioning. In fact, I did not think that a proposal for adoption on three lines would have to be filleted and that this was asked exactly in relation to the meaning of the words. Our proposal for adoption says quite clearly, Mr President. Erling Bonnesen read out that the Danish Parliament supports that, too, the Minister has just explained and said that one is not afraid to look at opportunities. What we are leaning on is the recommendation of the health authorities in relation to the safety of the population, because we are simply nervous that a future vaccine will not work as intended. I hear the rapporteur from the Left who signs that public health is being put at the top of the list, that is what this proposal for adoption says. I hear that the rapporteur from the Left is calling for a clear answer as to whether we support future mink production in Denmark, but that is what the text says. So I do not understand at all that there should be any question whatsoever and that this proposal for adoption is not just being accepted with a kissing hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030202900	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030202902	The whole debate here has, of course, contributed to the fact that we had the basis for it, but let it be said that we have been through it. In my second comment, I should like to be very brief and say that on the other hand, the recommendations of the health and veterinary services are taken into account. Is it to be understood that it is not the government and it is not the politicians who have to decide it, but that it is the administration in this way? There are several ways to consider, that is, listen, weigh and evaluate, or how is that supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030202936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030202938	Well, now I don't think you should start making this more problematic than it is. I have been sitting in the Folketing for a year and a half, and I have already observed, at least, that when we sit in the Ministry of the Environment and Food, it is no stranger to anyone that the recommendations of the veterinary authorities are being considered; it is actually more customary than it is foreign to anyone, and of course I think we should do the same in this matter too. Why do we have to treat mink cattle differently than we treat all sorts of others? And then I would also like to offer the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Mr Bonnesen, as I did during the debate on the question of F 9, is that when Mr Beazley is speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, he is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Liberal Democrats, Democratic and Reformist Group, on behalf of the Socialist Group. Erling Bonnesen presents the Left's plan, I would like to But I have not yet received a plan from the Left, either bilaterally or here today, to suit the government in Denmark. So a clear call to the rapporteur: send me the plan! Then we'll have a look at it and talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030203032	Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030203036	Thank you. I'd like to drill back into what exactly we're working on... why are these 7.8 miles that you're talking about? Will the Socialists work to ensure that we get more evidence in this area, so that it is based on a concrete causality, that is, that we do not just look at some factors? There is, of course, a difference between whether you see that several factors are present or whether you can actually see that there is a correlation between the factors. Will the Socialists work for us to get more empire, more knowledge of what this is actually due to, so that the government does not feel compelled to use statistics rather than evidence on the basis of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030203127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030203128	So, although I am a party colleague with the country's Minister for Food, I would like to assure Mrs Louise Schack Elholm that if the Minister had stood on the floor of the Parliament and said that there was no dialogue with the industry and that this was not investigated, I should be the first to say to the Minister: we need to look into that. However, I hear that the country's Minister for Food says that this is being investigated, that there is an ongoing dialogue and that, if other recommendations based on health care come to mind, we are also ready to look at it. So I feel completely safe, completely covered in. But I regret the fact that our skilled staff in the Ministry of Health, our skilled staff at the Statens Serum Institute, must experience the distrust expressed today by a large number of politicians here in the Danish Parliament. I think that when you are a layman and you have to look after public health, it is quite natural and also essential that you actually both lean on and listen to our supreme authority when it comes to taking good care of human life and public health. That is what the government is doing, and that is what Social Democracy is doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030203241	Thank you. Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030203242	It would probably be easier for others to deal with if it were very clear what the health authorities came up with and if then there was a political priority. But we've just seen through this period that these things have been muddy together. That is why there is perhaps a lack of clarity as to what is actually the professional judgement and what is the political priority. And it's as if it's repeatedly that they're mixed together. That's why we're just asking you if you don't want to try to get this information. In relation to the fact that it has to be 7.8 km, it does not seem as if there is a causality in it, and there should be when you impose something on people.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030203319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030203321	In other words, I do not share the view of the author or the view that there is no professionalism in relation to the recommendation for the 7.8 km. In fact, I believe that the Minister has explained very, very clearly and very clearly that 95 per cent. of the farms located within a radius of 7.8 km, it is estimated that they will be infected. So I actually consider that it is both the concern to take good care of our public health, to take good care of human life, but that it is also about taking good care of the mink industry in relation to shutting the infection in.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030203356	Thank you. Then it's Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030203400	Thank you. I just want to hear from the Socialist rapporteur what measures the mink growers have not taken to prevent the infection?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030203412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030203414	I haven't accused the minkcats of anything. I have the greatest sympathy for the Danish mink growers. It must be a terribly hard situation to stand in. I mean, this covid-19 is pretty unpredictable in many places. We can see how it spreads in European cities and how some countries have to say to their people: you can only go out if you have an errand. In Denmark, we are no longer allowed to be in a bar after 2 p.m. 22.00, we must not be more than 500 in a football stadium, and many other things have been put in place. It is not, of course, because the people or, for that matter, the mink farmers have not been responsible and have not done what they could. That is also why it has been very important for us that the mink growers should have the compensation that has been traditionally enjoyed in Denmark for the last 30 years. There I understand that there are some nuances between government and social democracy and then the Left, and I still have the benefit of hearing what is then the exact figure for compensation that the Left wants. However, I have no basis to say that mink cattle have not been decent or done enough and so on. It's a terrible situation they're in.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030203524	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030203526	Yes, it is a terrible situation, and then it is possible to consider whether to continue driving, as has always been done, or whether to reconsider the situation. It is just that the answers from the Socialist rapporteur and from the Minister are that there must also be an incentive to reduce the infection. However, when both the Socialist rapporteur and the Minister said at the conciliation meeting last Wednesday that no one had reason to suspect the Danish minkers for not having done everything they could, the Socialist rapporteur can understand why there are minkers sitting in Denmark thinking: well, when no one claims that we have done something wrong, why should we have less compensation?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030203604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030203606	I understand that there is a sadness around the Danish mink growers, but I would also like to say very clearly that I will be much more saddened if it actually turns out that a future vaccine does not work as intended, so that when Mr. Jensen has been infected on a mink farm and his wife maybe 3 weeks or 1 month after getting this horrible disease, but then a future vaccine might not be able to help this older wife if there's a mink in this covid-19. That would be awful. That would be a national disaster. So, of course, we must put public health first. And I am still waiting for a reply from the Left, the wooing government party, to what the figure should be. What is a proper compensation? I still have the credit to hear it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030203708	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030203711	Thank you. As far as the proposal for adoption is concerned, it is not something that SF can support, because it is part of the fact that we still support mink production in Denmark, and we obviously do not. But I think it is a sensible idea to call for negotiations, so I hope that this will be done. In any case, I am glad that we are thinking of convening all the parties so that no one is excluded in advance. But I would really like to ask the rapporteur about the future of Danish mink production. Because isn't this a good time to get this production off the ground? We are in a situation where the infection is huge, where it poses a threat to public health, where the economy of the industry is extremely poor.There has been a deficit in 2016 to 2019 and where the animals also have some incredibly bad lives and live in tiny cages. Does not all the many arguments give reason to say that it is perhaps now that we have to phase out mink production in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030203757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030203759	I think that question deserves a proper answer. Firstly, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the fact that, although we are making a proposal for adoption, where we do not agree with the SF, but actually appeal to the other side of the House, we are not being accused of being in the pocket of the Left or anyone else in the bourgeois camp. I think that serves the debate, so thank you for that. By the way, I think that the question on my part is about properness. We are in a very serious health crisis, the biggest one I can remember in recent Danish history. Many have died, and there are companies that do not survive this in the long run, and I do not think that you should sneak in cases through the back door and wind up mink production in Denmark. If we are to dismantle production, whatever it is we are talking about, it must of course be done in a calm and orderly manner, the parties must discuss it with each other, and we must discuss it with the industry. However, I do not think that the time is ripe for us to run a business, and that is also why I am clearly appealing to the bourgeois parties in here. I hope that this proposal for adoption is adopted and that we sit down at the table and talk constructively about these things rather than making theatrical order.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030203926	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030203927	But, sir. Anders Kronborg, it's not like you're sneaking something in. After all, SF has been completely open all the way through for more than a decade that we have been opposed to mink production of animal ethical considerations. I just think it makes sense to do something now because we are already compensating the industry because we can see that their future is uncertain because we are still having to give them a bag of money. Then we could say that you might want to retrain and start doing something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030203943	That view I recognise SF has, and I also recognise that SF has been very, very clear about this point of view. It has been the policy of the Social Democratic Party that we in Denmark should still have fur and mink production, also in the future, and therefore, if we supported the SF in that view, it would be sneaking a policy area through the back door in a very, very serious health crisis. So we are not in favour of that, and there we have one view, and the SF has another view, and we must then acknowledge that we cannot reach each other. Fortunately, however, we can talk, and I also hope that the SF will then be able to enrich the forthcoming discussions that will take place, and that is why I also hope that a future proposal for adoption will receive broad support.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030204040	Thank you. Then it's mr. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030204042	Thank you. I'd like to dwell on the compensation. I remember back to when Denmark was shut down on 11-12. March, and the first thing our Prime Minister said was that all public employees would, of course, receive full pay in this crisis. I thought that was really nice, and I took my hat off because it gave security to the public employees. We are also in a situation where thousands of kroner bills have been distributed to some who have not even had any losses, but who have been on transfer income at some point, and who have then received 1,000 kroner, many actually so completely without they had demanded it or wanted it. Then we have some operators, and here it is the mink farmers who, because they have been so unlucky that their animals have been infected by a zoonosis, i.e. a disease that goes both on animals and on humans, must be eaten off with a 20-percent compensation of their operating losses. I also heard that the rapporteur spoke of properness in this. Does the rapporteur think that it is proper to eat people off with a 20-percent loss compensation for a long, long period?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030204139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030204141	I think there's a lot of people sitting at home listening at the moment who can nod to the fact that this whole coronapandemic is violent. It is violent both in terms of cultural life, in terms of our restaurant life and in terms of our exports. Fortunately, Denmark has come much better through this covid-19 situation at this time than other countries are. When we compare it with the compensation given to the mink owners, it has already been said here today that it is actually significantly better than some of the aid packages that we see, and I cannot help thinking that this is not new knowledge. After all, it has been there for more than 30 years, and why should there be a different approach when it comes to mink farmers than when it has been about farmers whose herds got mad cow disease or when it has been about farmers whose herds got avian flu? I also remember, if I am not mistaken, that during the last period, among other things, there was a sitting. President. - I call the Liberal and Democratic Reformist Group. Jacob Ellemann Jensen, at the Ministry of the Environment and Food, so it has not been new that things can arise and that diseases can occur in the crews. So the civil servants and the Conservatives were in government too, after all, if at the time you didn't think that this arrangement, which has been for 30 years, was proper, to propose a whole new arrangement to the parties of the Danish Parliament for when we were in a pandemic.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030204258	Thank you. Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030204300	I understand that the rapporteur's knowledge of livestock production is limited. If so, for example. If you have a pig production, it will take a while before the pigs are fattened up, and if there is a disease in them and there is some operational loss there, there is a new team of pigs inside the stable, and you can then work on them. This could last for years. So my question should be: what compensation will the rapporteur think the mink growers should have by 2021? And if the crisis lasts for both 2022 and 2023, what compensation do they need to have in order to talk about properness?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030204336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030204337	I have made it very clear from the floor of the Parliamentary Chair, just as the Minister has also indicated that we think that the arrangements currently in place are both proper and good, and they have also been in existence for over 30 years and have been used in other respects. However, I would like to say to the Conservative rapporteur that if, like the Left, they want to present their own plan for how we can do better, I will use all night for that matter to read through this plan and I will help the Minister to get these plans answered. But I have not seen a plan from the Left or Conservatives or any other of the bourgeois parties. But it should be so warmly welcomed, and then we'll look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030204418	Thank you. Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030204420	Thank you. I have to say that the level of this debate is falling as time passes. That Mr. Anders Kronborg will seriously stand on the platform and say that one could just have predicted that there would be a global pandemic, and then have revised the rules in this area, and that one would be aware to stand and compare the compensation requirements during the bird flu with that during the covid-19, I simply do not think one can be familiar with the people who lose their life's work, lose their jobs and ultimately have to leave house and home. I just hope we can raise the level a little more. Several of my colleagues have asked about the health certificate for the 7.8-kilometre limit. And when we ask and ask again, it is of course because we basically do not get answers, and also because the government we have in Denmark today just a few days ago has had to admit that the 6-day rule, compared to not having to spend the night in Copenhagen, did not have medical evidence. I can see that the Minister for Health has even replied to it in writing to the Folketing. So there is a reason why we want to see what is politically determined and what has a medical record. Can the rapporteur respond?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030204529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030204531	I would like to confirm that I will certainly do my utmost to raise the political level. You ask very clearly: does the Social Democratic Party think that the compensation system is good enough? I'll say, yes, we think so. That is a very clear answer. I have called for a very specific figure from the Left in relation to what a good and satisfactory compensation is for the employees. I have not been told, but I have been eaten away by the fact that it might be taken in a negotiating room. But I would very, very much like to relate to a very specific figure from the Left. Now we have come out in the late hours and the Left has had at least about 5 hours to consider what a proper compensation is then when one criticises compensation. So I would really like to take part in that, and I would like to promise that I will deal with that when there is a specific figure from the Left. Then Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby asks a little about the health authorities' recommendation. I mean, I am quite confident about the recommendations that we have received from the health authorities. After all, Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby knows the Ministry of Health thoroughly and knows that they are skilled employees. I cannot help thinking that Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby is also hurting a bit when she hears the massive criticism of the official work of our health system.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030204641	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030204643	Now I don't know what kind of criticism it is, sir. Anders Kronborg refers to. We ask for proof of the decisions taken by the government. It's pretty reasonable. We are a democracy, we are a government of the people. We can't have that. We find that extremely sad. That is why we must, of course, put before the people's regime the overall knowledge we have and the overall documentation, also in relation to the 7.8 km limit. In doing so, it is because, as I said, we have seen several examples of the government hiding behind the health authorities, and it has subsequently turned out that it was not a health recommendation. Most recently, we have seen it in relation to the 6-day rule. But I would really like to ask the rapporteur in concrete terms: what is it in the blue proposal for adoption that makes the Socialists unable to support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030204725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030204727	There were many questions for 30 seconds, Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. I want to say that I think the government has presented this very well. On Wednesday there were two rounds of consultations where the Minister was both called by the Left and by the SF. There the Minister replied to questions and put everything forward. I am aware that I have been asked or the Minister will have to correct me when he comes up here over 70 questions in this Chamber and many have been answered and the cases are clearly clarified. And in relation to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left, I think it is a pity for the people's regime, Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, that in a health crisis in which Denmark is faced, the Left says that there are parties that they do not want to go in and have coffee. I do not think the Danish people's government deserves that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030204814	Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030204818	In about a month's time, if you present the extermination of mink that the government is in charge of at the moment, we will put the last mink down in Denmark. About a month. Is it not a little late for us to remember here, after five months of corona with mink, that we would like to have the Left at the negotiating table, that we would like to cooperate? Mr. Anders Kronborg, isn't it really a little late? And is that an expression of the fact that it is slipping away from the government? It is quite hopeless to see a government that cannot make a proposal for adoption or anything else that can give hope to Danish minkers, and after five months it is said: the Left will not come to negotiations. Yes, we would like to, but I guess we'd hoped we'd come a long time ago. Can the rapporteur here in the Chair mention just one initiative that will be taken to meet the mink industry? Is there some initiative where you say: We put it here in the lake, because of course there must be hope for the mink industry in Denmark in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030204932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030204933	I think, of course, when I see the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left, that it is really close to the proposal for adoption that I am putting forward here. There are also no long doctoral theses on how to get rid of this. It was, moreover, at the request of the Left, firstly, the proposal for adoption which I made as a compromise, was actually much longer and contained much more detail, but I understood that the Left wanted a brief proposal for adoption in connection with this debate on the question, so I have, in all honesty, tried to respond to what the Left itself wanted when we discussed a proposal for adoption bilaterally. In fact, I had thought that it could be satisfied that it was being met. I'd like to say to Mr. Thomas Danielsen, that there is a clear statement from the government that you are in dialogue with the industry, that you are in dialogue with the industry, and that the health authorities are in the process of completely drilling this out, and we are also writing clearly in this proposal for adoption and that is why I do not understand that you are starting to polemicise further that we support a future mink production in Denmark either.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030205044	Thank you. Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030205047	But show it to me. Give just one example of what you will do to promote mink production in Denmark in this completely insane and hopeless situation we are facing. Just give me one example of saying: this is what we are putting on the table for negotiations; it is an action we are going to take. Give an example.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030205105	I think, for example, that it is a very, very good step for the mink industry, within a radius of 7.8 km, to receive compensation of 100 per cent. So it's considerably more than we see anywhere else in this society compared to the covid-19 situation. However, I have not yet received a confirmation from the Left that we can support a proposal for adoption, where we get to the table and talk about things. And then I'll just have to say to Mr. Simpson. Thomas Danielsen: It almost sounds like when we stand at the gold weight and weigh, mink weighs significantly more for the Left than for human life and public health.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030205145	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030205147	I would like to follow up on my good colleague Mr. Thomas Danielsen's question. I think the rapporteur should have another chance to give that hope to the mink farmers out there. Now we have been discussing this matter for almost six hours, and not one positive message has yet been sent to the mink industry. So one more chance for the rapporteur: what is that solution? Just one specific suggestion, you have to be able to shake out of your sleeve. What was mentioned about compensation has been there from the very beginning.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030205227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030205229	Thank you for the question to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. I think, and I hope that the industry has also noted that we are doing everything in our power to ensure that this infection does not spread any further. That is also why we have supported a 7.8 kilometre limit in relation to stopping this spread of infection. And then I would like to say to Ulla Tørnæs, and it is also an invitation that it is very easy to criticise. It is very easy to ask a member of parliament from the Social Democratic Party question. The hardest part is that you come up with a plan yourself that you come up with a plan! And I have not received an answer yet: will there be a proposal from the Left to a plan after this question debate? Or will the Left continue with the controversy, continue with the cheap points, if I may say so? Because that is not true when the Left says that people put public health first. Because putting public health first would also listen to the clear and clear recommendations made by the health authorities. And when the health authorities tell you that a future vaccine may not work, then the elderly can suffer at the nursing home, it can affect the sick and the vulnerable. And that is where we must do our utmost to give priority to human life.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030205341	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030205343	There was little hope from the rapporteur here either. So let me turn to something else: the proposal for adoption here, where the Social Democratic Party proposes that all parties of the Folketing be convened for discussion. Now we saw before a discussion between the government and the parliamentary basis of the government, which clearly wants to close the mink business. Why, then, should we waste our precious time having discussions with parties that do not want the mink industry to have a future in Denmark? Isn't that a waste of our precious time?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030205425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030205427	I simply do not share Mrs Ulla Tørnæs' view that we in the Danish Parliament and in the Parliament's platform and by a majority of the Danish Parliament's parties should decide to exclude some parties from coming over and having a cup of coffee on important discussions. I simply do not recognise that. And I think it is a bad thing, and I simply cannot understand why the Left will not meet on this; that one will not meet around the proposal for adoption where it is clear: the Danish Parliament supports future mink production taking into account the recommendations of the health and veterinary authorities. I hear the rapporteur from the Left postulate that the Left puts public health first. I may have my doubts, but it can at least be fully confirmed by voting in favour of this proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030205512	There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Anders Kronborg, and we go further in the rapporteur's line, and the next one is Mrs Lise Bech from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030205533	Thank you. A great deal has been said here this evening about some nonsense on the part of some people. We have still not received any detailed answers on the professional basis on which the government has decided these mass deaths. Minkers have finally been listened to, who long asked to be allowed to kill infected animals themselves. It is important that this is done quickly and effectively. It is the mink and their employees used to handle. The Danish Veterinary Consortium has written in their consultation note that the effect of killing on infected farms is estimated to be limited if the mines cannot be killed before widespread spread of infection within the farm. Therefore, it is very important that newly contaminated animals are killed first, quickly and effectively. One question may then be: Has the slow handling of killing by the FDA at first contributed to the fact that we are where we stand today? The infection exploded after October 1st. In September there were 20 infected farms. So now we really have a lot of farms that are infected. Whether it has anything to do with some of the foreign employees that the Danish Food Authority has employed from the temporary agency, I should not be able to say. But it's funny that it's only really exploded after they came in. Anyway, there's been a lot of talk about the 7.8-kilometre zone, so I'm not really gonna say anything about minkmutations and compensations. So there are others who do. And it's also kind of like the Minister shuts down when we start talking about it. I am glad that we are now hearing that it is also important for the government and that work is being done for the mink industry so that we can avoid job losses and so that we do not close these mink farms. These are, to a large extent, jobs in rural areas. There are about 6,000 jobs in the industry and in the downstream industry, and that means something where I come from: North Jutland. The jobs are not just hanging on the trees, not to mention the major consequences that closure will have for the many families living and living with the industry. For fur farming is largely family-run businesses. I had actually written that I miss hearing the Minister say that there is a search for opportunities. However, just before we went to the Chamber today, we managed to come to a small meeting. Because otherwise it has just been so and it has actually happened tonight that you repeat yourself and say that it is the health authorities who decide the strategy and that the minister corrects in. So I think that the Minister could have been more forward in his shoes and had met with various professionals at an earlier stage. We know they've been asking for it since the beginning. I also know that I myself asked for it, just after the technical review that we had just before the autumn break, when the Minister called me, but I thought it should have been a meeting with all the rapporteurs. But you can also say that when you keep up with the media like that, and we probably do; all of us who sit back here on a Friday night, it seems as if there is a big difference between what the experts from SSI, SST, KU, the Danish Food Authority, the mink industry and the mink doctors think. And perhaps you should also have looked a little more to the Netherlands, which got the infection before Denmark. They haven't been able to see the effect of knocking down the minks. In the Netherlands, too, new infected farms are constantly coming in. In the conciliation we had last Wednesday, the Minister spoke of mink farms being contagious reservoirs, and that is why healthy herds have to be reduced, that the number is important. And maybe I've taken that into account, that's what this number means. So, in view of what the Minister said at that time, I would therefore like to suggest to the Minister that he should at least ensure that breeders can preserve the healthy farms and farms that are healthy again. But it's settled. But otherwise, you can say, also in relation to the healthy farms, that when you strike, it is about 20 per cent. by a crew. That means that the number matters, and if we're down to 20%, you have the germinal material in place after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030210052	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030210056	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate. I would say that no one is obliged beyond their abilities, and to say that a lot of nonsense has been said from the parliamentary platform, is perhaps just to tighten it up. In fact, I think that the vast majority have gone to great lengths. I would have liked to see a plan coming from the Left here tonight. I've put out a BOLO on that one. I hope that it will come afterwards, so that we can go into depth with it and listen to the many good advices that may come from the party that courtesy the government. But now that I am speaking to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, it is because on 27 October Mrs Lise Bech has an article in the Agricultural News, the title being: 'Drop the killing mink'. Mrs Lise Bech believes that now is the time to simply stop killing mink. Therefore, allow me to ask Mrs Lise Bech: if we cannot now have a plan from the Left on the strategy, then the Danish People's Party's plan is so completely contrary to what Mr. Erling Bonnesen says it's gonna be turbo on the killing of infected mink? DF's rapporteur says that no mink should be killed. Is DF's plan really not to kill mink infected with covid-19?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030210211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030210212	The rapporteur has been very concerned about the plan of the Left all evening and has said: 'Come with the plan of the Left'. I am not going to defend the Left, but it is not the Left who sits with the professionals. The industry has put forward a plan. They've done that a long time ago. That's the one we're looking at. We have to look at what comes from those who know something about it. It is not necessarily the Left that brings the grains of gold. Probably the experts are doing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030210241	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030210242	I would like to endorse and say that I very much agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that it is not necessarily the Left that brings the gold grains and that we have to listen to the professionals. I also have full confidence in the government. However, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party failed completely to reply to what I asked, namely that on 27 October 2020 Mrs Lise Bech has an article in the Agricultural Newspaper entitled "Drop the execution of mink'. In fact, I find it interesting whether the Danish People's Party is saying today that we are now just stopping completely with the killing of mink. Can we not have a clear answer from the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030210319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030210320	I would very much like to answer that question. If the rapporteur had read the whole article, he would have seen that what the Danish People's Party believes is that we should stop killing healthy mink and mink that has come through this which has antibodies in it and is immune. The last thing we're about to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030210343	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030210347	I just want to know what the new strategy is gonna be in the new season. Well, how are we supposed to deal with possible new infection and contain the infection? Does the Danish People's Party have any idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030210400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030210402	Well, the industry itself has offered that, and so have the mink doctors. So I actually don't think it's that hard. Well, you could say we made a lot of mistakes if we look back in time. In fact, I was on TV2 Nord as early as September, before the whole thing went crazy, to say: let us now isolate the people who are on the infected farms. But now we are here where we are today, and we must listen to those who know something about this. Plans have emerged in relation to what they think we should do in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030210439	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030210441	But what are these plans? I assume that, when the bourgeois parties are called for a debate on this, and if you want a different line, then we should also be able to expect to hear something more about what they are planning, instead of just referring to the industry. Can I hear what you're gonna do? I can ask quite specifically: if a herd is infected, what should you do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030210504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030210506	Among the breeding animals I believe we must preserve, there are those who have been infected, those who are north of the fjord, we have heard today. They are very likely not to be infected again. We can't know about the others. This is also true in relation to healthy mink, which you stand here and want to kill; that is healthy mink that has never been sick. Maybe they'll never get sick.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030210537	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left. Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030210552	Thank you. After all, we have addressed some of the issues that the debate is now about in the previous debate, so I would just like to repeat some of my points from there. We are quite comfortable with the line being taken right now, although we can nevertheless see that there is an explosive outbreak right now. But it's also because we only found out late, perhaps too late, how well this virus really thrives in these mink herds. And yet later we have found out that it not only thrives well and, of course, also infects mink herds nearby, but that there is also this risk of mutation, which has made the situation even more serious. That is why we are one hundred per cent behind the government and the strategy, which, of course, is not designed by the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Gender Equality, but which is based on the advice and guidance of the professional and knowledgeable authorities. The principle of killing the sick herds and also of knocking down the neighbouring crews within a radius of these 7.8 km has, of course, been very much discussed today. In fact, I can sometimes be a tiny bit confused about the points raised by the bourgeois, because they say that we must quickly knock down the sick crews, and I completely agree with that, but there is also much talk about this free-test, and these are the crews that we have been too slow to strike down, which we can then give a chance to. There's something there that doesn't add up. On the one hand, it is said that the government and the authorities have been too slow, that they should have struck them down immediately. At the same time, on the other hand, it is said that because they were so slow, we must give them a chance. It just doesn't add up. At least this is not enough to be a forward-looking strategy, because a forward-looking strategy cannot allow what is called free-testing, because that is where the sick herd is killed immediately. Then there has also been a lot of criticism of these neighbouring crews or zonal crews that are being struck and that are not yet infected. When you've chosen to make this radius and then knock them down, it's because you've seen from experience from the 20 cases in North Jutland that this is the radius where you've found the infection. That is not the same as saying that all mink herds in a radius of 7.8 km are infected, but there is a risk of that. And when you think about how serious it is when a herd gets infected, it is, on the one hand, the risk that it will infect new herds out there, and, on the other, the risk of infection, and, on the other hand, the fact that, above all, a mutation is developing in that herd that undermines the work of vaccines. This is the risk that, in order to be on the safe side, you're gonna beat that circle, that circle, and then these neighboring or zone crews are gonna be knocked down. It is not, of course, because there is a hundred percent certainty that these herds are infected, but there is a risk that they will become infected, and if they are infected, there is a risk that there will be a mutation, and there is a risk that that mutation will ultimately undermine not only Denmark's vaccine work but the whole world's vaccine work. That is, of course, the explanatory statement. But no, we do not have 10,000 cases that we can use to create a proper statistical system, and in this way the whole Corona crisis and the way we deal with the crisis are, after all, based on quite a lot of uncertainty. However, with our support and support, the government has opted for a precautionary principle. It can then be said that it has not been more cautious than we are currently faced with 182 infected herds. So, yes, it is a precautionary principle, but perhaps in reality a little too late. However, we are satisfied with this, and that is why we are happy to enter into a dialogue with the government to put forward a strategy for the next season. Because we don't believe that we can just start over, and then we avoid infection. Why shouldn't the infection come back when we see it explode now, despite the enormous vigilance that is about the risk of infection among the authorities, yes, but indeed among the mink farmers themselves? How, then, is it possible that we should be able to put new litters into the world without experiencing this explosive infection? I find that very difficult to imagine, which is why I see no other option but to sit down and assess what opportunities we have and what makes the best sense for public health, but also for the Danish economy and, to that extent, for the mink-cultivars' economy. I am quite confident that we will do this with the government, and I would like the bourgeois parties to contribute. I think that would be best for everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030211101	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030211102	Thank you. I also see that the radical rapporteur somewhere is trying to look a little for arguments and facts on which to try to build something. And the very thing about free testing, which the rapporteur also mentions at the beginning of his speech, makes sense, and in relation to a mink farm that has a herd that has been infected, we know that this infection runs through these two weeks very quickly and then they get well again. And that is what is so important, so that you can have them free-tested, because then they can help to form the basis for some breeding animals that can then be deployed. Then I agree with the fact that there are some things that need to be put in place in relation to our previous discussion so that things do not go wrong in relation to health. So it makes sense to have them tested free, because they are healthy again, and you can say that they have antibodies, etc. So somewhere they're almost stronger, you might say. I do not know if there is any justification for this, but they are at least as strong. So does the rapporteur not agree that this makes sense?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030211208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030211210	But it is incredibly inconsistent on the one hand to say that the authorities have been too slow to beat down the sick crews and that it is therefore the fault of the authorities and the government that it exploded so, and then in the next sentence to say: but because you have taken so long, we would like to give them a chance and test them again once they have recovered. Well, it actually sounds a little like the Left would just like to let those crews be sick and then hope that they get well again, and then you can fur them, and then we're all happy. What we then just risk that has happened in the meantime is that there are a lot of people who have been infected at best by the virus that we know; at worst, it may be that these mutations are developing that undermine our vaccine work. And I just have to say that I really think that the Left and the other bourgeois parties take this risk very lightly. It is also because it is not just a question of public health in Denmark; it is simply global public health. It's the whole world that's shut down because of this virus, and now we're running the risk that our Danish mink production will put that work at risk. I think it's crazy that you can have your head so deeply buried in your own navel, or whatever it is that you can act so irresponsiblely.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030211320	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030211321	No, but there I think the radical rapporteur is skating too superficially over it. Now there is only a short speaking time, but I would say that you have to include it in the perspective if you like to try to build on it with free testing to form breeding animals next year, that the fur season will start in just a few minutes or so you will be in full swing. We can only note that what is being rolled out now, which will take 6-8 weeks, cannot be achieved because the fur season is coming. And then you can say that if you have to try to build up in relation to having a production up to next year, which we think you should, then there is a need for a free test of some more. And then you can leave the other discussion for a while. Of course, we take health prospects seriously. We have turned that around in the past. But will the radical rapporteur not consider this again?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030211411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030211413	Well, first of all, I understand that these minks can get infected again even if they have antibodies. So it's not like they're immune to corona in this way. As far as I understand, there is a risk of that yet, so it is not entirely certain. Secondly, I also think that there is something that violates my sense of justice here, in relation to someone who has been so lucky that the authorities came to them a little later, and then they could be allowed to keep their breeding animals, while the others did not get that chance. And what are the incentives it creates, as the SF's rapporteur also mentioned? I think that is a very, very uncertain and unfortunate strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030211451	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030211455	Thank you. Although it is about to be late on Friday evening, I think that the various rapporteurs should also have our attention in this Chamber, because it is precisely an important debate. I can see that all the Left's authors are not here anymore; they may have gone out to write on the Left's plane. You can hope for that. Anyway, joke aside. I don't think we'll see it. Specifically, what is the Radical Left's position on the text adopted by the Social Democratic Party? Now Mrs Zenia Stampe followed the debate here earlier that we would like to convene all parties in the Folketing for a discussion. We want to ensure and support future mink production, taking into account, of course, the recommendations of the health and veterinary authorities to put public health first. I would also like to acknowledge this to the radical rapporteur. In fact, I feel very good and very secure in my stomach, because I feel that there is a politician on the platform here who really cares about public health. I think that's just really important in this pandemic we're in. But what is the rapporteur's position on the text of the adoption?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030211604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030211605	I have not yet taken a position on that, because I shall have the opportunity to turn this over with my parliamentary group. I think I've only gotten the draft today. We are not, of course, in favour of a ban on mink production, but I also have to discuss the prospects in this with my group, and there I might also have to get even more input from the government because what kind of time perspective are we looking into? So, in how many seasons are we going to have to make up for and put down herds? So I actually need both to turn it around with my group, but in fact also qualify it a little before we do our job. We are not in favour of a ban. But if we look into a multi-annual period in which no new litter can be planted in the world and where we face some very large extra bills, we now face a bill of 1 billion. I would like to have the opportunity to discuss that scenario with my parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030211712	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030211714	That, of course, is also perfectly fair. I can confirm that only today did I turn to the radical rapporteur about the text of the adoption... it was around other systems purely bilaterally. But at least I am also available in relation to resolving issues at the level at which I have the opportunity to do so. Because I think it is important in a health crisis that we do not want to have a decision in Parliament, as some parties here in Parliament, that some parties should be excluded from negotiations, so a decision that some parties should be excluded in advance. What, moreover, is Mrs Zenia Stampe's view of the principle that it should be adopted here in the Danish Parliament; that is, that there are some parties that want to adopt something in which some parties are kept out in a health crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030211752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030211754	Yeah, I think that's a tiny bit absurd, too. Then we could also say that those who don't care about animal welfare might have to stay out when we discussed it. It was just a joke. It's kind of weird if you disqualify each other. I think it's a difficult situation and discussion. I just have to admit that. I think there is a need to have some basic discussions. And even if we are not in favour of a ban, I think it takes a little more discussion, and I will also allow myself to have that with my own parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030211828	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Lise Bech.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030211831	Thank you. I think the rapporteur was somewhat wrong in saying this. A lot of people are infected, that's right, but we can agree that they're not infected because of mink. They're just not. I would like to hear from these free-tested mink farms, in which we are now going to try to continue with the breeding animals, how much risk the rapporteur thinks there is for the healthy farms around to be infected when they went free in the first place when it raged? Because it's not airborne. So it can't be that way. That is why I would like to know whether the rapporteur has an idea of the risk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030211928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030211930	No, I don't know God, and I don't want that either. I'm a politician. That's why we ask experts. So it's not me and my gut who decide what the risk is. I have to listen to the authorities we have, and I would just advise the bourgeois parties to do so. I think it is a wildly lenient approach to our public health because there is a special veneration for a profession. I just have to say that I have no interest in killing mink production in Denmark in any way, but I just have to say that the price can also be too high to keep life in a particular profession. The way I sense it in the bourgeois now, the price can't actually be too high. They are willing to gamble with public health, and the bill must be so big. Then it may well be that you are from bourgeois parties who do not normally think that we should send state aid and everything after something, but precisely here, I think that love has blinded the bourgeois parties, both for the risk of public health, but also for the expense that we risk passing on to taxpayers.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030212037	Mrs. Lise Bech.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030212039	There was one good thing about what the rapporteur said, and that is that you are not trying to kill the mink industry. But it is not true that we do not care, because we also say that public health is the most important thing. What is the problem here is that there is no conclusion that what you are doing now is right. Dansk Veterinær Konsortium says so, which is constantly referred to.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030212109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030212111	I was about to say that you can also say amen and then not believe in God. Again, what I believe and guess is not very relevant, but we must, of course, rely on what the authorities, our experts in the field, say to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030212133	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030212137	Yes, thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I heard some positive behaviors, and the Radical Left has lived in good co-existence with the housekeepers for many years, and many of them agreed on mink breeding, so that is quite understandable. I am thinking of something in relation to these positive tactics: if we thought that the Radical Left had been in government and perhaps had also been in the post of Minister for Food, would we not have secured during this period that has passed, from putting the strategy of the 7.8-kilometre zones around the farms, to testing something in those areas to find out whether the theory on which this strategy is based now holds, that is to say whether it is true that the animals on farms within that radius are being infected? Or do you have to go further to make sure of yourself, or could you just take a shorter distance? Would it not have been the case to be a radical minister of food?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030212242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030212244	I must be honest with you: I do not really fully understand that question. I understand that you have taken the 20 cases of infection that were in North Jutland, and then you have seen what the radius is; where is the longest time between a herd that has been infected to the next? And that is where the number 7.8 has been reached. It's not like you've found that radius, and then you've done some experiments within that radius. It is, as I understand it, the maximum distance, one might say, between an infected herd and another infected herd; that is how I understand it. But if we had just done better: No, honestly, I don't think so. I would really like to hope that we had been a little more like SF, i.e. hammering worries from the start, but I don't know. But one thing I'm pretty sure is frankly, the bourgeois people wouldn't have done better. 'Cause I haven't heard any bourgeois clapping in their little hands that we're starting to knock down the crews I've heard some whining. And now the pipe has suddenly got another sound, and it's still gone whining, but now it's in the form of accusations that you didn't do anything that I know God never
ParlaMint-DK_20201030212358	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030212400	Yeah, thanks for that. I am, of course, a little disappointed by the answer, because I think that this one with the 7.8 km is something that you have had some sort of attitude or opinion about at some point such a precautionary circle. But you could quickly see that it does not last. All of a sudden there was also infection in Holstebro and down in Jutland, and that's where they're holding up 7,8 km, not at all. So it doesn't turn out to hold at all there aren't any farms that are contagious; it's people that are contagious. That is also what Kåre Mølbak and others say: It is people who infect the minks. So what the question was about was that you have wasted a lot of time here, because you could have collected a lot of knowledge about whether it is the same as the theory says.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030212449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030212450	Ah, I do not think there is any logic in that argument there. The fact that infection occurs further away is, of course, because there are some other outbreaks of infection, so to speak. It is probably because there is another human being who has been inside Holstebro and infected mink, which has then infected further. But what we know is that when a mink herd in an area is infected, it will not be long before the surrounding herds are also infected. At any rate, there is a very high risk of infection. That's what we know, and that's why you take these precautions. And exactly why that happens, we don't know so well, but yes, it's not something that flies through the air or comes with a gull or jumps with a grasshopper, or whatever. It is probably because of people, because there is some movement there between people. But we can just see that once the infection is in a local area, it explodes, and then the other mink crews usually get on the infection list too, and that's what we're trying to make reservations about by having this zone.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030212540	Thank you. I understand that there are no more brief remarks in this round. That is why we now move on to Mr. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030212555	Thank you. There are two different questions in this question debate: whether the professional evidence and how to ensure that an entire industry does not close down. First of all to the professional evidence: it has to be said that there is a lot of professional evidence of the strategy that has been put in place right now. We know from the Statens Serum Institute that they are concerned that the virus may mutate in a way that may affect the effectiveness of future vaccines. This is extremely serious. We also know that the infection is spreading really fast among mink. We have seen this in other countries before, for example in the Netherlands. That was also why I was concerned early in the process because I had followed the process in the Netherlands, where developments were very, very serious. That is why I think that there is a lot of professional evidence for this. Then it is true that one can argue that the 7.8 km limit is such a bit arbitrary. It's obvious. It is, of course, a limit which could have been set elsewhere, but it is now the limit recommended by the authorities, and it is based on the experience of the first 20 farms where there were infected minks. That's why I think it makes good sense to use it. You have to set the limit somewhere. I've attached a lot of attention to the fact that sir... Erling Bonnesen said that one of the reasons we're acting as we are in this case is fear. It was meant to be a bad thing. I think that is actually a rather funny approach, because if I am to be quite honest, I have to say that yes, I fear a situation in which the virus mutates in a way that may affect the effectiveness of future vaccines. I fear a situation in which this spread of infection among mink herds contributes tremendously to the epidemic and where infectious reservoirs occur. That is a completely real fear and concern. I think that is something that must be acknowledged. I do not think that we should create unnecessary fear, but I also think that we should be able to say honestly what the consequences can be if we do not take the necessary political decisions and the consequences can be quite great. Then there is the second part of the question which is about how to ensure that an entire industry does not close. It is clear that we in the SF are in a completely different place, because for many years we have been opposed in principle to that production and still are away. I think it is now a good time to phase out this production, because we are in a situation which is extremely serious in terms of health, yet we must compensate the mink farmers, and we are at risk of getting into an economic situation which is very, very worrying if we end up putting new animals into the world, which then have to be put to death, and then we have to compensate the mink farmers again. This is very serious, and since we already thought that for animal welfare reasons we should not have mink production, it is obvious to do so now. One thing I think is a little special is that today, on the part of the bourgeois parties, we have been able to experience the approach that one should just take.It is not just that one wants to help the industry. I think this is entirely legitimate, and I also think that aid packages should be made in a serious situation, as has been done to others. But to insist that we absolutely have to have this production almost cost what it will cost regardless of whether the health situation is very serious, the animals are suffering wildly, or whether it can make sense in any financial way whatsoever in the future, then we must have a mink production • I think is a very, very interesting approach. I do not think that it is seen in so many places other than agriculture. Just to put it bluntly, I really hope that this will not be linked to the fact that some civil politicians are receiving financial support from mink farmers. I really hope not, because I think the situation is far too serious for just to say it as it is. I also think it has been unbelievable how to exaggerate the importance of this business for Denmark. In the media up to this debate, the figure of 6,000 directly employed in mink production has been repeated over and over again, but when I ask about it, it is 4.317 who are directly employed in it, and in fact only 2.644 of those who have Danish citizenship. This means, of course, that there are probably quite a few seasonal workers and temporary workers, for example, so it is not full-time employees that this is all about. I do not think there is any reason to inflate the importance of this profession for Denmark, because then it is no more crazy, and so we must also be able to make progressive decisions in this country. My speaking time is now running out, so I will read out our proposal for adoption. We have done this together with Enhedslisten, and it reads as follows: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that 18 countries in Europe have closed down mink production. The settlement is mainly anchored in animal ethical considerations. In the Netherlands, the phasing out of mink production has been brought forward from 2024 to March 2021 due to corona outbreaks on many mink farms. In Denmark, the number of infected mink herds is rapidly increasing and mink has been found to be able to infect people and vice versa. The Danish Parliament notes that the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities, in consultation on 28 October 2020, described the covid-19 infection in mink production as a threat to public health and a threat to society, and that the government prioritises public health above all else. According to Statistics Denmark • Facts about the mink industry in Denmark • from October 2020 mink production has made losses from 2016 to 2019. With auction prices of DKK 150. per minkskin in 2020 seems to continue the deficits. Based on animal ethical considerations, public health considerations and the loss-making mink production, the government is required to draw up a plan for the dismantling of mink production in Denmark. V 8 (reprinted) paragraph ahead of mink production].
ParlaMint-DK_20201030213202	This is now part of the further debate. Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030213215	Thank you. Well, the rapporteur is still taking up the idea of simply closing down and pointing out that there is plenty of basis for it. There isn't. After all, even the Minister has replied that there is a lot that we do not know, and one can see that the whole process has shown that there is a lot that the government does not know. After all, there are a number of experts who have said: be careful not to overreact to the information that has been provided. So there is no basis for that when the SF's rapporteur goes out and almost paints a picture that it is an old Chernobyl nuclear power plant that has blown up and that you really have to go into cover. It's not. So, there are four people all over Denmark outside the mink sector who are infected with mink-covid, and then you blow this up to the mink sector being a problem for the rest of society. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030213318	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030213321	I have to refer to an article from the Engineer of 28 October, which says: "It is now the majority of examined corona samples from citizens of northern Jutland municipalities with many infected minks, which contain the potentially problematic mink variant of coronavirus. And it's the State Serum Institute that's gonna report this to the Engineer. So this affects the surrounding society, and it affects the spread of infection in Denmark, and when the rapporteur presents it as if SF wants to dismantle production solely as a consequence of health, then it is not right either. We have always advocated the dismantling of production on the basis of animal ethical considerations. That is the basic reason why we want to phase out the industry altogether. We will then take a number of initiatives, including: that new animals should not be brought into the world after the next furning season because of the current health situation, and yet we believe that the industry should be dismantled. After all, these are two different things, and they come in continuation of each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030213423	Sir. Erling Bonnesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030213425	But when it is that there are also experts who say that there is no solid basis for it, does it make no impression at all? I understand that SF will do everything possible to remove mink and fur production, and we have a vertical disagreement with that. But isn't it wrong when it's that SF, we can say, blows this up when there are also experts who say that don't use that to blow it up completely? Because that's what the SF actually does. Why is it that you do it? Why do you have to play on the fear of this? Why?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030213500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030213502	We fear a situation in which the virus mutates in a way that may affect the effectiveness of future vaccines, and that is also what the SSI has been concerned about. And I have been completely open, even the last time I was asked, that it is not certain that this is happening; it is not. It may happen, and it may also be that it does not, and I really hope it does not. If nothing else, we must take decisions on the basis of what we know, and we know that there is a risk, and that is not a risk we are willing to take.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030213526	Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030213532	Well done and congratulations. I have to admit that I do not in any way agree with Mr Tugendhat. Carl Valentin in his political positions etc. in this area, but it has to be said that the rapporteur has not concealed the desire to slaughter this industry, to put an end to it, just as the rest of the parliamentary basis of the government wants. The parliamentary basis for the government is, of course, the basis for the government's existence, which is why I think it is, in fact, a strategically good cut-off that has been made here to get its policy through. In a month's time, if the government's slaughter of mink farms continues, there will be no more minks in Denmark, and production will be over. So it has been well done, but I would really like to ask the rapporteur: are there any other areas, i.e. agricultural areas, which we would like to stop production in Denmark now that it seems that we have largely succeeded in doing so with regard to the minks?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030213628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030213630	Yes, for example, SF has worked very hard to dismantle fox breeding. It was back in 2009, there was a debate on it, and in fact we still have a single fox farm in Denmark, in North Jutland, and it should close this year, and we very much welcome that. Because we also find it unethical to put foxes into tiny cages that show stereotyped behaviour when you do it and that do not benefit very much from it. So, yes, there are other animal welfare advances we would like to see, certainly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030213702	Thomas Danielsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030213704	Now I was thinking of real professional productions, on which we must say we live very much, and which have built a great deal of the wealth we have in Denmark. I have another question. Now, after five months of corona in mink and the challenges it creates, we are invited for the first time by the Left to real negotiations on the critical situation we are facing, and we are of course pleased about that, and it is with this in mind that we should like to save the fur industry, and the rapporteur has the opposite view. That is why I would like to hear the rapporteur's opinion: does the rapporteur himself believe that it makes sense to come to the negotiations if, in other words, he does not want what is the political agenda?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030213744	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030213746	I assume that the negotiations should be about the future of the mink industry, and we would, of course, like to take part in that because we have a position on the future of the mink industry. Then it is also the case that, regardless of where one wants to go ideologically and in principle, one can well enter into some negotiations and then conclude a compromise, and we know that there is no majority for the SF's position here in the Folketing. On the other hand, we firmly believe that we have something political to offer, including in relation to the handling of the infection situation. So, yes, we'd like to show up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030213820	Thank you. Then it's Lise Bech, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030213822	Thank you. I would just like to inform the rapporteur that the 6 000 employees mentioned in many places are both in the mink industry and in the follow-up industries. So that's a correct number. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur something. The rapporteur reads from the Engineer that there are 276 infected. Yeah, they're people working at the mink farms. In a parliamentary response the same day, we have been told that there are four infected in the whole of Denmark outside the mink industry. What do the rapporteur think we can do most about? Is it a parliamentary answer, or is it something that you read in a media? It's not always, they're too good to come with the full truth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030213912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030213914	Now this was information from the State Serum Institute that they had given to the Engineer. I have to say in relation to the 6 000, that it is true that it is including the accompanying industries, but that is not how it has been presented in the media. For example, I have been sitting on TV 2 News, where it has been said directly that it was the direct employees of mink production where it was 6,000. That is simply wrong and that is why I have asked about it and it is a figure that has been mentioned many times. It is also a figure as far back as the articles of 2013. So, even in relation to the accompanying industries, I doubt it a little, because the mink industry is a little different today than it was back in 2013.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030214000	Lise Bech, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030214002	The parliamentary answer to which I refer is also an answer from the SSI. So we absolutely must assume that we will have correct information sent to the Folketing. Or what does the rapporteur think?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030214018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030214020	Yeah, I guess we're definitely getting correct information. If nothing else, I think it is a little narrow that you focus exclusively on the group of people who are infected who are not working on mink farms. For the disease of people working at mink farms is also quite serious for themselves and for their families. And, of course, there is also the complete mutation risk when it is contagious from mink to mink. I think there are many things to be worried about in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030214047	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Carl Valentin, as there are no more brief remarks. And we move on to Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030214055	Thank you. It is the case that our rapporteur in this area, Mr President. Peder Hvelplund could not be present, and I will therefore make his views known. We in the Enhedslist believe that a phasing-out of mink production should be initiated, for three reasons in particular. As we have just discussed during the first query, there are major health challenges with mink production in Denmark, and there is a risk of mutations of coronavirus that can lead to resistance to future vaccine. In the words of the Minister for Food, it poses a threat to public health as well as a threat to society. This is an assessment we share in the Enhedslisten. In addition, there is a risk of developing multi-resistant bacteria, and it is quite a risk to run, regardless of the profession we are talking about. However, the second issue on which we are going to say a great deal more is the issue of animal welfare. Mink, unlike our other pets, is a predator. It lives in nature on very large territories, which strike over several square kilometers, typically along rivers with bogs. The mink is a so-called territorial and solitary animal, which means that in nature it travels alone and defends large territories. In nature, males have territories of 2.5-6.0 km 2 2 rivers and streams. Mink is adapted by nature to a semi-aquatic environment, and therefore they have swimming skin. Mink can dive down to 5-6 meters depth and swim up to 30-35 m underwater. In nature, their need to swim and hunt in water is well documented, and research suggests that holding from swimming and hunting results in the same stress level as if they were kept from receiving food. Mink breeding in Denmark means that mink is bred in small cages with wire mesh as a base and without the ability to swim, hunt, climb, jump between trees or in the whole roof exhibit natural behavior. The fact that minks are territorial and solitary predators makes it extremely problematic that they are locked up on mink farms in small wire cages of less than a third square metre. Mink is bred on large farms with tens of thousands of minks in cages in long rows close to each other. The cramped, unnatural conditions of the minks, who continue to have their territorial and solitary behaviour intact, stress the animals and cause them to show some form of compulsion, for example. bite your own fur, bite other mink in the cage and bite their own kids to death. In addition, there is also generally high puppy mortality, and the minks walk back and forth restlessly or are completely apathetic. Behavior does not occur in nature and must therefore be assumed to be evidence of misfortune. According to scientists, territorial behavior and aggression are a natural characteristic of a predator like the mink, and therefore it is not the temperament of animals that is wrong with, but the conditions under which they are housed. Mink thus has behavioral needs, which are being used against under cage conditions. In other words, it is not possible to set up commercial production so that the minks thrive. The last thing we will say about mink production is that it is a deficit business. In 2019, the industry had an average deficit per holding of 0,7 million. kr. In recent years there has been a decrease in the number of farms, the number of people employed and in prices and exports, and therefore a plan should be put in place for a controlled phasing-out of mink production in Denmark, similar to what we see in several other European countries where production has been phased out and banned. This will give mink growers and employees in the industry an opportunity to get out of the industry and provide a certainty that it is not a production that needs to be invested in. This will benefit public health, animal welfare and the economy. Furthermore, the Enhedslisten supports the proposal for adoption, which was read out by the SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030214515	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Per Larsen of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030214525	Thank you for that, President. In the Conservative People's Party we will stretch far to ensure a future mink production in Denmark. There has been a long tradition of mink breeding in Denmark. We have the world's best mink, which achieves the highest prices on the world market, and a production that brings a lot of currency home to our country, feeds a lot of people and in general creates activity in society and prosperity for all of us. So we should only be happy about that, and we must safeguard it, and we must ensure that we can continue to do so in the future. That is why, of course, we also want to say yes to meetings that we must be called upon to make some agreements on how we can have good, sustainable mink production in Denmark in the future. And when I say sustainable, it's because mink feeds mainly on waste of one kind or another........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ But there are now some huge challenges in relation to corona. There is a challenge in terms of compensation for mink farmers. And it's something like that that can help suffocate them, to put it a little clearly. Because we know that the banks are looking a lot at security and uncertainty, and it is clear that when we find ourselves in such a situation as this, where there has been a lot of uncertainty, they may well be tempted to close down some companies that would, in normal circumstances, have been able to move on. But, as I said, we want to be in a deal. In fact, I think we owe that, and I see no reason to invite anyone who has the stated objective in advance that they will have wiped out mink production in Denmark. It would almost be a waste of time. But we are happy to come to the parties who want to talk to us about how we can continue to have a good mink production in Denmark. There are a lot of questions coming up. In relation to all that free-testing stuff, I would say that is one of the reasons why you can keep having some breeding animals. How do we get around that? Where are they gonna be? How are we to ensure that the animals intended for breeding are not infected? How can you keep them isolated so that the risk of being infected with covid-19 is minimized? There are several different things. Of course, we would also like to discuss this with the 7.8 km • we think it is a little urgent and have some evidence in relation to it; is the theory now consistent with practice? So, can we see that they are all infected within that radius, or could we narrow it down so that we could avoid killing some healthy animals? What about fur? Can we get started furning the healthy animals rather than just destroying them? There are also some issues that I find interesting in relation to the way in which it is handled. I have been told something right here during the debate. Somebody's sitting there watching, writing that dead mink is being tipped off in concrete squares. It seems to me extremely inappropriate that they mink when you have killed them, so just stay lying where birds of prey and other animals in that way so maybe can spread the infection. However, some of the things that we attach a great deal of importance to, at least, are the issues of compensation. I have praised the Prime Minister for ensuring that the public employees of this country will not suffer financially during this crisis; I think that is great. But I also have to say that when one has such an infection among mink here, which means that there are animals to be killed and when those who are so unfortunate that their animals are infected, then only have to be compensated by 20%. I do not think that is right. That is to say, if we were to say that we as ordinary employees had to settle for 20%. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been presented to us by the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment. Well, can they sell skins in 2021? I'm sure they can't. Can they get to it by 2022, or are we going all the way to 2023 before production is up and running? This is an enormous uncertainty, and we should discuss this, in other words how we get it done, so that banks do not close down otherwise healthy companies. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030215022	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030215024	Thank you, rapporteur. I was not supposed to take the floor, but if the rapporteur actually raises his hand and says that he will go a long way, then I think there is reason to ask just how that should be understood. In connection with this debate on F 10, we have, I think, presented a balanced and proper proposal for adoption, which is about involving the parties in the Folketing in a discussion. I read it straight up again I can do that in time: the Danish Parliament instructs the government to convene all the parties of the Danish Parliament to discuss the possibilities for future mink production in Denmark. The Folketing supports future mink production, taking into account the recommendations of the health and veterinary authorities. I just want to know if this is a proposal for adoption that the Conservative People's Party can endorse. And if you can't agree to this proposal for adoption, when you say you're going to go a long way, I'd like to have a few words on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030215123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030215125	After all, we have our own proposal for adoption, and what I heard from the questioner had the greatest appeal against our text was that all the parties in the Folketing would not be convened. We have decided that there is no reason for this. When it comes to saving the mink industry and making sure that we have sustainable mink production in Denmark in the future, there is basically no reason to call the parties that have a declared goal that they will kill the mink industry as soon as possible and have them wiped out almost from the surface of the earth. That would certainly be a waste of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030215200	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030215202	Then I have to say that the statement about stretching may well be to speak too loudly. Because if you cannot even meet around a proposal for adoption, which is about supporting a future mink production in Denmark and sitting down and discussing it in a health crisis and involving the parties in the Folketing, I do not really think that you are going very far. Then I think it might be revealed that this is more about controversy and perhaps some points. I very much hope that the rapporteur will consider supporting that proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030215240	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030215242	Well, I would say that I perhaps think that the rapporteur's proposal for adoption is more about polemics. Because we will be happy if we are invited to a meeting where we will discuss constructively how to save the mink business. Then we'll be there with a fingertips, right away like that! We really, really want to be a part of that. We ourselves have plenty of proposals which we would like to share in discussing, and I hope that the government will be involved in this so that we can get these problems resolved properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030215310	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to Mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030215315	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. Mink crews around the country were slaughtered these days on orders from the government. The reason for this is fear of new coronasmite. The measures include not only sick mink herds, they also include healthy mink, which lies within a radius of 7.8 kilometres from a farm where infection has been detected. We're in the middle of a coronapandemic with an increasing number of infected people. That is why we must, of course, do everything we can to limit further contamination. However, we must have reason and base our actions on scientific evidence. The statement by the Minister for Food on the decision on the slaughter testifies to an extremely thin scientific basis for these drastic measures. Veterinarians working in this profession on a daily basis confirm the dubious scientific evidence. The government is aware of its criticism, but it has not affected the government's decision. How is it possible to kill healthy animals without clear scientific evidence that it will stop the spread of infection? It hits innocent mink farmers with healthy animals and has major consequences. Worst of all, however, the government's actions go beyond mink growers with infected mink. They only get 80% compensation. It's tough conditions to run a business under, and Minkavler Lasse Jensen from Asdal can sign on to that. His mink was found infected with corona back in September. After about a week of illness, the minks were healthy again and were back to normal. Yet they are now ordered to be slaughtered, after which his family is offered some 80% compensation. Lasse tells me that for him and his family it means, at worst, that they have to leave home and house. What is the reasonableness of that? Now we have heard today that there may be a solution for Lasse, and of course I hope so for him, but there are many others who are in this situation. Furthermore, with animal welfare activists in the back, parts of the left now want the Danish mink industry to be shut down completely. That's absurd. Danish mink breeding is world-class. They produce the world's best skins and are world champions in animal welfare. In addition, they contribute 5 billion. kr. annually in exports abroad. The government's tough-handed measures against the mink industry risk becoming the end of Danish mink production. This would mean loss of income, culture and life's work for minkkeepers, a profession which for generations has created value for the benefit of the whole of Denmark. I can't let that happen. Therefore, we in New Citizens demand that the government present an action plan to ensure the survival of the Danish mink industry. Our mink growers are a great economic gain for Denmark, they must be treated with decency and respect. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030215628	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030215640	Thank you. And thank you for the debate so far. It is clear, as has been shown here, that we are in the middle of a serious corona situation, and we are in a serious situation for the mink industry in Denmark, and therefore it makes sense, of course, that we have discussed here today how to ensure that the infection from sick, coronas infected mink to healthy mink and further into society is stopped. And, of course, it also makes sense to discuss the conditions for the mink industry in the future, even though it is difficult, as with all kinds of other industries, to assess the future when we do not know how the corona will develop in the future. It affects very many people's lives in Denmark and the future of many companies; there is the mink industry in a situation like many, many other industries, unfortunately. Mrs Ulla Tørnæs said in her speech that there had been little positive words to the mink growers. I will not agree with Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. I think that in this Chamber, at least by the government and also by the government party, there has been a clear statement of how important the mink industry is to Denmark and what it means in terms of jobs and earnings to the country. I think that is a recognition of the work that minkers and their families do for Denmark. And, like all sorts of other companies that have been affected by the corona situation, they have come into a situation where the corona has very, very sad consequences for mink growers. There is also a great deal of sympathy for this on the part of the government today, which is why I would like to say that I do not think it is right that a positive word has not been said to the mink farmers. This also applies to the desire to ensure the survival of the mink industry in the future. There can be no guarantees for this; no guarantees can be given for the continued operation of any company in the Corona situation, but we can have that hope, and we can have the starting point to work to support the industries and sectors as well as possible, and that is the government's approach to it. So we want from the government mink production in Denmark; but again it is public health that goes first. And that is also true in relation to the restrictions that have been made for all sorts of other industries. It is, of course, for reasons of public health that the Coronasmite should not spread. We may sometimes forget when we come down and discuss individual sectors or various elements of the very sad situation we find ourselves in, that this is the main issue and that it must be for all the parties of the Folketing, namely that we are doing everything we can to stop the coronasmit in Denmark and, to that extent, also outside its borders. Just to recapitulate the consequences of the corona, they are that so far we have had 44,000 infected in Denmark, of which there are currently 10,000 infected, and as people will probably know, many have had quite severe symptoms along the way. Many have had consequences that still affect their everyday life and life as a result of this very serious illness. And so far there are 719 dead people in Denmark, many of whom are elderly and weak citizens. We therefore have a responsibility, first and foremost, to ensure that the infection is reduced as much as possible and that, of course, we also have limited consequences for people, including, of course, that we have as few deaths as possible. It is in this light that the government's approach to the infection must also be seen when it spreads among mink, because it is a risk that it is spreading into society. It is 176 associated with the mink industry that has been infected so far, but we have also found that, independently of that group, we can see that the infection is spreading into society. So we have to take this as seriously as we possibly can, and that's what the government is doing. We will continue to have and throughout the process have had a dialogue with the industry on how to deal with this, and the industry is involved in what we can do now and here, and of course also in what we need to do for the future. The industry has made some offers that the government will of course look at and consider. I understand an industry that does not think that decisions are fast enough and that would rather have taken a decision tomorrow than the day after tomorrow, or rather yesterday than today, and I can only agree that we must of course create a basis for decisions on the future as quickly as possible, but it will also be with the involvement of the necessary authorities and their assessment of this matter. It is not true that this has not been discussed between the parties, it has been and the parties have also been informed of the situation. In any case, I have not received any specific requests from the Left, either in June, July, August or September on this matter. And it is clear that when we then took a decision to change the strategy here in October, yes, we reacted and thought that a different strategy and other plans should now be put in place. There we are still missing, as it stands now, a clear plan from the Left itself in relation to how this is to be dealt with, both now and in the future. It is precisely against this background that we are proposing, with the proposal for adoption, that the parties of the Folketing should be brought together to discuss the situation and the future of the mink in Denmark. And, of course, I do not understand why the Left or, for that matter, other bourgeois parties cannot vote in favour of such a decision, because it is an invitation for us to sit together and discuss the future. Then the discussion of the 7.8 km is still being pulled out. But there is nothing else to say about the strategy, that is to say, that you put the minks on the infected farms and minks on farms located in a radius of 7.8 km from the infected farms, that it is, of course, because we know from experience that when you discover that mink on a farm is infected, the infection is already entering the surrounding farms, and the experience gained from it so far is that 95% of them have been within a radius of 7.8 km. And that is the basis for the assessment that has been made on the 7.8 km. I have said this several times, and you can't keep saying that you haven't got an explanation for it, because this is what explains it. And I think you should take note of that. So says Mr. Peter Seier Christensen, that there are different vets who have different opinions about this, and it is true that there are, and there are a lot of people who have opinions about this and who are smart about a lot of elements in this. This is also true in other areas when we discuss restrictions on corona. I just have to say that I have certainly seen that the Danish Veterinarian Association, that is, the association of all vets, supports the strategy that has been put on this basis so that it should be clear. Then I'd like to go to sir. Carl Valentin, who has tabled a proposal for adoption, just thank you again for the SF's commitment to the whole issue here, but when the proposal for adoption states that, in a consultation on 28 October 2020, I should have described mink production as a threat to public health and as a threat to society, and I have also discussed this with Mr Valentin. Carl Valentin, of course, is not that way. I have said that the coronasmitten But of course I look forward to a good talk and good discussions about the future of mink production in Denmark. And I take the debate here as an indication that we must continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030220647	Thank you. Mr President, first of all, there is a brief comment from Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030220651	Thank you. After all, we can quickly agree that the industry is in a very, very serious situation. I have also said in the past that we in the Left, as we can hear from all the blue parties, are ready to come to a debate on this. But right here in the last round I would also like to keep a little firm that, based on the fact that it is four people in the whole of Denmark outside the mink sector, only four people are infected with mink-covid-19, so it is quite an exaggeration like drawing a picture that the mink sector should be the problem for society; it is not. The Minister himself has also said several times along the way that there is much we do not know. Yes, it is quite clear that there is no basis for this. So it is going a long way, Minister, to say that the mink sector should be the problem. And when this comes up for discussion now, it's not really us who started it. It was precisely some of the parties that want to remove mink production that took it up, and then we have followed it. But is the Minister ready to invite you to a debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030220756	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030220800	I think that goes without saying, and I also hope that Mr. Erling Bonnesen may agree that it is possible that millions of minks, each carrying coronasmite, present a potential risk of other minks being infected and that the infection can spread from mink to human beings. Well, I hope we can agree on that, otherwise I have to say again, as has been said several times here, that the Left does not take this threat seriously enough. I think this is irresponsible, and I think that action must be taken by the Left behind the words they say, namely that public health comes first. This is not done by saying that we should not do what is necessary to stop the infection.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030220858	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030220900	Of course we do, we say that public health is the most important thing and people come first, but we also look at the basis that is there or that is not there. Because that is something we can read through a study that has been carried out in North Jutland on a certain number of farms, and then you have multiplied it up etc. And there are also experts who say: Be careful not to overdo it and scale it up. We can also base some of the foundations on what some of the government's support parties say: it is fear that drives it like it. So I understand that the Minister says on several occasions that there is much we do not know about this. So there is good reason for us to be put in the negotiating room, but I have not yet heard the Minister mention anything other than discussions. Can there be negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030220938	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030220940	Well, the Social Democrats have put forward a proposal for adoption which I do not understand why the Left cannot vote in favour, because it says that the government is required to call for discussion of the future situation of mink production in Denmark. I have to say that I do not understand why the Left cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030221002	Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030221004	Thank you. I think it is important that, in the advanced process we are in now, we wipe the board clean of what has happened or perhaps the lack thereof, that is, what has not happened and then we welcome the fact that the Minister is now going to invite the Left to negotiations on this subject, because it is extremely urgent and urgent. If this slaughter continues at this rate, mink production is unfortunately over in Denmark, and it will be a shame and shame. Fortunately, I can hear the Minister at least saying that the Minister wants mink production in Denmark in the future. Since it is so urgent and urgent, is the Minister not prepared to say that those parties which do not have the same desire for mink production in Denmark simply do not have time to waste time in such discussions? Well, we gotta go now. We need to make some good agreements that will ensure the Danish mink industry in the future. It's urgent.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030221111	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030221113	As I said, the government is fully committed to discussing the future of the Danish mink industry with the Danish Parliament's parties. I do not think it makes sense in a people's government to start skipping some parties that even say, as I have heard here, that it may well happen that they do not have a majority in favour of winding up mink production in Denmark, but they would like to contribute their knowledge and competence to the creation of a sensible framework. So I don't see there's any reason to exclude anyone. And I have not heard from the Left, as I have said, until October, that there was a desire to negotiate anything or to meet about anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030221202	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030221204	With all due respect to the Minister, the Minister now makes it sound like we're welcome to come and have a cup of coffee. So, I assume that the Minister wants us to go to a negotiating table where we can use our majority to help the Minister save Danish mink production. That is why it is clear that we cannot waste time at a time when it is so urgent. The industry is so the minister will just make it clear: will he just drink a cup of coffee for courtesy reasons, or will the Minister make real negotiations that can save the industry?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030221244	Then we get an answer from the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030221246	Again, I would like to say that Mr. Thomas Danielsen can read the proposal for adoption: The Danish Parliament instructs the government to convene all parties of the Danish Parliament to discuss the possibilities for future mink production in Denmark. The Folketing supports future mink production, taking into account the recommendations of the health and veterinary authorities. It is, after all, the framework for the discussions. I still do not understand why, when you say you want to take part in these discussions, you cannot vote in favour of this proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030221314	Then it's Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030221318	I'd like to follow up on sir. Thomas Danielsen's question, because frankly, it sounds like we're not quite broadcasting on the same frequency. I have a feeling that the Minister is not going into this wholeheartedly. And I have to say that it is simply a doubt that has haunted me over the last few weeks, because I cannot understand why the Minister is not getting through and going so far into this, so that we ensure that there is mink growing in Denmark in the future too. So, in the first place, I would like to comment on it mostly and say that my doubts piss me off so much that I simply want to ask the Minister whether he is now sure that he wants mink growing in the future of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030221414	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030221416	Now I do not know whether Mrs Inger Nøjberg has been out during most of the debate and has not heard what has been said, both on my part and on the part of the Social Democrat rapporteur, in relation to the fact that the Social Democracy, the government, wants mink growing in Denmark. This has been said time and time again, and it has also been our approach in the dialogue we have had and have with the mink industry and, incidentally, will have another meeting on Monday. I do not understand why Mrs Inger Løjberg would so doubt it. It should only be because, for the sake of some hinterland, she will try to exhibit it as if the Social Democracy does not want minkavl in Denmark. I don't understand the doubt. We have said this time and again, and we act in relation to it in a dialogue with the mink industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030221510	Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030221512	The problem is that I'm not the only one who has this doubt. Why has the Minister not spent these weeks just opening the newspapers or, for example, opening the newspapers? By calling a minkkeeper and talking to him, have you been able to see how difficult these people are running their profession right now? Now we can hear that discussions will then be called for. It's not a negotiation, it's a discussion about what? Is it the 7.8-kilometre zone, is it the question of whether you can fur mink that is healthy and that is within this zone? What's in it? And why is it that we have to spend time on parties that absolutely do not want mink growing?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030221553	Then we need an answer from the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030221555	I have to say again that I do not think that Mrs Inger Løjberg has really followed what has happened if Mrs Inger Løjberg can sit here and then doubt whether anything has happened, whether anything has been done. Mrs Inger Løjberg is not aware of the fact that 600-700 people, plus growers themselves, are working around the country in relation to the slaughter of infected mink, that 4, 5, 6 agencies are in operation and that the police and the defence are in operation. We're doing everything we can to deal with this situation so that the infection doesn't spread.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030221630	Then it's Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030221632	Let me follow up here where Mrs. Inger Løjberg left off. I can reassure the Minister that I have been following this debate all afternoon and all evening, and it is quite clear to me that the parliamentary basis of the government does not want a mink industry to continue in Denmark. That is why I simply do not understand why the Minister attaches so much importance to discussing with parties that do not want mink production to continue in Denmark, how we can move forward. Then the Minister cannot just explain in such simple words why it is that the Minister wants the parties of the Folketing to waste time drinking coffee with someone who would exactly the opposite of what the Minister claims from the Parliament's platform that the government wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030221726	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030221728	As I have already said once before, I must take at face value when, for example, The SF's rapporteur here proposes to phase out mink production, but himself recognises that there is no majority in favour in the Danish Parliament that one would nevertheless like to contribute to the discussion on the mink production of the future. So, it happens many times that you do not agree on the starting point, but find compromises in a room, and that at least you contribute with the knowledge and the desires you have. I will not cut off any parties in the Folketing from that. Why would I do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030221807	Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030221809	Now it's really gonna be a tiny bit difficult. I have not heard SF from Parliament's platform during the long debate today make any suggestion as to how we are going to move forward in the situation we are at the moment. On the other hand, the Left has made several concrete proposals on how we can tackle the current situation, among other things. This is the question of why healthy animals should be killed just because they are within the 7.8 km zone. That was a concrete proposal. We also need to hear what the Minister wants to put on the table when discussing the future of the mink industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030221845	Thank you, Ulla Tørnæs. There was so much time. Now we get answers from the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030221852	After all, for obvious reasons, I have been here throughout the debate, and I must apologise for saying this, but I have not, either in today's debate or in the run-up to this debate, seen the Left's plan for dealing with what we are in the middle of, other than saying that there are some of the recommendations of the Danish Health Service that you do not want to follow when you do not want to knock down the mink on the basis of the recommendations that are being given. And there I have to ask the Left, even before we enter a room for discussion: what is the Left's plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030221925	Thank you. Then it's mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030221927	Thank you. I would have liked to see the parties of the Folketing called for a long time ago for a debate on how we could deal with this situation that has arisen, in that there are mink farms that have been infected. And one can then say that the government has thought that they would rather ride with it themselves, and now we see that we are a situation in which half of the country's mink has to be struck down. Then perhaps it is planned that the rest of us will be able to join something here at the back of it, because I see that after all there will be a meeting, that the government will invite us to a meeting. But what divides us is enough whether it should be discussions or whether it should be negotiations. Because in our proposal for adoption we are the more parties that have made it • we write that the Danish Parliament instructs the government to convene parties that want mink and fur production in the future, to negotiate to ensure the survival of the mink industry and to ensure that the industry can get up again.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030222031	Thank you. I'm gonna let the minister answer that right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030222033	Well, I'm just gonna take note of that, too, sir. Per Larsen, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, has not approached me in the past few weeks about wanting to have discussions or negotiations on the situation with mink. The government has informed us of the measures that have been taken along the way, but the fact that for a long time the Conservatives have wanted to discuss and negotiate is a new thing. I think so, sir. Per Larsen should be kind enough to admit it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030222113	Then it's mr. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030222115	Yes, but at least I look forward to having a meeting and then having some discussions, because we need that. And I think that this situation is so serious that we owe it to the growers who are involved, and we owe it to the whole industry to deal with this as wisely as it can be done at all. We look forward to meeting about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030222140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030222142	I acknowledge that, and I think that this is usually the case in the circle we are on food issues, we can find sensible solutions together. The only thing I have to stress, and I have done this time and again, is that our main aim is to ensure that the coronasmit does not spread out into society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030222210	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030222212	Thank you. To this debate about who should be invited to take such actions, I would just like to say that I think the point of wanting to exclude someone in advance in this way is quite absurd. If we now imagine that the situation was reversed and that there was a majority in the Danish Parliament who wanted to phase out the mink industry, then I think that the bourgeois parties would be happy to be invited into the negotiations, and even if we wanted to preserve the industry for everything in the world, then we might have some good input on how to phase it out in the best way possible, or how to compensate the mink growers or something like that. I really think it is a very good tradition for us here in the Folketing to listen to each other, across parties and despite major political differences. So, on the point made by the Minister while I was just outside, unfortunately, I would like to say that I fully acknowledge that we have not been so precise in the proposal for adoption and that, of course, it should be the infection of
ParlaMint-DK_20201030222316	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030222319	Well, thank you to the SF rapporteur for that. We are in complete agreement on that interpretation. As I said, we are going to discuss the mink production of the future in Denmark, and we are also going to discuss this from a point of view that we still have a coronasmitte, and that is why the mink industry has been brought into this unfortunate situation as it is, as other industries are, and there is a starting point for the discussion, too, that priority no. 1 must be that we ensure that we do everything we can to limit the coronasmit, including that from mink to humans.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030222401	There are no more questions for the Minister, so we thank you. Erling Bonnesen wanted the word for the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030222418	Thank you. It will then be a relatively short rounding, and it is also on behalf of the blue parties who have called for this question debate: the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance. It is clear to all of us that the mink and fur industry is in a very, very serious situation. It calls for action very soon if we are just to secure and save the mink and fur sector in the future, and that is also what we in the blue camp have said we will contribute to and also do, of course, taking account of the fact that we must act in good health, as we have all expressed. The government now has a centerpiece of responsibility in this matter. After all, the government itself has worked towards this situation, and that has been made clear in the debate that we have. We also hope that some meetings, negotiating meetings will be convened very soon, because this is not something that can be waited for weeks, as the fur season and so on. I'm standing close. After all, some of the things we want to say are also about those that have been mentioned in the debate, so I am not going to bring them all up again, but just mention them. such a thing as free testing, and there I understood the orientation today, that it is in North Jutland that you have started with it. It will be something to discuss how to get it much more widely quickly, so that as many as possible are covered by free testing and that you get a look at this 7.8-km zone and on this one with breeding material, so that you can get on with your production next year. We have also said in blue camp that we are looking at the recovery package, the package for the future, and, of course, we are also seeing to it that these compensations, which have been put in perspective for growers, are being paid out; there we have received some reports from growers that they have difficulty in establishing sufficiently effective contact with the authorities in order to calculate and pay compensation so that they can create the basis for moving forward. So these are some of the things that we have already entered into that we are going to put on the table, and then we are actually ready for negotiations. So on behalf of the blue parties: thank you for the debate. We are then waiting for an invitation for some negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030222653	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030222655	Thank you for today's debate. It has been very long and sometimes good, but not all the way through. I simply have to ask you something. Now, in this debate, I think I have seen that the Left has had a very
ParlaMint-DK_20201030222738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030222740	I have clearly indicated that we have the world's best minkskin in Denmark and that there is demand from all over the world and that everyone comes to the auctions. I do not know whether the SF's rapporteur has ever been out watching and seeing how it is going, but it is quite clear that there is a huge demand for Danish minkskin, because they are the world's best. We also have the best animal welfare in the world, and all the claims that animals are biting each other, etc., I can completely reject, because then you could not have the best animal welfare in the world. As far as aid is concerned, the rules are completely applied. Whether there is money and support or not within the rules that apply, I have no idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030222822	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030222823	I haven't accused anyone of breaking any rules either. I was simply interested in obtaining financial support from this industry, because I think it is interesting also to know what economic interests we have in here as politicians and about one of the reasons why there was so much thanks for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030222850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030222852	For the very reason that the SF's rapporteur has to go out in the discount trail, if you may say so, and start asking about it, just shows that the SF has run completely out of arguments here and now in the end. One can only point out that the SF rapporteur can simply look up the rules and accounts and do so, but when the rapporteur has not been able to find anything, it is enough because there is nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030222915	Then it's mr. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030222917	I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for a good debate here today in the Folketing. I do not want to restart the debate, but I just want to appeal to it, and I hope that this will happen, that the Left will consider and support the proposal for adoption that we have put forward, that we should have discussions on this, that we support Danish mink production and that, of course, we listen to recommendations from the health authorities. Specifically, we have heard a lot of views from the Left this evening: criticism of, among others. criteria of distance, criticism of compensation, criticism of the killing of sick mink and criticism of the killing of healthy mink. I have asked several times during this debate, and I also understand that the Minister has called for it: if there is a plan from the Left, are there any concrete ideas that we can have examined, or is it just something that we want to take forward here? At any rate, I would like to make it clear to the Left that my mailbox is open. So I just want to hear, is there going to be a plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030223020	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030223023	Well, I understand that the Social Democrats grope blindly after all kinds of input. Because when you are in the situation you are doing that you have brought yourself in, and you have come in unhelpful afterwards, you have hardly known how to deal with it, and you have changed the strategy that we have been through here in the debate, then I understand that you keep asking for the ideas of the Left for this. After all, we have said that we will be here; we just need to be invited to a negotiating meeting. And we look forward to it being so, too, we have experienced two things. After all, there was a brief technical meeting where we were told that it was not airborne, and then there was the orientation here just now, and now we are standing here. We will come and make a positive contribution to some negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030223107	Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030223108	To Mr. Erling Bonnesen I must say that I do not actually think it is fair to make a postulate that we grope blindly when I reach out and say that I am happy to listen to views from the Left and that I am happy to listen to a plan from the Left. The specific question I am asking is: can we get a plan from the Left or is it not coming? I do not think the Left will give a clear answer to that. Are we receiving a concrete plan from the Left with the views of the Left and with what they actually want to do differently? Are we getting that yes or no and when?
ParlaMint-DK_20201030223136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030223138	It almost sounds like social democracy has run completely out of ideas on how to move forward, and we in the Left should be happy to contribute that. We have just said that we must be invited to a negotiating meeting, so that we can come to a practical conclusion, if we may say so. And there's no room for any more controversy. So I take the rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party at his word. Now we are through the debate, now we put the controversy away, and then we look forward very soon to having an invitation from the government for a negotiating meeting, and then we take it there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030223208	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. There are no more brief comments. Then I'll see if anyone else wants to speak. That is not the case and the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed amendments will not take place until Tuesday, 3 November 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20201030223227	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 3 November 2020 at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
