ParlaMint-DK_20200430102021	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430102516	The first thing I want to say is that the points listed as No. 2 and 3 on the agenda, only with the agreement of the House, can be dealt with in this sitting. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430102535	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 64 by Jesper Petersen (S), Morten Østergaard (RV), Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF), Pernille Skipper (EL), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' In favour of voting 53 (S, RV, SF, EL, Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), against voting 43 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 64 is adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 63 by Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen (V), Søren Pape Poulsen (KF), Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB) and Alex Vanopslagh (LA) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430103139	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430103158	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430103651	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430103715	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 96 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430104248	Before we start the debate, I should like to point out that the Bureau has decided to change the way in which the debate is conducted. The change means that all speeches are taken out of the seats, both ministerial and rapporteur speeches and short remarks. In order to prepare the minutes, it is very important not to start talking until the red ring on the microphone lights up. As usual, you will see the remaining speaking time at the bottom right of the voting panel. The debate is open. Sir. Orla Hav.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430104446	Thank you, Madam President. The proposal we are considering today concerns the amendment of the Travel Guarantee Fund and the support and assistance that can be given to it in these coronatides. I think it has been an exemplary way in which the Folketing and the government have jointly sought to avert the worst damage to industry and social life by providing aid packages according to different criteria to different industries. One of the industries hard hit is the travel industry. When the borders are closed, you can't travel. When confidence in places you want to visit falls below zero, there is no desire to travel, and when the risk of your health is part of the cost, you hold back from travelling. The world has become less and less open, and that is exactly the opposite of the conditions on which the travel industry is based. We already see severe consequences for the industry in the broad sense: redundancies of employees and threatening bankruptcies. We have a great understanding of the uncertainty surrounding the travel industry. The first major aid package from society to the industry was based on the experience we have with the Travel Guarantee Fund, where the industry jointly secured its customers, the travellers, from losing money in bankruptcy and the collapse of the economy. The travel guarantee fund is based on principles of solidarity between industry actors and is largely managed by the industry itself. The Minister for Business and Industry formulated the help efforts of government and Parliament in this way: we lay asphalt while driving because time plays an important role. We have received many reactions in the way in which the first aid package was put together. For example: the principle of mutual solidarity has been seriously concerned, because, to put it bluntly, the very well-consolidated have been anxious that they would pay a bill for the less well-consolidated, who might even have additional risks built into their way of doing business. The Minister and the parties in the Enterprise Committee have listened to the concerns and are therefore presented with a set of thoroughly worked out new principles for continued aid opportunities. Two thirds are now an individual concern for companies, and that is a clear response to that criticism. On top of that, the Folketing has given support to several administrative forces so that the help packages' money can get out to work. We understand the uncertainty surrounding the travel industry because the Coronapandemic has basically called into question the principles on which the travel industry is based. We support the draft law and are, of course, prepared to take part in the committee work in the same constructive spirit as the draft law has been submitted to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430104752	Thank you. It does not appear that anyone has wanted short comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430104804	Thank you. The travel business is on its knees. The industry experienced a complete stop in turnover from one day to the next, and in the situation customers are entitled to have the money paid back within 14 days. However, the liquidity situation could risk closing even very healthy companies in a very short time, which is why all parties in the Folketing agreed on a package of aid in the form of a State guarantee for the Travel Guarantee Fund of 11⁄2 billion. kr. The intentions have certainly been the right ones: to hold hands under an extremely pressured industry with a special effort in addition to the general aid packages. Conversely, I have to say that the last few weeks have made it clear that the travel industry does not see the aid packages as a real helping hand, and I think we should take this seriously. Criticism has gone on collective liability, and many in the industry fear that they will have a bill far greater than the move their own customers have had on the scheme. I fully agree that the Travel Guarantee Fund has collective coverage if a travel agency goes bankrupt and leaves a bill greater than the company's guaranteed, so the principle is not unknown. In the course of the examination of Bill No. L 145, where we established and increased the guarantee of 11⁄2 billion. kr., was the announcement from the government on the question of that 100 per cent. individual liability would mean that some companies would have a debt that would be so large that the companies would break their necks and the bill would be distributed to the industry anyway. But I have to say that I am still impressed by the fact that so many people in the industry are warning against where we are at the moment. The draft law before us makes the obligation much more individual... exactly two thirds individual and one third collective... and it is certainly an improvement and a response to the criticisms that have been made. At the same time, however, I would recommend that the first period from 13 March to 13 April be looked at again. I understand that the legal obligation cannot be changed, because it would be legislation with retroactive effect which would put someone worse off than they had been promised, but we can reduce the effect by changing half the amount from a loan to a state subsidy. We already have a limit on the loan guarantee of 11⁄2 billion. kr., and I certainly do not have the imagination to imagine that travel activities will resume as if nothing had happened, on May 11th, so the guarantee and the amount will be challenged. That is why we still see a situation in which the economic framework needs to be changed. The government has said that the 11⁄2 billion. kr. is the maximum amount that the industry can pay back, and that is why it is the call from the Left that we listen to the criticism made by the industry. Therefore, at the meeting of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy later today, I would like to call for an expert consultation with the industry on Monday with a view to discussing what the situation is and whether there are opportunities for improvement. Changes in the notice, in relation to the Travel Guarantee Fund covering actual expenditure, were made, among other things. on the basis of a criticism of collective liability, so that the change is actually fair enough, but the change has given rise to some liquidity challenges, and I would therefore urge that we also clarify during the committee's work how the scheme can also ensure the vital liquidity here and now, namely that customers get their refunds from the Travel Guarantee Fund, and that the Travel Guarantee Fund then first collects the difference between it repaid the amount and the actual losses of each travel agency after a reasonable period and preferably on the other side of the turn of the year. This ensures the necessary liquidity in the short term and at the same time ensures that the change in relation to liability for actual losses and not for turnover is complied with. Isolatedly, this proposal is moving in the right direction, but there is a massive criticism from the industry that we should listen to, and I therefore hope that we can use the committee work in the coming week to get a quick service check on the aid package which apparently does not seem to meet the objective that we share, namely to keep our hands on a sector that is exposed, so that there is also a travel industry that is ready to be activated when the borders open and the Danes must again have the opportunity to take a holiday, also abroad. That is certainly the wish we have from the Left, and we will engage constructively in a dialogue with the industry and other parties in the Folketing to see if we can make adjustments that can meet some of the criticisms that have been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430105239	Thank you. And then it's sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430105244	Thank you, President. My rapporteur's speech will be somewhat in line with that of other rapporteurs before me, particularly the rapporteur of the Left, in relation to the situation we are currently experiencing in the Danish travel industry. It is obvious to everyone, in the view of the Danish People's Party at least, that the industry that is the hardest hit in Denmark is the tourism and experience industry, not least the Danish airlines and of course also the travel agencies, because these parts are inevitably linked across the board. After all, we have participated in the agreement that was made several weeks ago, where we had the first legal procedure here in the Folketing. And the clear impression of the Danish People's Party was that it was an agreement that was balanced in relation to what we had been presented with. And we just have to note that the evaluation and reception that the draft law has had has not, of course, had the mild glasses on in order to outline the challenges experienced in the industry, both individually and collectively for everyone in the industry. Then the effort has been made to make some changes, and that is also quite appropriate. The legislative proposals that have been implemented since the Corona crisis started at home have, of course, been subject to great uncertainties, and they have also been implemented very, very quickly, and this was also necessary. And the Folketing also agreed that it should be a quick process, but that at the same time we then had a joint obligation to go in and make an evaluation where the laws seem inappropriate. And there we have to say in relation to the Travel Guarantee Fund, with the commitments that are, that then we have not chosen the right model. I have noted that in the discussion about whether it should be collective or individual, the industry's very clear recommendations are that it should be an individual model. And the Danish People's Party would very much like to help ensure that we get that change. This is the hybrid model for which the Minister of Business is the banner leader, and perhaps it is better than the one we have at the moment. But the question is whether we should not go further in relation to the individual part. Because it is not reasonable for some to end up having to pay for both large amounts and perhaps having to repay 20 million. kr., although they have only received 10 million. kr. paid out. The examples also show some who have not been paid out, yet they have to pay for the refunds of other competitors. This is a strange way of dealing with it, and I think the government must also take note of that, so that the Folketing is in any case in serious doubt about it. Is this the right medicine that we are currently offering? It is also suggested from the industry that you should look at this with the payback time. After all, we made an agreement that repayment of the part which is then a loan and which is put down in the Travel Guarantee Fund should take place over the six years. There, the Danish People's Party would very much like to take part in looking at whether you could make a model that is more long-term, and we would also like to take part in looking at a model where it is not only money that is borrowed but also where it involves a grant, as the Left also mentioned. We would recommend that the Minister proceed with this. Then there is one thing that has been very much advanced, and that is in relation to something that we have asked for in the negotiations or the dialogue meetings we have had. I have the most impression that we have had dialogue meetings and not so much debate. But in relation to the interrupted journeys, we still have a gap away, and we still have a challenge with them. For those companies that have sold the journeys that have been interrupted, there is, after all, a need to repay for the number of days when the journey is interrupted, even before the dates that we outline, because the journeys had often started before giving different colors to destinations in relation to risk assessment. So I would also recommend that we get the Minister on board: that we get the interrupted journeys as part of a change from the Guarantee Fund and this bill which is currently under discussion here in the Folketing. So all in all, it is good that we are now having the debate here in the Folketing, it is good that the government has tabled the bill. We would like to acknowledge that, but the bill is not good enough. So we have to ask that we have a thorough debate with the Minister and that we also include some of the aspects that I have outlined here on behalf of the Danish People's Party and which must be some of the elements that need to be included in improving the overall agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430105754	Thank you. We move on to Mrs Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430105807	Thank you. I really understand that you're worried about the travel business. The reality and the future that you are looking into now look completely different than when we entered 2020, and I think everyone has a great understanding of the uncertainty that Covid-19 has also put this industry in. I also take the debate on and from the industry over the last few days as an expression of the enormous uncertainty that has now arisen. After all, the draft law we have before us concerns the Travel Guarantee Fund and thus the possibility for customers to get back the money from the journey which, unfortunately, they have not been able to get anyway. And the extraordinary situation that you are faced with, both customers and the travel industry, is completely new. Therefore, we previously elected here in the Folketing to vote in favour of an extension or scheme under the Travel Guarantee Fund in connection with the outbreak of covid-19. It has also been adapted along the way, and now we look into a new period when we want to adapt it again. And we do that because we can hear the criticism from the industry. For me, there are at least two aspects that we need to take on board when we look at this. That is to say, whether it's okay that a smaller travel provider hangs on completely incalculable debts, and thus de facto closes because they happened to have many travels sold during a certain period when a completely unpredictable event makes them have to repay them. I do not think so, because nobody has anything good to do with the fact that they are going bankrupt and that the industry is, in this way, all on the bill anyway. At the same time, one might also ask: is it fair that a travel provider is hanging on a huge bill because others in the same industry have ended up in this situation? No, it isn't, because this travel provider isn't supposed to be hanging on a huge load anyway. These are two rather complex considerations, I think. I'm glad that in this bill we seem to be pulling in a direction where it becomes much more individual. I can only support this and we are also looking forward to the other discussions. I will certainly take a very positive view of the proposal from the Left to have an increased dialogue with the industry, although I think that we are already talking to them very much. And we are doing so because we understand that this is a completely extraordinary situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430110044	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430110054	Thank you. We've made a lot of help packages. One of these is about the Travel Guarantee Fund. The deal has given lots of inquiries in my mailbox. I wouldn't lie if I said hundreds. After the first agreement had been concluded, many questions were put to the travel service providers. Of course, they were concerned about their future. The Danish travel agencies report that at present 175,000 to 200,000 Danes have had their journeys cancelled. Some of these e-mail requests dealt with the question of why the loan is being repaid collectively, and other questions were as to why it is an individual repayment of the loan. There have been a great many requests, and that is why we are looking again at the agreement. The current agreement is about to be extended until 10 May. That date's about to come. I am also thinking that we should stretch it further in time, because I do not think that the aviation industry and travel companies will be able to open up again on 10 May. I believe that travel providers need clarity and certainty. Today we are dealing with some significant changes in the refund part, so that two thirds become individual repayment and one third become a collective repayment. In this way we are trying to meet some of the many wishes that have come from various travel providers. The question is just now, as the Left points out, whether this is the right thing to do. I have received e-mails which report that several travel service providers are currently planning to withdraw from the Travel Guarantee Fund. I'm worried about that. I am also concerned if we subsequently see bankruptcies, because who will be liable for these bankruptcies? That is one of the points I should like to make clear in the further consideration of the proposal. I would also like to appeal to the Minister to work to change this repayment period. The current agreement states that it is six years. This means that travel providers will have to charge a much higher amount for each journey. This, if nothing else, will limit the development potential of the industry. The optimum in my optics will be at least a refund of 12 years. I have also been informed that such a loan will be more expensive. I need to know what more expensive is. I would like to know. I hope the Minister is willing to look at this afterwards and at whether it is even an option. We are in the SF ready for further treatment. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430110400	Thank you. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten. Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430110410	Thank you. The travel industry and tourism are under heavy pressure. I think it is important to emphasise that with this proposal we are not in the end. I do not think we can see our extension of the function of the Travel Guarantee Fund as a real help package for the industry. Honestly, I don't think we can do that. We still need that aid package. Clearly, with the health crisis we are facing, it is not only the industry that is hit first and that is hit hardest. It will probably also be the industry that will be affected in the longest time. We need to deal with this with initiatives aimed at the industry. However, even if we manage to make good efforts and a genuine aid package, we will not avoid the fact that more people will be fired and lose their jobs. I am sorry to say that, but that is the hard reality. We must not dwell on this; on the contrary, we must act. And here it is absolutely crucial that, in addition to the measures and the aid package, we also make an effort in relation to targeted continuing training and retraining. There are many good employees who have very good qualifications, so how can we get them into play? And we must ensure that new jobs are created. Here we have presented a crisis resolution plan so that the new jobs must be green jobs and help ensure the green transition. Summing up, of course, we support the bill. Several small companies have also got caught up in dealing with bankruptcies, and we have to solve this problem and make loans like this. It is good that the changes are more likely to solve this problem and prevent bankruptcy as far as possible. However, it cannot stand alone and I look forward to the further reading of the committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430110607	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mona Juul, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430110618	Thank you for the floor. These are tough times right now. These are some pretty intense cases we have in this Chamber. When the planes stop and when the airports are empty and the borders are closed, then it goes without saying that the travel industry is also suffering. If you have no activity and no income, it goes downhill very quickly. Of course, for the travel industry, this is being accelerated, because at the same time you have to refund planned travel. It is hotels and aircraft which have already been settled and which, of course, are pushing liquidity. After all, it is good that we have made aid packages that can provide a subsidy for wages and fixed costs and that we have added 1.5 billion. kr. extra for the Travel Guarantee Fund. But neither one nor the other actually fits very well with the travel industry, which, of course, bears many of its costs, for example. marketing, long before the travels are carried out, that is, long before money comes into the box. And with the fund's resources, we just cover the customers' travels, that is, the journeys that have been cancelled. Unfortunately, the challenges of the Travel Guarantee Fund are now being strengthened with full force. The collective liability is a financial bailout for some, but it also ends up becoming an economic noose around the neck for others with a ministerial fixed and too short payback, as was mentioned, but for which there are also reasons. And with doubt about the scope of the fund's board of directors, yes, the aid leaves much to be desired. It is to be feared that those most affected will hit the next one, then hit the next one, and so on. Like the other rapporteurs, I have talked to a great many people in the travel industry, and I have to say that whatever we do in connection with the Travel Guarantee Fund, it seems to be going wrong. Today, we need to ensure extension and that this includes less collective liability. That's good. Unfortunately, this also presents some new challenges. At the same time, we must note that the fact that a month has almost already been spent does not exactly wake up the jubilments it has not done so for the time being, and that does not make it easier to run a business. At the same time, I must confess that I have not had such different wishes before as I have from the travel industry. This makes it extra difficult to navigate when there are clearly so many special interests; so many different needs. The Conservative People's Party will, of course, vote in favour of L 181 and thank you for the good cooperation within the rapporteur's group. At the same time, however, I would like to call on the Minister to look at new solutions that can help to keep a real hand under the industry. For the challenge of general aid packages is that they help in general. The funds should be more targeted and managed more precisely. For example, it will. Hopefully, the travel industry will benefit more. So let's spend the time digging deeper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430110922	Thank you. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430110932	Those who benefit from a collective solution of course think it is good. Well, let's just put the prune on the counter and say that's what this is about. And it is also very natural that, as a business owner, you try to protect your business and do what is best for your own business... anything else would be unnatural. It is then an premise that we must guide ourselves through in here and we must try to find the best possible solution so that we make as many people as possible satisfied and as few as possible dissatisfied. But you should not put a tow in your eyes either: no matter what solution you come up with, there will be people who will be dissatisfied with this because we are in a bad situation. We are in a crisis and, in a crisis, some are being hit, and I think it is an important tale, that is to say you do not come and make an idea that no one is being hit in a historic crisis, because that will be the case and the travel industry has zero revenue. The light in the tunnel may be that if we look at previous crises, which may have a little connection with this, and if we look at what the IMF says, they actually say that when we look at the fourth quarter, or when we look at 2021, we have growth back in the world community. That is the IMF's assessment of it. And I believe that people out there aren't done traveling. I believe that people have a desire and a desire to return to life, and life is also to travel. If we can now make some improvements to the original agreement that was made, we are absolutely in favour of it in the New Citizens' Party, and we are happy to accept that constructively. For us too, it has just been extremely important that we do not make a scheme that will become some golden calf, from which there are people who can withdraw funds from which they are actually not entitled. Because it's gonna be someone else in the business who's gonna pay for it. It's also been an important point when you've had to do these things. However, new citizens are entering into the forthcoming negotiations positively and constructively, and we dare to hope that we can land something in which we can all see ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430111142	Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430111155	Thank you for the floor. You can't say much about the time that will come after the covid-19 epidemic. But there is one thing I dare to say, and that is that the experience economy will be one of the economic sectors that gets under way at the end, to put it bluntly. I believe that it needs to be analysed in terms of safety because of the problems of the super-spreading of infection, and I believe that the safety measures need to be thoroughly analysed, and this will take a long time, no matter how much effort is being made. We therefore hope, of course, that the government will give it a very high priority to carry out an overall analysis of the experience economy and the conditions under which the experience economy is governed. It means regionally very much around Denmark, and it is a major economic sector in this country. For the experience economy, especially with these super events, as there are a lot of festivals, big sports events, etc. When we change the rules of the Travel Guarantee Fund, it is a rather small corner of the question of the experience economy that we are addressing. This does not mean that it is not essential, so of course we support it, but we would also just like to emphasise that the whole question of the experience economy is very, very critical to look at. After all, it is also the experience economy that has brought the epidemic to Europe in many ways, and we should not be blind to that, and it is very important to get a look at all aspects of this issue. But like I said, we support the bill. And, of course, we hope, as several other parties have said, that we can have a very thorough, extra thorough committee procedure so that we can try to work as hard as we can now with the objections that have been raised. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430111429	Thank you. Minister of Business, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430111435	There is no doubt that the Danish travel industry is in deep, deep crisis as a result of corona. The travel industry is extraordinarily hard hit. This is due to the fact that the Corona virus has led the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to refrain from traveling first to China and northern Italy and since not all necessary travels to the rest of the world until 13 April 2020. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs subsequently extended its travel advice until 10 May. On 26 March 2020, therefore, we decided here in a unanimous Parliament to extend the scope of the Travel Guarantee Fund in exceptional situations such as the one we are in. The law extended the purpose of the Travel Guarantee Fund so that, in the exceptional situation resulting from the covid-19, it would also be able to secure the customer's refund claims for travel purchased from a travel provider. According to the law, travel companies are obliged to repay customers for those journeys which cannot be carried out. The aim of the law was therefore to ensure that consumers get back the money to which they have a right under the law, while at the same time supporting the continued operation of the Danish travel service providers and thus avoiding a surge of bankruptcy in the Danish travel industry. At the same time, a State guarantee of 1.5 billion was granted. kr. to the Travel Guarantee Fund for the purpose of these allowances. The repayment of the State guarantee shall be borne by the industry collectively for the period until 13 April 2020. Based on the experience of the existing scheme and good dialogue with the whole circle of rapporteurs from all parties of the Folketing, the government wants to adjust the model for the collective repayment of the industry. The Government proposes that in future, the repayment model should reflect more closely the individual operator's features on the scheme. Specifically, a model is proposed whereby the repayment requirement is divided into an individual part, which is two thirds respectively, and a collective part, which is one third. The collective part is collected from the industry on the basis of turnover and the State guarantee of 1.5 billion. kr. is unchanged. Under the applicable law, the current Minister for Economic Affairs may decide whether to activate the fund fund and lay down rules on the duration of the coverage. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs' travel advice has been extended until 10 May 2020 until and including 10 May 2020, and it is on this basis that the government considers that there is a need to extend the extended coverage of the travel guarantee scheme until and including the same time, i.e. 10 May 2020. The amended repayment model with an individual and a collective part resulting from this bill will be put into effect by means of a notice for travel as from 14 April 2020. The government, of course, wants as early an entry into force as a parliamentary procedure allows. In order to move on to some of the points that the rapporteur has put forward, I think it is a good idea for some of the measures that are being proposed in this Chamber for further committee work. The rapporteur of the Left suggests that it might be a good idea to hold an expert meeting with the industry. I think that many share the experience with the mailbox, which may not have reached its breaking point but there are at least many mails. And, as Mrs Juul said, it is rare to have seen such different wishes in the same matter. And it also means that this is an extremely difficult situation for us in the Folketing, with which I only have the experience of sharing the common wish that we can save as much of our travel industry as it is permissible to do, with out on the other side of the corona crisis. A meeting of experts will be a good thing and a good step to clarify the many points of view in the matter and, on that basis, to consider what the further actions can be. As I have said, I believe that today's draft law offers an adjustment that meets both sides of the best known concerns about the desire for a collective and individual repayment model by precisely combining the two models into the same repayment model for the extended period that we are proposing to make here. Then there are several rapporteurs who are asking why we are not just extending the term of the loan to the industry so that they do not have to pay the loan back over the six years. I think so, among other things. Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen from the SF asked about it. The government's ability to extend the duration is immediately very limited. The European Commission has set a firm framework for the conditions under which State aid can be granted in connection with the covid-19, and here is one of the conditions for the repayment of any loan within six years. In connection with the amendment of the draft law, we are, of course, also in dialogue with the European Commission in relation to state aid authorisation, and the government is obviously concerned with providing the best conditions for the repayment of the State guarantee, and therefore what has been brought forward here will also be part of our dialogue with the European Commission. Then there are a great many wise things being said, and one of the things that has been brought out is the question of whether you can strengthen liquidity while making the arrangements as right as it is now possible in this very complex industry track, where there are many different considerations. I think it was sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, who asked if the administration of the schemes could strengthen liquidity. The fact that the consumer has access to the Travel Guarantee Fund as a payout point in the first place is also a way to strengthen the liquidity of companies, but we are also happy to look into the track in further committee work, because it is my impression that the Board of the Travel Guarantee Fund has the opportunity to decide on the time horizon in this refund which is being made to the Travel Guarantee Fund in the first place. We'll look into that. Then I'll share with you, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen's statement about "and it should just be a little hope, a little light to light up in this very, very difficult case and in this very, very dark situation for the Danish economy and not least for the Danish experience economy that people are not finished travelling. People are going to travel again when the opportunity is there, when the borders open again, and when the planes get the engines going and the airports teeming with people. What's so damn hard for all of us is that we don't know when it's gonna happen. We all share, I think, the desire that we could give that certainty to the travel industry. We cannot, and that is why we need to make the right tools now, so we have a travel industry on the other side of the corona crisis. After all, that was the consideration behind making the collective repayment model in the first place. In fact, that was what was wanted: that with a collective repayment model one could have so much of the travel industry standing on one's feet if one has to use that expression after the corona crisis, because one's hands were tied to one another. I think that in the debate we owe it to each other to mention other people too, but I also feel the opportunity to repeat that the collective repayment model would be the repayment model that would apply if it were bankruptcies that had been here instead. It is the current repayment model of the Travel Guarantee Fund, which is why it was not caught out of thin air that the new option with the State-guaranteed loan was chosen to use a collective repayment model. I even believe that it has been proposed among some of the different proposals that have been made in this context. But now we have the opportunity to create a combined collective and individual model. I hope we can succeed in that. I would just like to vote in favour of Mrs Juul's praise to the rapporteur in this context. I do not know whether, when you sit and come out there, you get the impression that we meet in this Chamber and then we find out what we think about it. Fortunately, we have a really good and ongoing dialogue with each other, where we try to find the right solutions. That is why I would just like to conclude by saying to those from the travel industry who keep in mind that you can be quite confident that you have a Parliament and a government that together has one wish and one purpose in this matter. And it is to take care of our travel industry, take care of our experience economy, and we are trying to find the model that is best suited to avoid a wave of bankruptcy and get the most of the travel industry out on the other side. We have different views on how to do this, and I would just like to finish by saying again that I am very much at the disposal of the committee, even in relation to an expert meeting, if that is what is decided as a committee. But first of all, thank you for the comments on the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430112519	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430112528	Thanks for the words. The Minister for Business and the Prime Minister has both said that the government will do anything to ensure that healthy companies also get through the corona crisis and are ready to run their business on the other side. When we listen to the travel industry, it is not exactly the impression that one gets that they think: Wow, how helpful the Folketing and the government are. These are quite violent accusations and threats. Now there are eight travel agencies, I think, who are threatening to leave the Travel Guarantee Fund, which risks leaving the rest of the industry in an even worse situation. I would therefore just like to ask the Minister for Industry whether he is willing to look at what I myself proposed, namely to convert some of the loans into a state subsidy in order to ensure a greater chance of the industry getting through the situation with care.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430112630	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430112637	It is quite true that we, as a government, are ready for this and I only have the impression that we share the approach with the Danish Parliament to do what is necessary to fit the Danish economy in the best possible way in the current situation. The question is then about doing the right thing, as well as doing the right thing, and this has proved difficult in the matter we are dealing with here. I think it should be borne in mind that those involved in the travel industry are, after all, private companies, just as many other private companies in this country, which is why they also have access to the pay compensation scheme or, if you are a small company, to apply for the self-employment scheme or to apply for the flat-rate costs. In addition to the opportunities that apply to the entire Danish business community, we have chosen a model here where an extraordinary loan can be granted. And I think that in the first place is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430112736	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430112741	At first we agreed that this would be the helping hand that could carry the travel industry on. But I just think that we have to deal with the reality that exists. And there is a massive concern in the travel industry about whether the models that apply are strong enough. And that is why I just ask: what has the Minister done with consideration when those in charge of half the industry threaten to withdraw from the Travel Guarantee Fund? That calls for action. Surely we cannot find ourselves in a situation where this de facto means that the Travel Guarantee Fund is falling apart.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430112819	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430112822	But that is what I think would be incredibly unfortunate, because it is a fund that is also there for the industry and in which the industry plays a very, very important role itself. But I think it is right from here to take the dialogue, to have an expert meeting, to have the rapporteur's circle meet and then to discuss further whether there are other options in terms of looking down the further track. Initially, the government proposes the extension and a combined collective and individual repayment model as the right way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430112906	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430112912	Thank you. I'd like to sign for the Minister's speech. However, I would like to say that there were some things that the Minister did not mention, and we must always bear in mind what is not being said. There wasn't much about the interrupted travels. Basically, this whole case is about liquidity. That is what is at stake here, and so all the interested parties. One of the places where there is a problem with liquidity is where there are interrupted journeys which cannot be covered by the Travel Guarantee Fund, because travel had begun before the initiatives we launched. There is, of course, an obligation to pay back that number of days. If you are on a 10 day journey and the journey is interrupted after 5 days and some of the days lie before our change of law, then there is an obligation to pay back for the part of the journey that is interrupted. It is not covered by any coverage and it poses a liquidity problem for which travel agencies are waiting to find a solution. So I would like the Minister to reflect on the interrupted journeys. And then I have two more questions, but I'll have to wait for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430113022	Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430113027	I would like to start by saying that we should not pay attention to everything that was not said, because there are very many things that are not said. There are certain limitations within 15 minutes of speaking time. But the question of interrupted journeys is really good and serious. In connection with the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs advised all non-necessary travels to the rest of the world from 13 March to 13 April, the government was at the same time out encouraging everyone on holiday abroad to return home in good order. In this it was that Danes on holiday abroad as a starting point should travel home to Denmark with the planned flight. Some travel providers have had to rebook travellers on holiday for alternative flights back to Denmark and these costs are borne by the travel providers or airline and remain excluded from the adjusted scheme, so that is quite right. With the proposal, the government has focused on helping the travel industry where the vast majority of the travel industry's costs are due to covid-19. And it is in connection with the cancelled and cancelled package travel.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430113131	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430113136	Thank you. However, it is also a clear recognition that we have a backlog in relation to the interrupted journeys. It is fine for the government to go out and say that it recommends that people do this and that in good order and come home now etc. But there are just some bills with those who sold these package tours. Many of these journeys, which have begun before the initiative here, are associated with relatively high costs, and if you have to reimburse them without having it covered by the guarantee, then it raises a question of liquidity. Then I have a question about the actual cost. After all, there are also many actual costs which are not covered, even if this is the case as regards the marketing of journeys covered. What is the Minister going to do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200430113227	Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430113230	But there is no reason to pretend that the interrupted journeys are included, because they are not. I am just trying to say that where the focus has been on our part has been where most of the costs to the industry are due to corona. That's why we've been focusing on the cancelled and cancelled package travel here. Then you can keep on discussing whether there are different things you have to do here. I think it has been said by several other rapporteurs that there are real, very many and also diverse considerations that one can choose to take. And that is why I believe that the expert meeting, which may be scheduled for today, will be a good opportunity to highlight the advantages and disadvantages of the various additional measures that can be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430113318	The next brief remark is to Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430113324	Thank you. I agree: there are many things that could be discussed, too, for those journeys that are not package travel, etc. However, I would actually like to take a step back and ask the Minister whether, given the situation we are in now, there could be a need for particularly targeted action towards the industry. After all, the travel industry is not just dependent on how we deal with the health crisis in Denmark. The industry is also affected by what conditions look like in the rest of the world, and this means that it is one of the industries that will be affected for the longest time. And it is not just the travel industry; it is also the industry which can depend on both limited import opportunities and limited export opportunities. So I would like to know whether the Minister considers that there is a need for follow-up measures that are more targeted at the industries that will be affected over a long period of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430113421	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430113423	We are all constantly discussing each other, because fortunately we are united in this as Parliament, how we can help the industries that are hard hit. And there is no doubt that the travel industry is one of the industries that is exceptionally hard hit by the corona crisis. The arrangements made with the state guarantee, the possibility of borrowing, the addition to the areas of action of the Travel Guarantee Fund, are precisely a specially targeted initiative for the travel industry, which, moreover, must be remembered, also have access to the various other aid packages that exist. But I am also listening to the interest of Members of the Things to see if there are other things, but could do so. I just think that with regard to the basis for making that decision, it would be very useful to present the many different views that are in the industry. One of the rapporteurs said earlier that wherever you lie in this matter, there will always be some who do not feel that you have laid down where they would like. And I think we could rightly and wisely put that picture ahead of us before we make any further decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430113541	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430113545	Thank you for that answer. I also think that it is important, in addition to dealing with the health crisis that we are facing now, to look forward also to the economic crisis that comes in the wake of the health crisis, and of which we are already feeling the consequences. Will the Minister give some thought to what the Minister is doing about what we can do to save as many jobs as possible and to help to take care not in the face of the health crisis, but in the face of the economic crisis that we are also facing and in the face of? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430113617	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430113619	Well, I actually think there was a very fine question debate in this Chamber yesterday between the Prime Minister, the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Health and the party leaders of the various parties precisely for the purpose of discussing what a longer-term plan for the reopening of our society looks like. And the reopening of our society is, of course, the element that can help hold hands under Danish business, hold hands under our economy. In addition, of course, we will also be discussing other economic tools as we put in place the plan for reopening. The prerequisite for us to continue to open up more and more and take new economic initiatives is, of course, that the reopening is sound and controlled and that it succeeds. If it doesn't succeed, and if we let go of the pressure of infection, we can be knocked back.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430113711	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430113718	Thank you. There is no doubt that I would like us to have a very financially responsible approach to the aid packages. I think I share that with many of the parties. I do not believe that we should concentrate solely on individual sectors. I think we should try to lift ourselves up and look at: what is it really that the whole tourism and experience economy is going to stand here now? What kind of strategy do we have to put in place for the whole industry? There's the travel industry part of it. That is why I think it would be a very good thing, and I would like to ask the Minister if he would start by taking the initiative to set up a meeting in which, like us, we will have the opportunity to discuss what we can actually do to keep our hands on a very large sector. The travel industry is part of it, but we must not forget that there are many outside the travel industry who are experiencing exactly the same economic crisis in their business as the travel industry. Therefore, an overall analysis, as has been proposed, and an overall strategy to ensure that the money goes as far as possible and that it is as fair as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430113825	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430113829	I can at least sign that it is important to pursue a responsible economic policy, not least in the time we are in now, but a responsible economic policy is, of course, also to help our business community to be there on the other side of the corona crisis. To respond specifically to the question whether a meeting on the tourism and experience economy can be facilitated: of course, this can be done, and we can make this a topic for a discussion in our rapporteur's group, where we are seen regularly, sometimes physically, other times in the virtual world. This might be usefully coordinated with the consideration of setting up an expert meeting aimed at the travel industry. I'm sure we can make that happen. I can also just add by saying that right now we in the Ministry of Industry are in dialogue with workers' and employers' organisations and health authorities to provide guidelines for precisely the tourism and experience economy so that they are ready to properly reopen the day it comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430113932	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430113935	Thank you. I will certainly look forward to that. There is no doubt that reopening is what needs to be done. It must then come at the rate which the authorities consider to be appropriate. But that is not enough, because even in the context of reopening, there will also be a need for us to support, monitor and help, so as to safeguard the jobs of businesses. What is the Minister thinking? It's not either or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20200430113958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430114002	No, it certainly isn't. When a reopening takes place and new opportunities or old well-known opportunities arise again, it could be a restaurant, a zoo or other places.Of course, it is really, really important that we support that the Danes as consumers also dare and want to use the offers that are available. There are, among other things: the work on getting the right guidelines together with the industry a really important element in the work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430114035	The next brief remark is from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430114039	Thank you. In New Citizens, we are happy to cooperate constructively on what we can do to help the industry, and we would like to see tax reductions and VAT reductions and everything else. However, I would also like to warn against getting an industry on the support and providing increased state aid in such an industry compared with other sectors is not something we in the New Citizens will be voting for. We would like to look at how we can help, but to give more money and make a business sector dependent on state aid for longer is not a road we want to drive. I would like the Minister to comment on whether this is a road he is not looking at, but that we should look at other tools in order to solve some of the problems that lie here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430114126	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430114129	I do not think there are any of us who want us to have a business community on this aid, which I think was the expression here. At least it's not a wish that I or the government have. But we do want a business community to stand up when we get on the other side of the Corona crisis, and it is therefore not wrong to look particularly at those parts of the Danish business community that are most severely affected. And I guess it's also in the light that we've chosen to create with each other this special guarantee scheme, which isn't made for other industries, but is made for the travel industry because it's so hard hit. We have done so because we want to avoid a wave of bankruptcies, and we want to see an industry that can continue to work, as I think the rapporteur himself said in his speech; people will travel again and there will be a travel industry for them when we get there. So I listen to the views of the New Citizens' Party and at least share the part that we should not, of course, have a business community on the support, but I do not think that our aid schemes are an expression of that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430114234	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430114237	No, and that is precisely the advantage, one can say, by the way one has given extra help here for the travel industry, that is precisely by the fact that it is the industry itself that helps itself. Perhaps one could have said that too, if one had thought it through, could have been a good solution for other industries. I'd like to challenge something. To many of the parties who now believe that we must do one thing and the other, so that the business community does not feel this crisis at all, I would say that it should have been supported that we did not change section 27 when we made the epidemic law. For then everyone from the business community would have been guaranteed compensation, because you had a right to compensation, but it was removed by changing § 27. Then, since then, we have needed a host of aid packages and all sorts of other things that we have spent a very, very long time on. But it was because section 27 was changed that this need arose.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430114322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430114325	It may well be that it turns out that it is not only in the travel industry that there are different views, but that there can also be different views in the Parliamentary Chamber. It just makes the task all the more complicated to get rid of it. In spite of this, however, I would like to say that I am extremely pleased with the good cooperation we have in the rapporteur's group in actually succeeding in finding solutions together. I hope that this can continue, even if we can have different views on how the aid packages and the various other legislation adopted here during the Corona crisis work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430114358	Thank you to the Minister for Business. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430114419	As far as I can see, most rapporteurs are already present. The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kasper Sand Kjær, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430114442	Thank you for the floor. The draft law we are discussing here transposes the proportionality test directive into Danish law. This provides for an obligation on public authorities to carry out a proportionality assessment of rules restricting access to a regulated profession. The assessment must be carried out before the rules are issued. Regulatory professions are those which require specific qualifications in order to be able to exercise the profession. In Denmark, a person's education and qualifications are required in order to function as such. doctor, nurse or teacher in primary school. These requirements aim to ensure the safety, health and consumer protection of citizens. The proportionality testing directive provides for an analytical proportionality framework to be applied by Member States prior to the adoption of new or amended regulation in relation to access to, or the exercise of, regulated professions. This does not mean that we can no longer decide for ourselves what is required to become, for example, a doctor or a nurse. I just think this is important to establish, because there are more people who have expressed concern in the consultation responses in relation to the legislative proposal, because the regulation of health requirements should be a national matter. It is therefore important to say that neither the legislative proposal nor the directive that is being implemented will change the regulation of the professions in Denmark. It will remain our own decision whether to call ourselves a nurse in Denmark higher than in Poland or France. However, the directive ensures that there is a uniform proportionality assessment of the regulation of the professions in the Member States. It will make it more transparent, and we think that is quite reasonable. The draft law also follows up on the implementation of the 2015 Recognition Directive. The European Commission has indicated that Denmark's implementation of the directive's rules on redress is not sufficient. That is why the draft law proposes that the Minister for Education and Research be authorised to lay down rules on the right of appeal in matters relating to the issue of professional passports and in cases where a warning is issued for a named professional. The rules on when a warning is issued are not changed, but the right to complain about warnings is made clearer. Overall, it is a little technical, but a sensible implementation of EU legislation that ensures more transparency. The Social Democratic Party naturally supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430114704	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, and that is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430114714	Thank you very much. I would like to start with a slightly more general view of the drafting of this draft law that we are discussing today, because I must actually admit that I drew a lot on the smile tape when I read the submission speech. That's why I did what I'd like to call a walk. I went down the hall and asked good colleagues and employees: what is this all about? I asked them to read the address. And I can assure the Minister that this led to some good laughs, because the wordings in the submission and the comments are completely incomprehensible, I think. They are written in a cancelli language of the worst drawer, which is best characterized as black talk. So I've actually been out doing a bit of detective work trying to figure out what's actually up and down in this case. The directive on a proportionality test, such as this draft law. implement, was originally presented to the European Committee by the Minister for Industry. Perhaps that is why, at first sight, it seemed to me to be a foreign bird in the field of education and research, and here I must confess that the presentation and comments on the bill did not exactly help explain why the implementation of the proportionality testing directive had fallen into my lot as the Left Education and Research Rapporteur. However, after reading through the Danish Minister for Industry's memorandum to the European Committee prior to the Council of Ministers' meeting back in 2017, I came a little closer. The aim of the bill is really good. After all, the Recognition Directive has long since been transposed into Danish law, and this allows EU citizens working in regulated professions, such as doctors, nurses, physiotherapists, pharmacists, to work in other EU countries if they are authorised to do their job in their country of origin. It thus strengthens the freedom of movement, which is, after all, one of the most important cornerstones of EU cooperation. In connection with the amendment of the recognition directive in 2013, a Union regulation on the procedure for issuing the European Professional Card and the application of the warning system has been adopted. The transposition of the recognition directive into Danish law has not been sufficient with regard to some of the provisions of the directive on redress, which is being corrected by this draft law. Then there is the implementation of the proportionality test directive, which is the second leg. The aim here is to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market for services by avoiding inappropriate national special rules in the regulated professions to which the recognition directive refers. That's really good, too. The recognition directive does not, of course, mean that individual Member States are not allowed to regulate their own professions, but it states that national requirements restricting access to a profession or its performance to holders of special professional qualifications must be: (1) non-discriminatory, (2) justified by overriding reasons and (3) proportionate. The recognition directive therefore already obliges the Member States to assess the proportionality of the regulation of professions so that the requirements do not exceed what is necessary. There has been a very diverse way of understanding the three principles of the recognition directive across EU countries, and that is why the directive on proportionality tests has been drafted. The directive therefore introduces a common framework for how national authorities demonstrate that draft rules are justified on grounds of overriding public interest and are proportionate. To sum up, the draft law strengthens both freedom of movement, a streamlining of this corner of the internal market, and thus transparency and tranquillity about consumer protection. And, of course, the Left supports that. There is, however, one thing I would like to mention here, and that is that the Minister in the comments has, and I understood it, ticked the box which shows that the draft law here over-implements the EU directive in Danish law. And I would really like to ask the Minister what does that mean? I have not been able to find the answers in the comments. What does it mean that, with the bill here, we are proposing an overimplementation? If the Minister cannot answer that today, it is certainly something that we in the Left will be asking about during the committee's proceedings. In conclusion, however, I would like to make a few comments on the drafting of the draft law. I think it is somewhat sloppy, understood in this way, that one has by no means made an effort to explain the content of a language that can be understood by ordinary people. In other words, the address should be accessible and understandable, including to members of parliament. This is a little too much, I think, of an expedition exercise and of the fact that it has been said: well, it is just an implementation of some EU technology. On the other hand, I am a little nervous and afraid that the approach to the EU drug that has been granted may be complicated, risks running out into an undeserved EU leader because it seems opaque. First Vice-President The speaking time is well exceeded!). And that is a shame when it comes to a legislative proposal to implement EU legislation that actually strengthens transparency and uniformity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430115401	Thank you to the rapporteur. Speaking time was somewhat exceeded, but the attempt to make the bill informative is, however, recognised, I can look at the other rapporteurs. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430115422	Thank you. I think it's really nice to have a case that, for once, isn't corona-related. The fact that it is then a proposal for an EU directive, which the previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, is not particularly readable and which it is rather difficult to see through the concrete effect of, should not diminish that joy. I also look forward to getting on with many of the agendas that we have to wait for in this area: teacher training, pedagogy training, basic funding and much more. I look forward to it. The directive provides a framework for the procedure when rules on regulated professions such as doctors and nurses are introduced or adjusted, and as has been mentioned before: the proportionality testing directive establishes an analytical proportionality framework which Member States must apply prior to the adoption of new or amended regulation in relation to access to or the exercise of regulated professions. I hope everyone understood that. I have to say that before we can finally take a position on the draft law in DF, we need to clarify what that will mean in practice in relation to our ability to create national rules, for example. Doctors and nurses. For some of what this is about is that there may be a conflict between free movement and the specific rules that we may need to have at home. So we need clarity about that. This is also one of the problems posed by consultation responses from the Medical Association, FOA and FH. So we need to clarify how it is ensured that health can be maintained, that regulation is a national matter, and I expect the Minister to reply to that a little later. And if that does not happen, we must take it into account in the work of the committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430115615	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left. This is Mrs. Katrine Robsøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430115625	Thank you. First of all, thank you to Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær for reviewing the law, but also a thousand thanks to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs for the detective work. I must also say that this had to be read some times before it was understandable, and that is why I believe that several of us have talked to the Minister about it, even before today, in order to find out what was up and down in this. And that, of course, is a bad start to a legal process. Having said that, this is a piece of legislation that makes it easier to understand the requirements of the regulated professions in the various EU countries. And I am also sensitive to the fact that this is at least if I have understood it correctly, and the Minister can also confirm that this has no impact on whether Denmark can decide for itself what requirements we have for these professions, but that it is a question of seeing what requirements are being made more transparent. Of course, we can only support this from the radical side. And that's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430115742	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the SF, and that is Mrs Astrid Carøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430115753	Thank you. I would also like to start by saying that I also found it difficult at first and perhaps second sight to understand what this bill was all about. And it can also be said that it is a little ironic that a legislative proposal that ensures more transparency was so difficult to figure out. Nevertheless, we support the bill. We think this is a good implementation of this directive. And we are also pleased that the draft law cannot relax the requirements of our health care professionals in Denmark, because in SF we do not think that consideration of free movement must weaken the safety of proper professional qualifications. But fortunately it does not, so we are happy about that and we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430115831	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Mai Villadsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430115837	Thank you. When I was elected to Parliament almost 1 year ago... it was well in the summer... I found out that there is perhaps a small crowd in the population who sometimes cries out that we politicians don't know what we're talking about. I certainly do not think they are right, but when I read this bill, I also came to think: should I now stand in the Chamber and talk about something I have no idea anything about? So I had to do detective work, like several people in this Chamber, and now, after also expert advice from EU people, I have quite understood what can be said, the hops in the bill. For this bill will mean that every time new legislation is adopted which regulates requirements for different professions, for the sake of the internal market, an assessment must be made as to whether the intervention is in line with the adverse effect on the market. This is why there are more people in the consultation answers who are concerned about what this legislation is going to mean. The Pharmacy Association and the Medical Association. That is also why there was a rather big debate, I was able to read back in 2017, when this proposal was up in the European Committee or when there was a proposal for adoption in the European Union for which a mandate was to be given. Because, on the one hand, it makes sense to streamline the demand for products so that consumers can expect what they get. But we must also always take care of both the rights of workers and our welfare societies. It's really important. So we must not, I believe, compromise on the quality of our welfare just because we need to streamline. That is why it is very important to me that during this debate we get some answers to the critical voices that are a little bit in the consultation answers; among other things. It is very important for the trade union movement to continue to take account of the safety of workers in the form of appropriate training. And I am also concerned when the Dentist Association says that they lack the opinion in the draft law as to whether the implementation intends to ensure that the proportionality assessments take into account the specific nature of health. This may cause me some concern, because we have also seen examples in the past of the fact that special language requirements have not been made available to doctors in Denmark if they were trained in or came from an EU country. However, it has been possible to do so in relation to doctors coming from outside the European Union, and we do not want to end up in a situation where a legislative proposal that should improve conditions will in fact relax conditions in Denmark. That is why we put ourselves in the Enhedslisten critical but inquiring about the work on this law, and then after a committee reading, and after we have looked at particular health, but also the area of workers, we will take a position on how we intend to deal with the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430120202	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430120209	Thank you. This bill, as has been said earlier, is a bit complicated, and it was actually quite liberating to me when such an experienced person as Ulla Tørnæs, former Minister and Member of Parliament, said yesterday in the group: what is really meant? There I was relieved, because I thought: Now I'm starting to get my test here as a new one in the Folketing. After all, this is really a directive to ensure that national rules do not create unnecessary discrimination or challenges for the internal market, and this is ensured by these proportionality tests prior to the adoption of new regulation for professions, and it is of course an advantage for the internal market that Member States should carry out these tests before introducing restrictive legislation in relation to professional qualifications. So far, so good. The Commission has learned that these criteria, which must be included in the assessments, are lacking in clarity. I do not know whether this directive or its purpose has become clearer, but the essence is that these criteria, about six paragraphs, have been made and a framework for carrying out the proportionality assessments. So, in its entirety, we believe that the purpose of the directive and the announcement are quite useful, and it envisages a directive-by-law implementation, and then it is up to the Member States to establish a level of protection in relation to the stated objectives of social interest and what level of regulation is appropriate, and we think that is positive, and we can be both obs on overimplementation and prevent it. It is a good thing that the Member States should have a say in this, because it is a question of education and vocational training. However, from a slightly broader perspective, we would also like existing restrictions on mutual recognition by Member States to be assessed in terms of proportionality, so that it was not only about new measures or measures that are being reviewed, but all existing measures. In other words, restrictions on the mutual recognition of professional qualifications are not reduced by having existed for a long time. However, overall, the Conservative People's Party believes that we are continuing at the level of working to ensure that restrictions are not used for protectionist purposes and that all restrictions on mutual recognition must be assessed in terms of proportionality. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430120434	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430120440	Thank you for the floor. This is a very technical bill we are dealing with here. The aim of the bill is to implement an EU directive on a proportionality test prior to the adoption of new regulation of professions in Danish law. The purpose of this Directive is to lay down rules on proportionality assessments with a view to ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market, while ensuring transparency and a high level of consumer protection. The proportionality testing directive provides for an analytical proportionality framework to be applied by the Member States. Here it is important to remember that Denmark is already subject to EU law in this area. The Minister has indicated that if this bill is adopted, it will not lead to a deterioration in the qualifications required to carry out regulated professions in Denmark, and I would ask the Minister to confirm that. New citizens, as you know, want Denmark out of the EU, but at the same time we are realistic and have to recognise that we are currently. is a member of the European Union and that is why, within the framework of the European Union, we must work to ensure the best conditions for Denmark and for the Danes. The present draft law seeks more clarity and a uniform framework for the use of certain training and professional qualifications across EU countries. In principle, in new citizens, we support better clarification and greater transparency in EU laws and in the implementation of these laws. Greater transparency in relation to what the European Court of Justice lays down for decisions is, as a starting point, positive. So the draft law seems to be perfectly valid, but I do have a number of questions that I would like to ask in connection with the work of the committee on this bill. And then we in the New Citizen will be determined by our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430120628	Thank you to the rapporteur for the new citizens. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430120635	Thank you for the floor. Seeing this bill is like meeting an old acquaintance you haven't seen in a few years. This is, in fact, a revision of the very first legislative proposal on which I was rapporteur in 2015, just after the parliamentary elections opened in 2015, and down in my office I still have the agenda for that day hanging with the signatures of the then members. It was the recognition directive that we had at the time. That is why I can also explain why this bill is on the Research Minister's agenda, because it did so at the time of 2015, when we were supposed to implement the recognition directive five research ministers ago. It's amazing that things have been going this way, and that's why it's of course also logical that this audit is now within the field of the Ministry of Research. The original recognition directive, which we incorporated into Danish law in 2015, was, of course, very sensible, even though it was also a heavy reading material, because it was precisely about the free movement of workers. Now a criticism has been made by the European Commission that we have implemented it in a way that is critical of, and we must, of course, be sensitive to that. Because when it works against Denmark, we are, of course, very critical of introducing technical barriers to trade by the back way, and that is why we should not do it ourselves. So it is a good proposal which solves some of the issues here about putting unreasonable obstacles in the way of certain types of professional, for example. In the field of health. And it also helps to solve some of the problems that have been in Denmark in relation to the recruitment of health professionals, and it is also a positive thing. As we supported the predecessor of this bill in 2015, we also support this in 2020. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430120859	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance. There are no brief comments to the rapporteur, and that is why we have come to the Minister for Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430120908	Thank you. It is fantastic that, on this basis, you can both dive into detective work and contribute to a copy. Maybe I didn't see that coming when I sent it out to you. First of all, this bill has purposed several of you have quite well reviewed it, but now it is also happening from my side and therefore from the ministerial side to implement the so-called proportionality directive of 2018. It deals in general with the way in which EU Member States lay down rules restricting access to, or the pursuit of, professions. It is, of course, a question of us having regulated professions • 130 of them in Denmark. That is, for example, the case. doctors, crane drivers, nurses, elevator mounters, lawyers and teachers in primary school. The Proportionality Test Directive deals with our duty to ensure that the requirements laid down to provide access to a profession are objectively justified and in accordance with the principle of proportionality of EU law. It is up to the individual Member States themselves to assess the proportionality of the requirements to be laid down, and this must be done on the basis of considerations such as: health and safety. In the view of the European Commission, however, there has been a lack of clarity among the Member States on the criteria to be applied in assessing the proportionality of requirements for regulated professions, and this is the lack of clarity that the European Commission is seeking to address with this directive. The directive establishes a common framework for carrying out the proportionality assessments and must support Member States in future to carry out the necessary proportionality assessments in a uniform manner and in accordance with the same criteria. It is important to note that neither this draft law nor the directive which the draft law implements intends to change the current regulation of professions in Denmark, and Denmark will therefore be able to impose relevant requirements for the pursuit of professions in the future, including for example: In the field of health, too, a number of rapporteurs have asked about this. The draft law also follows up the implementation of the 2015 Recognition Directive. Thus, the draft law also contains provisions aimed at implementing provisions on certain remedies in the recognition directive. Having said that all this can be a technical round, I have a great deal of respect for what we are trying to say across the Chamber, namely that we as legislators and as Members of Parliament must of course understand what we have in our hands. Therefore also a huge thanks for the detective work, Ulla, and in fact also all of you who have tried to dive into and actually understand what we are sitting with. I think that disproves Mrs May Villadsen's words, in relation to what is being heard about, that we do not know what we are talking about. I also have a great deal of respect for the entire group of rapporteurs today and the perseverance in understanding what we are dealing with. This is not the same as the fact that there is no need for the work of the committee, such as, among other things, the Committee. The rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party is asking for this. I think we should make room for that very much. I would also like to offer a technical review if it is deemed necessary. It may well be that there are questions, even of a very technical nature, which need to be asked for advice from lawyers. But, of course, I would also like to reply to what is being asked here. Among other things: overimplementation is being asked. It is true that we have crossed the fact that we are overimplementing, and in fact it has nothing to do with the proportionality part, but it has something to do with the second part of the right to appeal. Because when we originally adopted it here and implemented it in Danish law, we decided that if a doctor, for example. has used false documentation, of course a warning can be sent out so that the doctor can be deprived of access to work as a doctor in Denmark. We have also chosen these warnings for third countries, which means, of course, that the right of appeal must also apply to them, and that is in the small corner of the agenda. So, yes, we are over-implementing, but in reality for what I think is very sensible, to continue to be able to warn about if there are problems with third country citizens, for example. works in our health care system. I look forward to the further examination of the draft law and, as I said, I would very much like to ask questions, but in fact I will also put the whole system behind me for a technical review, etc., if that is deemed necessary. Thank you all very much for your comments and comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430121414	Thank you to the Minister for Education and Research. There is just one comment about the use of direct indictments to the rapporteurs, which is understandable, at a time when you find pleasure in the approach to the examination of the bill. There is just one brief comment to make to the Minister and it is from Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430121432	Thank you very much, and thank you to the Minister, and especially thank you so much for being able to give us an account of the state of play. However, allow me to put it as a written question during the committee procedure, because I cannot really decipher it in these very, very complicated written remarks, and that then brings me to the question of the Minister. I may have heard a hint of it, but would I like to be quite sure that we are on the same wavelength here after all: wouldn't the Minister agree that this might have been written with a slightly more understandable pen so that one wouldn't have to go to the detective work that several of us have been? It would have been helpful in many ways, and the detective work that we've been doing doesn't have people outside this house the same options. So I just need to know if the minister doesn't share the view that this could have been better written by the lawmakers in the Ministry?
ParlaMint-DK_20200430121538	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430121539	Yes, the Minister agrees with that, and once again also with a formal indictment to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs's praise for the detective work and the perseverance in actually understanding what we have between our hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430121549	Then there are no further brief comments to the Minister. So thank you to the Minister for Education and Research. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430121608	There is just a replacement of the rapporteurs, and then I have a repeat of the fact that the negotiations are being conducted from the seats and, of course, for the purpose of drawing up the minutes, we are very careful not to begin our rapporteur's speech until the red ring on the microphone lights up. The debate is now open, and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430121645	Thank you. For social democracy, there are at least two main reasons why we need to ensure a better and more mixed composition of children in our day care institutions. There is first consideration for the individual child. It is simply not good enough that there is still too much connection between your parents' background and the chances you have in life. If you come from a socially challenged home, if you come from a home where there is a language other than Danish, or a home where unemployment and illness dominate, you as a child need to meet something else in your daily life. This is also happening in the institution: If you grow up in a family where you don't speak Danish at the dinner table, I think you need an everyday life and friends where that is the case. My own daughter came home from kindergarten yesterday and said about one of her girlfriends that she was a chat room. Now the apple does not fall so far from the tree, and I think that my daughter fits that description better than she herself in her three-year-old brain is conscious, but nevertheless it is a good example of her learning to master a language that is not logical in any way. If you take the word chatterchatol word for word, I guess it's close to being nonsense, and that's not what it means at all. I think it illustrates very well that if one does not have the opportunity to get into a context where there is discussion and where there is talk, then one also has worse conditions for succeeding in school. And, of course, language is an important part. One of the best chances of helping children on their way, regardless of their background, is a skilled educational staff, good friends and time and space to actually see the individual child. It was the fear of some of the integration challenges, some of the social challenges that could lie in individual institutions that made an agreement back in 2018 to ensure that max. 30% of those who entered the institutions each year came from vulnerable residential areas where there is a greater concentration of children with some of these challenges. This is an extremely important agreement from the point of view of social democratic spectacles, but it is also clear that this has been a major change in many municipalities. That is why the agreement provided for the possibility of dispensing if one had a plan for how to comply with the legislation. So the thing about saying that you had a practical challenge and needed a little more time, there was thus a possibility, but only if you put your hand on the hot plate and said: We actually know how we intend to get there so that we can live up to the law; we have a plan. It is a derogation practice that has been implemented, and the Minister has done so on the basis of the legal basis that has been created. But we also believe that it is time to say that we do not need that anymore, because there has actually been time to adapt. The various institutions and municipalities have had the opportunity to prepare themselves for the fact that this is where the legislation is now, and although practical challenges are being raised, I do believe that we have to stick to the importance of this, because it is a matter of giving all children a chance to strengthen the community we have with each other across, and perhaps sometimes even in spite of the fact that we come from different starting points. In the midst of a serious crisis, which we spend most of the time in here talking about, I think that the Corona crisis has shown that our best weapon in the fight against the crisis is actually a strong community where you help each other, take into account and accept that not everyone can start straight up quickly and where you actually rely on society to reach out and help those who need it most when it burns on. That community is a community that many countries around us envy us. It's created because we meet across. After all, our social ideal is not an American society in which we live side by side, but a society in which we live together. The intention behind this legislation is also an expression of that. I therefore hope, of course, that there will be support to ensure that our children go to school and to day care with each other, not just next to each other. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430122052	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430122057	Thank you. It gets a little awkward when you're standing with your back to the one you ask. After all, we disagreed with the law when it was adopted in 2018, and it is not my intention to resume it more generally, but there is something that puzzles me a little. If we now see that we have a severe economic crisis which makes it very likely that at least two of the four criteria defining whether you are a exposed residential area are so much at risk that the question of how many 18-64-year-olds are without support and the question of the total income in the household is not the rapporteur's concern that we are going to see that a number of residential areas that have not yet been covered by the ghetto criteria will now be, and for the consequences that this could have in relation to the day institutions in relation to the 30-year rule?
ParlaMint-DK_20200430122155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430122156	You have to be made of stone if you are not worried that there will be more unemployed and that it does not matter. However, with my glasses and from the point of view of the Social Democrats, it is perhaps almost even more important in a situation where more people are experiencing unemployment, exposure, that we actually ensure that we meet across, that we stiffen each other by getting to know each other. That is why I believe that the whole idea of this legislative proposal is even more important in a situation where we have been in crisis. It is also because, unfortunately, we know that the crises tend to reinforce some of the social and economic divisions that are already in existence because they simply fall into a social disadvantage. So, yes, there are practical challenges. That is also why some municipalities have looked into saying: we have a plan. We can't get to the goal fast enough. But there has to be a plan, and the ambition that we meet across is even more important on top of a corona crisis than it has been when this agreement was made in 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430122303	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430122304	For the sake of order: it is not the desire for diversity that separates us, but the way to do so. What I'm really asking is whether the timing isn't incredibly bad. After all, exemptions of up to ten years' duration have now been granted in relation to the areas which had applied back here half a year or even a year ago. Is it not an extremely bad timing for tighter regulations to be introduced so that it will not be possible for the Minister to grant derogations? I think the reverse could have been logical: that a derogation was created now that it seems to change - unfortunately very violently in relation to some of the non-profit housing areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430122350	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430122351	I certainly don't want to shoot sir. Jakob Silver mound in your shoes that you don't want diversity. What I am saying here is that one of the problems is that however imperfect the tools are, you cannot say that you want diversity when you do not want to use the tools that are used or have some others that you actually think can deliver them here. The derogations granted are, of course, based on the fact that there are very different situations in the municipalities. You knew that when you made the law. That is why a derogation was actually made available. However, it is also clear that the legal basis in force has been assessed, and it has also been assessed in such a way that there has been no derogation beyond what was needed in the specific situation in which we were faced. It is because it is extremely important for everyone to comply with the content and requirements of the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430122445	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further comments to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430122453	Thank you, Madam President. Roughly speaking, we didn't really have to stand here today. For the legislative proposal that we are debating, which abolishes the derogation clause in the rules governing the distribution of day-to-day institutions, which was part of the dispute with parallel societies, has basically only become necessary because the government has pursued a lenient immigration and integration policy, in which the Social Democrats have made it economically attractive to be outside the labour market and where, in this area, derogations from the provisions of the ghetto package have been applied and some very long derogations of up to ten years have also been granted. The derogation envisaged as a cat door has made the government a barn door, and the latest figures we have been given are that exemptions have been granted to 45 institutions, which together have room for 2,775 children. Unfortunately, the many children do not benefit directly and quickly from the initiatives of the ghetto package.Those who should have given them a better start in life; those who should have ensured that we helped to secure a fight with the negative social heritage and also ensure a chance for them in life; yes, the initiatives that should improve integration and ensure that all children get Denmark under their skin and do not end up in an institution where almost all children have a different ethnic background and where there is a great risk of not learning properly Danish and meeting Danish cultural values and traditions. These many children do not meet this because of the many exceptions that have been granted. If the Social Democratic government had maintained the former government's policy of integration... as they actually promised the Danes during the election campaign... this bill would not have been necessary. However, the Socialist Government has relaxed the policy of immigration and integration since it took office last summer, and the bill we are discussing today is, in fact, basically a fig leaf to cover up some of the concessions that have been made. When we on the Left choose to support the bill, it is also to put an end to those reductions. We believe that too many and too long derogations have been granted by the government to day-care institutions in vulnerable residential areas which do not have to meet the new distribution requirements. And the battle with parallel societies is extremely important for the Left, it has continued, and it was when we were in government. We must ensure that children do not lag behind from the very beginning of life; that they are not behind professionally, linguistically, socially, even when they start school, because they have not had proper access to speak Danish or move among peers who have Danish as their language. We know, unfortunately, that children from vulnerable residential areas have more difficulty in committing themselves and keeping up with school. So they're already behind when they start. Many of them today have no access to speak Danish with peers, and that was one of the things that the provisions of the ghetto package had to change. The derogation that was introduced into the original agreement should help to ensure that it is our conviction that the agreement could also work in practice. We think it was never intended that what was intended as a cat door should be turned into a barn door. In other words, this is a political choice. This is also evident from the comments and comments that have been made by the Minister and the government. And it is important that we no longer dispense after sights, guts and pleasures, but that the derogation should remain the kind of emergency provision that was intended and which should then be used in the future only in cases where new distribution requirements should be dispensed in such force majeure-like conditions, where this is something that cannot be changed politically and which can occur very quickly. In short, the agreement must be back on track so that children who grow up in vulnerable residential areas can have access to healthy children's environments, where Danish standards and democratic values are what fill their everyday lives and where we give them a better start to life and actually give them the opportunity they deserve. With those comments, the Left can support the bill, although we basically consider the bill unnecessary if it had been administered according to what was the agreement and the intention of the law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430122910	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430122914	After all, Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby has been a minister herself and knows that when you sit in that chair, you have to manage on the basis of the legislation in force. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur cannot confirm that the legislation on which the current minister has issued the derogations is the legislation made by the previous government following the conclusion of this agreement. So the current minister has administered the legislation made by Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby's government. Of course, you have to stay within that as the Minister. Can the rapporteur not confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200430122953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430122954	As Minister, we must, of course, administer in accordance with the law and with the provisions that exist, and now we must use the committee procedure to identify whether there has been a lax practice in relation to the administration of the law. That is the view that we are left with, also in the light of the comments that have been made, in view of the fact that it has been a political process, including the derogations. It can be said that if this were just about an administration of the law, there would have been no reason for there to be a single political case for each individual application for exemption. However, we must use the legal procedure to clarify this. As I said at the outset, we in the Left support the bill. However, we do not think it would have been necessary to adopt more restrictive practices from the outset in relation to the derogations granted and the length of the derogations. We think that 10 years is very violent, since it was basically about the municipalities having time to adapt according to the circumstances. A few years, not ten years, should be able to prove that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430123058	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430123058-2	We are very happy to discuss anything in committee. However, I think it is rather nice if the rapporteur makes a speech which basically accuses the Minister of not having administered according to the law that was made, and when it is then complained about, it is said: now we have to find out in committee whether that is actually the case. In other words, the rapporteur must decide whether the rapporteur actually thinks that the minister has gone outside or whether the rapporteur does not actually know it at this stage. So, let us finally get into that discussion in committee, but we have to stick to the fact that if the rapporteur is basing it in thin air on the allegations that the Minister should have acted outside the legislation or not in line with the legislation made by the rapporteur's own government, then frankly, I think it is a little nice that we are doing this before we really know what we are talking about, as I understand the rapporteur here in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430123158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430123159	Well, the Social Democrats and the Social Democratic Government have relaxed foreign policy and integration policy in Denmark, and I know that we are constantly trying to distance ourselves from this. But that is the case, both in the area of benefits and in the specific legislative proposal that we are discussing today. That is also why we then choose to support the bill: that it is necessary to tighten up on the basis of the practice that has been practiced by the Minister and the government in relation to granting exemptions. And that is something we must discuss further in relation to the committee's proceedings. There is no doubt that what had been agreed and what was meant by the legislation was that it should be a cat door, not a barn door. This is the clear political experience that we are also left with in relation to the negotiations that took place while we were in government, in relation to what was the understanding of the original legislation that was adopted. And that is not what we are experiencing has been administered by the current government, and that is, of course, a political choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430123256	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party. Mrs. Marie Krarup, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430123302	Thank you. In 2018, the Social Democracy, the Left and the Liberal Alliance entered into an agreement that there must be no more than 30%. children from vulnerable areas in a daycare institution. That means in Danish 30 per cent. ghetto children or immigrant children or children who are not integrated. The agreement was not part of the Danish People's Party. Because we do not think that Danish children should be forced into institutions to keep the proportion of foreigners down. It is not fair to the Danish families. But in fact it can also affect well-integrated alien families who have moved out of the ghetto that they will be distributed to a different place than they originally wanted, in order to keep down the proportion of ghetto children. It's not fair either. There is no doubt that the integration of foreigners will go better if the foreigners do not live concentrated in ghettos, as is the case today. It's safe and certain. But this is something that the strangers have to take care of first and foremost. The Danish People's Party has helped to help it on its way in some areas by being part of the ghetto package. But we have not been able to say yes to this particular part, as I said. Because it does not change the fact that integration is a personal choice, and if you do not make it, you simply should not be in Denmark. However, as we have just heard from the previous debate, L 163 is not about the forced distribution of children, but about the repeal of the exemption rule that was incorporated into the law. But without the possibility of exemption, this simply means that the law becomes even more compulsive and has to force Danish children, who have not wanted a particular institution, into where the figures say they are necessary. We cannot support this in the Danish People's Party. There are very major integration problems in Denmark. They must be solved by repatriations and know that the people who cannot be returned take responsibility for being integrated themselves, as well as by Danish institutions making clear demands on Danish knowledge and standards. The problems of integration must not be solved by the fact that Danish children are forced into ghetto institutions. So we cannot support L 163 just as we have not been able to support the agreement that was behind it or the law that implemented the agreement. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430123520	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430123526	Thank you. I just need to ask very briefly, perhaps because it was difficult for me to listen to the rest, which was said how to refer to very young children as strangers. I simply find that difficult to understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430123538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430123539	They are the ones born of foreign parents who are not Danish. I've spoken of them as strangers. Here they are referred to as children from exposed areas. But it's usually children who don't speak Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430123559	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430123600	So if you're born of a stranger, you're a stranger. When do you stop being a stranger if you're a child?
ParlaMint-DK_20200430123608	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430123609	It is, of course, a very big discussion, and there is no firm definition of it. But usually we say in the Danish People's Party that you are Danish when you are Danish in the heart and Danish in the passport. And it's probably a little difficult to get a child to explain, but you might say that when you have adopted Danish norms and the Danish language, you are Danish. The problem for these children is that their parents do not give them a chance to become Danish, and that is where I think it is parents' responsibility. They must move out of the ghetto and they must ensure that their children come to an institution where their original nationality is in a minority, so that they can be integrated, and if those families are not interested in it, they should not be in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430123651	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430123700	Thank you. We in the Radical Left are included in the agreement on mixed day-to-day services, because we believe, quite in line with what the Socialist rapporteur also said, that it is important for children to meet across borders. So we thought it was a good agreement and we also thought it was a good thing that there was a derogation. It is clear that this should not lead to the sudden complete closure of day-care institutions where there is no possibility of keeping up with them. That is also the reason why we are not in favour of abolishing the exemption system, because we believe that this abolition will cut off the opportunity to look at reality. It's just that, in general, we think that's too bad, so that's what we think in this case too. We are in favour of the government's argument that the derogations to be granted have now been granted, and that is the point. We just disagree that reality cannot change along the way, and we also have a belief that the municipalities are working on this and, of course, will always work on getting closer and closer to the goal. We certainly believe that the municipalities should; so do we believe that they do. We have reservations that sometimes reality can develop in a way where there is a need to look at it and in very special cases still give away a derogation. We can also see that in the consultation answers that have been received. There are both the municipalities, which are saddened by the abolition of this opt-out, and there are also those who work with the children who think that this could be seriously harmful, also in view of the covid-19 crisis, where there can be more people on the list of vulnerable residential areas, too, an example of something that cannot be exactly predicted. This may lead to a well-functioning day-care institution having to close if we abolish the derogation, which is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430123843	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Radical Left. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the SF, and that is Mrs Ina Strøder-Schmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430123852	SF works to ensure that children with different backgrounds meet in our day care institutions, but we also work to ensure that children with different backgrounds meet in the residential area in which they grow up, and here exemption access is important, because in some cases it makes good sense to grant a temporary derogation from the 30% requirement instead of closing a daycare institution. In particular, it will be institutions located in vulnerable residential areas that will be able to close when the derogation is abolished, and it would not be appropriate in cases where the day-care institution is well on its way to meeting the 30-percent requirement, but still lacks a little in terms of achieving it fully. In these cases, it would be a pity to close a day-care institution because it means a lot to parents in the area that there is a day-care institution nearby. We also know from studies that it is important for resourceful parents that there is a daycare centre nearby when they are considering moving to a exposed residential area. It is therefore important to be able to offer local day care institutions when the objective is mixed housing compositions in vulnerable residential areas. The SF cannot therefore support the abolition of the derogation. Moreover, as has also been mentioned, none of the other eight organisations have given a hearing which supports the abolition.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430124003	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten. It's sir. Jakob Silver Mound. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430124009	Thank you. I think it is rare that we are dealing with legislative proposals at least in the area of children and young people, where all the parties who have given the hearing are consistently opposed to the proposal. Nevertheless, this is the case with the proposal here, and I have to say that I fully understand the opposition to tightening the rules on the admission of children from vulnerable residential areas in day care centres. I should like to acknowledge that the Enhedslisten's position on the removal of the derogation should be seen in the light of the fact that we were very critical and voted against the introduction of the 30% ceiling on the proportion of children from vulnerable residential areas. The ceiling means that many children are cut off from being admitted to a daycare centre in the area where they live. We think that's bad from the child's point of view. This will make everyday life more difficult for parents and it will probably have the effect of counteracting the fact that many resourceful families actually settle in what is today referred to as vulnerable residential areas. In our view, there was an attenuating element in the law, and it was that the municipalities affected by the law could apply for exemption, so that they could at least for a longer period be exempted from implementing the law in practice. As others have said, a dozen municipalities have exploited it, probably in recognition of the fact that it would be a very incalculable process to get the distribution of seats in place and because they considered that they would abolish well-functioning institutions. Therefore, I also think it is perfectly understandable that, in the consultation answer they have given to the proposal here, the National Association of Municipalities is extremely critical of the proposal, that they note that this could lead to additional risks for institutional closures and that, in the view of the KL, this could potentially lead to additional costs of 400-600 million. kr. Finally, and I think this is worth noting, the KL points out that the draft law does not refer to equality before the law, since the abolition of the derogation will affect the municipalities very differently. Several of the other consultative parties highlight the fact that, with a sharp rise in unemployment due to the corona crisis, we can find ourselves in a situation where a number of non-profit-making housing areas, which today do not fall under the ghetto criteria, come to that: the criterion of the proportion of 18-64-year-olds outside the labour market and the criterion of the average gross income in the housing area concerned. I and Enhedslisten are concerned that there will be a number of other residential areas that will in future fall under the criteria. This is a criticism which, for example, only today. is mentioned by many in Jyllands-Posten. And I think that it can be very easy as the children's and cultural leaders write in their hearing answer, namely that this proposal could close up well-functioning institutions. From the point of view of Enhedslisten, therefore, it is not just the content of the proposal that we need to look at. It is also the timing of that, as I have already asked the Social Democrat rapporteur. I think it is necessary to give thought to the fact that the possibility of exemption is being removed at a time when there is a great deal of concern that we will actually have more residential areas covered by the ghetto regulations. As I said, all the consultation parties are opposed to the proposal. The municipalities do it, the day-offers managers do it, the teachers' associations do it, the parents' national association does it, even the Danish Industry Association seldom do I seek wind from the Danish Industry's response to the proposal. So I would really hope that when we round the debate, the Minister can say that the massive criticism of the proposal has been listened to and withdrawn. It is possible that at some point the government will think it would be opportune to look at a derogation, but I really think it would be wise to recognise that the chosen time is almost the worst possible time. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430124508	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430124513	Thank you and thank you to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. It is quite true that when you read the consultation answers, you can see that the basics are negative across the board. I also said at the outset that we in the Left really do not think it should be necessary for us to stand here with this bill. But if you look at the answers to the hearings, you can see that the criticism is different. And when the Enhedslisten's rapporteur now highlights, for example: The Danish Industry's hearing answer, or you could also take the private institutions' consultation answer, is basically about wanting to have the freedom to make the composition yourself. And that is probably where we look at it differently politically. Because we do not believe that it is possible to ensure that children get Denmark under the skin and that good integration policy can be ensured if Danish friends are never made into Danish homes throughout their upbringing, or Danish culture and Danish standards and values are so brought in. And that's why freedom is about being able to make the composition. If, as we do, we do away with the provisions of the ghetto package, it is to ensure that the children are safe. And I just wonder where the Enhedslist basically stands. Enhedslisten believes that it is healthy to have institutions where 99 per cent. or 100 per cent. of the children have a different ethnic background than Danish? Does Enhedslisten believe that it benefits integration in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200430124628	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430124630	No, we do not think that is beneficial to integration. We believe that it is very sensible to work towards greater diversity in our institutions. What lies simply in the legislation adopted under the previous government was, of course, that the way it would be resolved is to move children to day-care institutions other than the institutions in the area where they live, solely because of their postal code, or simply because their parents have chosen to settle in a given residential area. And busting children around to institutions that are not in their immediate environment, because their parents have settled in a certain residential area, we simply do not think that is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430124717	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430124718	No, and that is where we basically have different views on it. Because we do not think that the ghetto formation and the parallel societies, which we unfortunately see in a number of places in Denmark, are beneficial either for society as a whole or for the people who live there and who never really get a foothold in Danish society, learn Danish and speak Danish in everyday life. And for many of the children, the parents outside the labour market and they get from them are basically never the chance to get the full package of freedom opportunities and education and other things that Danish society has to offer. And in relation to the question of being busted around, I just want to say that I really think that there are many parents who love to put their children on a bus and go out to the forest children's garden. So can the Enhedslisten's rapporteur not just say what is so negative about thinking in institutional forms other than those that are stationary?
ParlaMint-DK_20200430124809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430124810	It may be good to have children in forest children's gardens. I've had the pleasure myself. It's been a few years. It was a very good arrangement. I lived in the city, and you were driven out around Hareskoven. It was a fine arrangement, but I chose it myself. It wasn't the case that others went in and said that you live at Nørrebro, but we think your child should go to a forest nursery out at Hareskoven. And that is the basic problem here, in other words, that parents should be deprived of the right to put their child in a daycare centre where they live. It is unreasonable to parents, and it is not least unreasonable to the children in the given residential area to force them away from the comrades and friends they may have in their vicinity.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430124856	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430124905	Thank you. As part of the showdown with parallel societies, the then VLAK government in May 2018 concluded an agreement with S, Radical Left and SF for a better distribution in daily offers, i.e. as an element of the effort. The agreement meant that from 1 January 2020 no more than 30 per cent could be included. children from vulnerable residential areas in each day institution. At the same time, the agreement decided to grant a derogation which would help to ensure that municipalities and day-to-day services, which had particular difficulty in meeting the requirements, could have a slightly longer phasing-in of the rules, based on the fact that over the last few years a number of municipalities have launched a large number of measures to help change the housing structure of the vulnerable housing areas. Since 1 January 2019, municipalities and day care institutions have been able to apply to the Ministry of Children and Education for a temporary derogation from the requirement for better distribution in day care. Against this background, it now appears that the Minister has pursued a lax integration policy and has granted exemptions to 2,775 children in 45 day care institutions. It is a figure which shows that the Minister has been generous with the derogations and has had difficulty in pursuing a strict integration policy, which now means that with this bill the Minister needs the parties of the Folketing to help stop the derogations. I think it is really a pity that we have to stand here today, but it is obviously necessary because the Minister has not been more strict or critical, depending on what words are now to be used in relation to integration policy, so this bill will be necessary. We, the Conservatives, then choose to support the bill, as we are concerned about what it would look like to be forward-looking if we did not support the bill. Finally, I would like to say that I think it is a rather unfortunate approach to the municipalities that this bill has not been submitted in consultation prior to the submission. The fact that it has not been submitted for consultation, as it is written, has been to ensure that no requests for exemption were made because it is announced that the exemption will be abolished. I think that is a rather awkward approach to cooperation with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430125150	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430125157	Thank you. Not long ago, we in the Danish Parliament debated a proposal which allowed for the compulsory distribution of high school pupils in secondary schools, and now we are dealing with the strengthening of a law which does the same in the field of day-to-day provision. And that is quite the wrong approach to the massive problems we have in Denmark and in the so-called ghetto areas, because for too many years too many people have been allowed to come here mainly from Muslim countries. These are people who do not share our values and who do not adapt to Denmark either. We should not accept the compulsory distribution of inappropriate foreign children in well-functioning Danish daily services, nor should we accept that well-functioning Danish children are forced into a day offer in a so-called ghetto area. We should not accept this patching-up solution which hampers the free choice that Danish parents have, both to choose to choose from and to choose from in the day-off area. Instead of making patchwork solutions over and over again, we should solve the problems of foreigners from scratch and not leave the bill for 40 years of misguided alien politics in the nursery. Integration is a personal responsibility. Foreigners must support themselves, and criminal foreigners must be deported consistently and after the first sentence. These are some of the concrete and very simple measures that will solve immigration policy from the bottom up, and that is what we must do, because then many of the so-called ghetto problems solve themselves. New citizens cannot support the forced distribution of Danish young people to immigrant gymnasiums. Nor can we support this proposal, which strengthens the law which allows Danish children to be transferred to immigrant children's gardens or vice versa. We don't support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430125346	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance. It's sir. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430125353	Thank you. One of the most important initiatives taken by the government and the Folketing in the last parliamentary term was, in my view, the legislative package that took action against parallel societies. After all, it was triggered by a recognition that we cannot continue to talk about generations. It can be accepted that we are talking about a second generation migrant, i.e. that we are identified in this way. But when you get to the point where you say third-generation immigrants, there is a problem, because then it is in relation to the grandparents who came to the country at the time, and it is the grandchildren who have not taken up the new home. What formed the basis for the start of work on creating a parallel society package was, after all, a recognition that the linguistic and educational progress of the third generation, which was growing up, was very, very limited. They were so scarce that it did not seem that the so-called third generation would make progress in relation to the second generation and the first generation in relation to catching up with the school gap that has been observed and can be seen. The problems were such that we looked into a situation with many children who came to start in a Danish school without being able to speak Danish, and thus never would make up for the distance they were already behind at the beginning. That is why the initiative was taken to make this package of legislation, and that is why, of course, we are very serious about the fact that as many exemptions have been granted from the 30% requirement as is the case. It's absolutely true what New Citizens say: it's not a perfect solution to do things this way. But the thing is that if you can't Danish when you start in a Danish school, you'll never catch up with your educational and performance deficit, and it will of course be difficult to act as a citizen of Denmark. It really makes sense in the expression exclusion in a very, very unpleasant way. So once all these exemptions have been granted, you can say that, and Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby is right in saying that the rules that were intended as a cat member have become a two-way front door or a barn door, or how to put it. In any case, this exemption has become far too easy. It has, of course, been a consequence of the fact that in practice the intention of the parallel society package and the intention of the legislators have simply been circumvented, and that is obviously not acceptable. That is why it is right that exemption is being abolished now, and this is, of course, a legislative proposal which we support in the Liberal Alliance. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430125714	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And so the trip has come to the Minister for Children and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430125722	Thank you. I would also like to start by dwelling on the reason why we made this legislation, because it is not going to be the last time we deal with legislation in this parliamentary term, when we have to decide on the distribution of either school pupils, high school pupils or kindergarten and crèche children. Because, in the opinion of the government, this is one of the most important things we can do if it is the case that we both have to put an end to parallel societies, but also give all children in our society proper cards on hand. So simply give them some cards on hand to break the negative social heritage and allow both our institutions, but also our schools and youth educations, to walk on the two legs they are set in the world for: on the one hand, to teach the children some things of a purely academic nature when they come to school, but on the other hand, to form whole people who must be able to enter our society with knowledge of all the ends and edges of our society and with some cards on hand, which are not given alone by the home situation one comes from, where parents can have very different backgrounds in relation to giving their children what they need in life for them to be able to cope with. That is why, in my view, the rules of distribution, in relation to how we are putting our nursery, crèches, schools and youth education together, are absolutely crucial. So we will come back to that many times. What we are discussing here today is the granting of derogations. And there I would like to say that what is assessed by the lawyers is that if you had chosen not to grant exemptions, it would have been and this sounds incredibly legal, because that is what it sounds like when you ask the lawyers about it, contrary to the principle of administrative law, prohibiting discretion. And that is why we need to change the legislation here today. In other words, the way that has been managed is based on the legislation adopted in the agreement on which it was based and on legislation made by the previous government. I think it was right to make the derogation, and I myself have been concerned about the treatment of these exemptions, because I have had a wish that we did not grant more exemptions than what was necessary in relation to the derogations provided for in the legislation. But it's just to say, in relation to this, that a barn gate should have been opened that then that barn gate would have been made under the previous government. I also think that is a wrong description of what I would like to say. I believe that some exemptions have been granted which have been needed in order to make the overall plans that have been out there work with this requirement. I do not think, on the other hand, that there is a need to give more. So when I propose that the derogation be removed, it is because I believe that the municipalities have now had time to look into the fact that the legislation is as tight as it has become and have therefore also had the opportunity to take the measures needed to avoid being in a situation where things fall down on their ears. So I think we have given them the reasonable line to take and no more than what I think is needed. But it is just to say to this that a barn gate has been struck, that what is legally assessed is simply that it would not have been in accordance with law and regulation if it were so that in the examination of applications a line had been drawn in which municipalities and day-care institutions could not obtain exemptions if they met the three criteria laid down as the basis for granting derogations. So even if the bourgeois side is trying to make it sound like it's something that's been made up under this government, it's something that has been a basis for agreement that we've made together, and then there's been a legal basis, and that's what has been managed on the basis of. And it would have been contrary to the principle of administrative law to prohibit discretion if no derogations had been granted. So when I say that we are abolishing the opt-out here, it is simply that we have now got the practical opportunities to make it go up. And then I think that the basis for the agreement has been provided, and then the consideration for us to make it work in reality is also provided. And then it must be the case that the intentions of the legislation are fully implemented, namely that there should be no more than 30% coming from vulnerable residential areas. Thank you for the support of the parties that have chosen to back up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430130217	Thank you, Minister. There are a number of brief comments to the Minister and the first is from Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430130224	Thank you. I have a few questions for the Minister. After all, the minister says that if the law had been administered differently, it would be a rule of law. Can the Minister not tell us why it has been necessary for the Minister to have examined each application on a case-by-case basis and to have a dialogue with the municipalities, and also to make political judgements and decisions on these derogations? Because if what the Minister is saying is correct, namely that we should not put estimates under the rule, then there was no reason for the Minister to have a single political case. And that is what has been the case in relation to the many derogations that have been granted. If you look at the exemption list, you will also be able to see Odense, Esbjerg, Randers, Copenhagen and Høje Taastrup on the list just to mention some of them. These are some of the places where we have some of our most challenged parallel societies. Some of the places the Minister has chosen to grant ten-year derogations. I would also like to ask the Minister: why has the Minister deemed it necessary to grant 10-year derogations and not, for example, to grant exemptions? Two-year-olds with the possibility that the exemption clause could then have been used two years later if things had not normalized? Why has the Minister chosen to send the message to children in those areas that for ten years they should not benefit from the initiatives of the ghetto package?
ParlaMint-DK_20200430130339	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430130341	The fact that I myself took part in the proceedings has in fact two reasons. One is that, to put it quite bluntly, I was completely new minister when I had to deal with these things. That is to say, I would like to see how the specific procedure was carried out, and I think it was obvious here that there was a relatively complex procedure. In other words, I would have an insight into how it worked in concrete terms in the Ministry's machinery spaces in connection with the proceedings. And then I knew the deal in advance because I had negotiated it myself. Therefore, I had a relatively good knowledge of what kind of legislation was to be administered, and therefore I thought it was a relatively ideal place as a new minister to get a sense of how it worked. That was one reason. The second reason was that, precisely because I was a new minister, I was worried that I missed something, compared to how relaxed or how tight one could go to it. As a new minister, I was not aware of whether the cut could then be put somewhere that I would not be satisfied with if it were. And what's been my starting point, and that's because this is one of the things I care about most is that you managed this as tightly as possible. And as a brand-new minister, it is extremely difficult to understand the question: can one lie in one direction or the other, or how does this procedure take place? So that's the choice I made, and after that, I'm really glad I did. Because you get a lot of nuances when you get into the engine room. So I certainly don't regret it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430130505	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430130507	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister for his reply, which, in fact, emphasizes precisely that there is a huge discrepancy in what the Minister is replying to when she says that there has been a single political case for each case, while at the same time the Minister says that it is not possible to make estimates under the rule and that in this way it is quite uniform how the exemptions were granted. It merely underlines that it has been a political process and that it is a political one. It is clear that when you start by being lenient, there is equality for the principles of the law, which means that you also have to be lenient all the way through. And that's really, really too bad. I have another question for the Minister, and this concerns the consultation response of the National Association of Municipalities, where they point out that they believe that there is an outstanding financial balance of 400-600 million. kr. in proportion to the costs involved. And I would like to hear the Minister's comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430130559	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430130600	Thank you. I think we need to have the nuances on this, and we can do so in committee if the rapporteur so wishes. But what is said in relation to estimates under rule is that we could not have chosen not to grant exemptions. In other words, we must manage on the basis of the rules that exist, and that means that if they comply with the rules, there must be a derogation. I would say that, compared to the fact that, as a minister, you stay miles away, among other things. For fear of getting this kind of question and I wouldn't recommend anyone who gets in the situation of becoming a minister to do I think it was all worth it, namely to sit down and see how it works inside the engine room. It is also my clear view that if I would have taken it too far in one direction or too far in the other direction, then we have an official duty to say that we should not, because there are rules and legislation. So there's a framework for what you can and what you can't do. And in this context, I have been told that what was not possible was to say that there should be no derogations, because it was in the legislation that if you lived up to these rules, exemptions should be granted. Now I have proposed that the legislation be changed, and I am pleased to be supported for that. So the law introduced by the bourgeois government is now changing so that it is not possible to grant exemptions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430130717	Thank you. Time is pretty much out of date. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430130723	Thank you very much, President. I am actually a little curious about what the Minister started by saying, and I must be honest and say that I got chills when the Minister mentions this here with forced distribution. It has been mentioned in the field of high school, now the legislation on it is being tightened up in the area of day-care, and there will certainly be more legislation on compulsory school distribution as well. Can the Minister clarify what the Minister means by that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200430130754	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430130755	It's just before I get really relieved if New Citizens get chills on this very question, I'd like to say. Because then there's something that suggests that I've hit pretty much right. Indeed, we have the view from the government that it is a very good idea if you live in Denmark, that you get to know the Danish rules and standards, and that you participate in the communities that are, whether educationally or in the labour market. Because we believe that this is the way to become the best possible citizen of society. I would therefore like to say that I do not actually understand New Citizens' desire that you should not be part of the community when you live in Denmark. I think it should be quite straight forward that when you are here, there are the rules and standards that we have here and that we have together: you participate in the labour market, you participate in educational institutions and you get to know the society that you are a part of. In other words, I do not really understand the desire for segregation that lies in the chills of New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430130856	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430130858	It was a very long answer where there was not really an answer to anything other than that the minister in this way confirms that the minister of course represents the position that all Danes and all those who live in Denmark are the property of the state, while in New Citizens we are in favour of the Danes being allowed to decide for themselves. It's an ideological difference. We believe that it is the children of the parents and that it is the free choice of the parents that should apply. It is all about being able to adapt as a Danish family and to be able to do so to a much greater extent than today. It is also very much about having a free choice when it comes to day care, school, high school, etc. It's about the free choice. So could the Minister not lift the veil a little too, given that the Minister has had these draft legislations both in the field of high school and now as a tightening up of what comes in the area of day-to-day provision? Will Danish families be deprived of their free choice again?
ParlaMint-DK_20200430130958	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430131000	After all, there is no free choice, if that is the way a school is composed is flabby. You can't change that as an individual parent. That is something that we must change together. This means that the free choice exists in the New Citizens' world only for certain people who live in certain areas where, by chance, there is a school that one would like to have one's child walk on. There have been school districts in Denmark for incredibly many years. And it has been because there is a common recognition that if there are no school districts and if one does not fundamentally go in from the school system and decide how the pupils distribute it may well be that there is free choice to try to enter another school and that there is free choice to choose a free school, then it will only be a free choice for some, because one cannot change the composition that exists as an individual. For us in the government, the school has two objectives: First, the school aims to teach the children skills. It can be Danish and mathematics, and what we have out there. The second objective is therefore to make them whole citizens. It requires you to be with each other across our society. That cannot then be provided in the model proposed by Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430131114	Then it's mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430131117	Now, after all, the bill has been tabled 14 days after the closure of the country's institutions due to the corona crisis, and I would like to hear: has the Minister and the government not considered how the crisis will affect the non-profit housing areas? Would that not be the case, is it not the Minister's view that we can have a number of new residential areas which, as a result of the crisis, will be included in the definition of vulnerable residential areas? And would it not be the Minister's expectation that, for this reason, we will have considerably more institutions that will have problems respecting the 30% ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20200430131158	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430131200	I mean, there is absolutely no doubt that we are in an extremely difficult situation. And that is to say, we are also in a situation where starting to speculate about how the overall change in our society is going to be is something I simply do not dare. Because we're in the middle of a global pandemic, and we've never seen it before. As far as the scope of any of this is concerned, we know that the last time we tried the same thing was during World War II. That is to say, I do not actually dare to speculate about what this situation is that we are all in. However, I would like to say that this is in line with what the rapporteur said earlier. That is, the fact that we are facing a crisis, and the fact that there are more people who seem sadly to be in situations where things are difficult to get together and where people can be more socially exposed than in the past, for me stresses the need for us to mix. In other words, as the Social Democrat rapporteur said earlier, I and we, as a government, feel that being together in the communities across the social divides that are and that the more vulnerable you are, the more you need to be with others who are not in the same situation. So, in my opinion, the need to mix children and to decide on the mix-up of children and pupils will be greater when social exposure increases.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430131313	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430131315	I understand that the Minister will not tell us how things are going to turn out. I'll be careful about that myself. I just think that one might have a thought that if we have 100,000 more unemployed in the period from the legislative proposal to this one, then it can go in a quite wrong direction. In fact, I would just like to hear from the Minister about the force majeure clause mentioned, that if there are a number of institutions or individual institutions burning down or there are major floods, then an emergency provision can be applied. If there are now many non-profit housing areas covered by the definition of vulnerable residential areas, would that be a force majeure in relation to making emergency provisions in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200430131400	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430131403	In fact, I find that difficult to answer, I would like to say. I have also looked at exactly the words about the force majeure provision, and I doubt how far it extends. But yes, I believe that the fact that you are in a global pandemic will make most people say that this is a force majeure situation. But it's a guess. Whatever you put into it, I shall not be able to say. But I would like to say one thing, and that is that I am of the opinion that the children are better off getting mixed up. This means that, on the back of abolishing this derogation application, we will not get much out of making the force majeure provision, i.e. if what it is all about are some situations that I believe most people would be able to resolve with, for example, the forest children's garden option. So in response to the question of whether it is possible to send someone on a bus somewhere else, I would say that this is what we have to do in a force majeure situation. Just to give a pointer on how I will accept it as a starting point, I would clearly prefer a bus where children are linguistically stimulated among other children.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430131504	Thank you. It's gonna be a while. Here you go, Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430131509	Thank you. I would like to hear the Minister: does the Minister think that it is reasonable that one of the municipalities which has applied for exemption at some point while they have been on the ghetto list and which, because the ministry is taking so long to process the application, should actually be smoking off the ghetto list and, when the application is then examined, be refused their application? If this bill goes through, they can't even search anymore. It is not the case that because you are no longer on a ghetto list it is a residential area that on and off has been of the ghetto list, we have some of them in Denmark, including in my own municipality. So what is the Minister's position on this? Is that fair compared to the municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20200430131604	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430131606	It can be said that we have followed what are the rules in force in relation to how to deal with it. And I think I'm gonna have to come back in writing instead of standing here and maybe going to trial. So I would really ask that we be allowed to take it more directly so that we take it here in concrete terms. What we have done is to deal with the current rules on who is on the ghetto list when. Of course, it can be said that the fact that someone is flaking in and out of a ghetto list can have an impact on whether it is even relevant for someone to maintain a derogation application because it is only the vulnerable residential areas to which this legislation relates. This really reflects another problem that we have not solved yet, namely that we have a more broad desire for it, I think the Conservative People's Party has also to make a good mix that reflects the composition of the population and where it with vulnerable residential areas, which is linked to certain addresses, is because that is what could be done, and that is what could be approved. But it's probably not an ideal model for how best to get the kids mixed up. There is a technique in which I believe that has been the challenge in this matter. But I'd like to come back more precisely in forms other than this one.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430131721	Thank you. Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430131724	Thank you. It's just a comment on it, and I think it's fine. But it's also a bit too bad that I can see that with city glasses you can quickly feel double cheated because now, if this bill is going through, it is completely closed compared to what you actually were looking for and then haven't gotten because it took some time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430131750	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for anything. The debate is closed. Isn't that what I'm supposed to say, or how? ) Yes, the Minister is certainly supposed to reply. I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430131801	I thought there might be something, but the whole thing about standing out of your place and talking is a little odd at all. Nor do I see the President standing up, and I regret that. I think it is the deadline that is at stake here, if I have understood the question. But I am actually a little unsure about what the question is about, so I think we should come back to it. But if what is the case is that someone has gone off the ghetto list and has therefore no longer been relevant to seeking, and then they get back on it, but come on the other side of it and the derogation has been removed, then you have to say that the deadlines are deadlines. In other words, obsolescences, deadlines and everything else always give them immediate pre- and post-problems. But let's get back to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430131840	It is good that we can be a little indulgent with each other in these strange times. However, no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430131907	Before we start the debate, I should like to point out that the Bureau has decided to change the way in which the debate is conducted. The amendment means that all speeches, including ministerial speeches, rapporteur speeches and brief remarks, will be taken from the seats. In order to prepare the minutes, it is very important that we do not start talking until the red ring on the microphone lights up and, as usual, we will be able to see the remaining speaking time at the bottom right of the voting panel. The debate is open. Sir. Orla Sea, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430131948	Thank you. Unfortunately, Thomas Jensen has become ill, so I'm a substitute for Thomas Jensen for this first reading. We are embarking on an area where we are about to look at brave new worlds, namely the whole drone area. This has so far been a national matter until 2019, when the European Commission adopted two regulations regulating the drone area. These are two regulations, one relating to drone flying and the other to product requirements and market control of drones. The regulation on drone or drone operations provides for modern and standardised rules for drone flying across the EU. Perhaps it could be said here that this regulation lays down a framework for the common rules on the carriage of goods by road for drone. One of the major changes is the introduction of the regulation, the categorization of drone flights according to the risky nature of the flights compared to causing damage to third parties. You operate in three categories. The first category is an open category which includes low-risk drone flights for third parties and small drones are included in this category. Flights must follow a set of well-defined rules on the visibility of the drone to the drone master. The second category is a specific category and that category includes the more advanced drone flight, where e.g. fly with larger drones or cargo with the drone or other more risky drone flight. That drone flight is more complex. It is closer to humans or buildings or takes place outside the visibility of the drone master, and it then requires authority approval on the basis of a detailed risk assessment. The last category is a certified category. That category includes drone flying where there is now hold on! At present, no rules have been adopted for this category, and the traffic rules for these are not included in the Regulation. It is expected that the requirements for these drone flights will be equivalent to those applicable to manned civil aviation. The second regulation, which deals with a number of product requirements for drones, will, in our opinion, help to improve the quality of drones and hence the safety of their use. The Regulation also requires Member States to monitor the drones placed on the market in that State. For us, these are a number of sensible provisions that make us pave the way a little more for the brave new world and get things right about it. So we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430132319	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Christian Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430132326	Thank you. After all, the draft law we are discussing today helps to adapt the Danish rules on drones, which are being implemented in accordance with adopted EU regulations, so that there is better harmonisation in the drone area. And the draft law proposes to repeal the current traffic rules for drone flights in order to be regulated in the future at EU level. In this context, the new EU rules allow Denmark to establish geographical zones for increased or reduced drone flying and therefore also contain provisions allowing for a national definition of the geographical boundaries for the use of drones. However, there are some areas which have not been defined by EU legislation, for example. rules on the protection of privacy, liability insurance requirements, public security matters, police, defence and preparedness, natural and environmental protection. However, it is possible for the rules to be adapted to the areas, so that national self-determination can continue to be clarified and thus exploited. Finally, it is also proposed that a number of regulations on the market control of drones, as a result of EU rules, should be implemented at national level. Overall, the Left is in favour of the bill, as drone technology has developed at a high speed and has a high growth potential and many business applications. And this is because drones have a high value for society because drones can solve a wide range of tasks cheaper, faster and more environmentally and climate-neutral because of their low energy consumption and CO2 emissions compared to traditional aircraft and helicopters. So the use potential for drones is large and still untapped, and therefore a revision and adaptation of EU rules in the drone area seems natural. In this context, however, I would like to ask the Minister of Transport to look through the drone rules, since we in Denmark have already drawn up a set of rules in this area, and I remember this very well, because I myself, as Minister of Transport, was involved in negotiating it with the rapporteurs. That is why I would like to hear the Minister at a consultation or a negotiating meeting, or whatever we can come up with together, whether we can just have a political discussion about the use and application of them in relation to the content of the draft law, which allows us to apply the Danish drafting of the drone rules at national level. That is what we did back then, in other words we gathered together and talked about privacy and so on. And I think it was a good arrangement, and yes, I have to say that it was actually at the request of the then opposition that we did it, because it was the start of a consultation where we sat and discussed it and said: this is really hard to get under the skin; what do we do? I think we need to have a good talk about that. I just want to hope that the Minister will do it just like last time, so that we can meet. Because it is absolutely certain that we need rules, including for privacy. And in those words, we in the Left will just say that we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430132630	Thank you. The next one is sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430132635	Thank you. Denmark has, of course, been one of the pioneer countries in drone technology, and I think that on today's occasion, when we have such a relatively uncomplicated bill like this, we should remember to look a little backwards and look at the initiatives that we have put into the sea both in terms of research and in terms of industry in recent years. It is not least in relation to the development of Beldringe Airport at Odense, which has shown that new jobs and new businesses can be created both within the drone industry as a whole. As drones have been developed, it has proved that they can be used for more and more things. Some may also use them for some negative things. There have been suggestions that the IRS could use them to come around and look in the backyard. That was when we had the tax discussion about whether people had to get into people's land. I guess it was just going too far. But drones can be used for almost anything you want. They are also used in a purely defence way. So there's a lot of places you can use them. As far as the legislative proposal is concerned, it is right that we should, of course, create rules on traffic which may also apply across borders. But I also think it is important to make it clear that, with these changes, we still have a hand in dealing with the special Danish conditions we have in relation to our being able to make test flights, etc. It is still possible to practise this, as is done today at Beldringe Airport, for example. The Danish People's Party is in favour of the bill. I would like to say now, just to reassure the Minister, that we do not consider it necessary to come to a conciliation on this bill. I could find many other places where it was more urgent, for example. About the infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430132829	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430132833	Thank you. Like the other rapporteurs, the Radical Left can also support the bill. This is, of course, a good example of the development of technology, and that is why the regulation, which is decided here and at EU level, must follow suit. Denmark has been ahead here. It is fine for the Radical Left that we now see that EU legislation is also coming in in this area, so that we have appropriate and common regulation in this area. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430132858	Thank you. The next one is sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430132902	SF also participated a few years ago in the drafting of the first law, for it is both good and necessary to regulate drone flights. It offers some good opportunities for society, and it also offers some opportunities to expand and create new jobs for good, innovative Danish companies, among others. Some on North Funen. But there is also the fact that the area is constantly expanding with new challenges, and that is why, of course, we must also keep up with legislation that suits reality, and it is absolutely necessary that international rules be agreed and that Denmark become part of EU rules. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430132946	Thank you. Now it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430132951	Thank you. Since our usual rapporteur in this area, Mr. Henning Hyllested, who cannot be here, I will make his point of view here and I hope that I will be able to hit his vote as well as possible. The legislative proposal here is based on the EU harmonisation of the drone sector, which is now taking place with the implementation of a few EU regulations in this area. EU harmonisation is not usually something that we are completely silly about in the Enhedslisten, and we also voted against the negotiating mandate for which the then government had drawn up and sought support. A majority of parties then supported the government. At the time, we did not think that EU regulation was necessary, and we think, in the context of EU harmonisation of the drone area, that it should be included in the picture, whether it is cross-border or what it is. We still have that view: drone flying is essentially something that takes place within the country's borders, and it should therefore be a national matter to regulate drone flying. In the Enhedslisten, we have the approach to the implementation of EU directives and regulations that once we have voted against the mandate in the European Committee, we will look at the substance of the legislative proposal that then implements it and look at the concrete content. We recognise that the draft law is to a large extent continuing a number of the provisions which are currently contained in the aviation law, not least those which are actually left to national regulation in the regulations. However, at the time, in 2017, we were quite critical of some of the provisions introduced in the Aviation Act to regulate drone flights in Denmark so critical that we ended up voting yellow to the proposal. The shortcomings that we pointed out at the time have not been corrected in the EU regulation, and hence not in the legislative proposal here, perhaps even on the contrary. The distinction between urban and open country flights, as laid down in the current regulations, is hereby abolished. Under the current regulations, it is only for professional purposes that we can be allowed to fly in urban settlements, but according to the new regulations, everyone can fly with drones where it must be if they meet in our eyes quite poor training requirements. We think this is quite disastrous. Nor does the implementing regulation correct the shortcomings in weight limits and age requirements and is, in general, a rather incalculable document introducing a multitude of classes, categories and sub-categories, and the requirements for drone flying appear unclear with wide interpretations, and they are very difficult to control for the authorities. On the contrary, in the Enhedslisten, we think we should be extremely vigilant when new technology is developed and put into use. There are clear issues, both about monitoring and about privacy, that are not adequately resolved with this bill. We could hear other rapporteurs mention this too, and it may be that there will be a successor to it here. The Enhedslisten maintains its line from 2017 and from the mandate of the European Committee of the Regions, and we must state that we are not crazy about this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430133250	Thank you. And the next one, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430133256	Thank you very much. The proposal provides for the abolition of the current traffic rules for drone flights, as they will be regulated in the future at EU level. The EU rules allow Denmark to establish geographical zones for increased or reduced drone flying, and the proposal therefore provides for the national definition of the geographical boundaries for the use of drones. Many tasks, as my colleague from the Left has also said, are solved better and cheaper for Danish business, which is good, and I am sure that our Funen developers of drones will also have opportunities for increased exports. We in the Conservative People's Party support the proposal and look forward to the committee reading, where we will also work to continue to ensure privacy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430133340	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430133344	Thank you very much, President. As a starting point, this bill is something that we are not so fond of in New Citizens, namely this one with the European Union that goes in and harmonises. In this particular area, you could say that sometimes it makes sense. However, I also share some of the concerns raised by previous rapporteurs. There are some questions that need to be answered and some things that need to be resolved before we can finally back this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430133420	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430133425	We are dealing with the transposition of EU legislation into Danish law, and there it is often the case that either the EU knows its border or the EU does not know its border. We think the balance has been kept here. We believe that the draft law reflects the fact that the European Union regulates what is of European relevance, which adds value to the industry and to those who want to fly drones, so that this is what is regulated at EU level and then leaves it to national legislation to do things that make sense to do nationally. That's why we can back the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430133503	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Transport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430133507	Thank you, President, and also thanks to the rapporteurs for the overwhelmingly positive reception of the proposal. The present draft law amending the Air Transport Act is, after all, a secondary effect of the European Commission's adoption of two regulations regulating the drone sector across the European Community. The aim of the draft law is firstly to ensure the implementation of certain EU rules in this area, including the implementation of market controls on the product requirements that will apply to the drones of the future. It goes without saying that this means that the internal market will also work in this area, thereby ensuring effective control over compliance with the product requirements for drones laid down in this regulation. The draft law supplements the Regulation on product requirements and market accounts in the drone sector, in particular in relation to the designation of who is to carry out market controls on drones. At the same time, the draft law repeals the national rules on drone flying within and outside an urban area, and this distinction will no longer be relevant since the drone operations regulation sets out the rules for drone flying in the future. The repeal of the rules of the Aviation Act will create regulatory harmony between EU law and national law. Secondly, the draft law makes use of the national scope to lay down national restrictions, that is to say, what can be flown by drones, and to implement certain additional rules on drone flying. This concerns, for example, the possibility of establishing rules on the protection of privacy and the protection of sensitive natural areas, etc. The draft law thus provides for powers to lay down rules for the protection of privacy, as well as the protection of sensitive natural areas and special buildings and areas. In addition, the implementation of the EU regulation on drone operations allows zones to be established, i.e. areas with special rules for drone flights. Areas may be restricted areas, for example over a city centre, where drone flying can be banned to ensure citizens' privacy. Areas where more relaxed rules apply to drone operations may also be established. Thirdly, the draft law provides for the possibility of establishing an obligation for the drone master to be responsible, and that is quite essential. The draft law creates uniform rules for drone flying across European countries. The drone sign, the driving licence for a drone driver, will be the same across European countries, making it easier for the individual to fly in our neighbouring countries, as the rules for flying will thus be the same. At the same time, the European Commission is working on rules for systems to technically support drone flights outside the drone driver's visual range. These systems will support cargo with drones so that the full potential of the drones can be exploited. In relation to some of the comments that have been made, I should first like to say to Mr Seligman. Hans Christian Schmidt, Left, I fully agree with the comments on the great potential for growth and the high value for society in the drone field. It is also clear that I would like to make myself available at any time for a political discussion of what may be relevant and, of course, also in this area. However, I have to say that, in concrete terms, in relation to the provisions for the protection of privacy in relation to drone flights, which are negotiated with the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice, the intention is that the current rules on the protection of privacy remain unchanged, and I think that is very important. But that is why we can still easily discuss the rules, even if they work as intended. I think some of the other rapporteurs have also indicated the importance of this. So, of course, we will have that set up. Whether it becomes virtual or in physical form, we have to find out in practice. To Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, I would like to say once again that I fully agree with the excellent view that Denmark has just been a pioneering country in the drone sector. I believe that in many ways we can take joint responsibility for this. Here, too, the emphasis is placed on the fact that we also have special testing facilities, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned, among other things. on North Funen, and there I think it is essential to stress that the new rules proposed here will not, as a starting point, have a more intrusive character for operations in drone centres than today, and at the same time the regulation provides for easier approval of certain types of drone operations, because the rules allow an organisation, such as a test centre, to acquire what is called a LUC, Light UAS Operator Certificate. It is a certificate which grants the holder of the certificate authorisation and the power to approve its own drone operations, which would otherwise require authority approval, falling within the specific category. This means that larger organizations which regularly use drones in their activities, both in terms of research and commercial terms, will be able to apply for a LUC and thus make it easier to carry out their tasks and carry out various tests. I think that is a rather flexible way of working. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for the Radicals and the SF. Thank you for the comments made by Mrs Jette Gottlieb. It's nice to know that Mr. Henning Hyllested's flame speech has been reproduced with appropriate emphasis. I think that is fine and, of course, I have noted that there is consistency with what the Enhedslisten said when the mandate was to be given in the European Committee and what is now being said, as has also been said during previous legal proceedings. Thank you, too, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen from the Conservatives for the positive expressions. Of course, we will have to look at the issues in the committee's proceedings on an ongoing basis. And, of course, to Mrs Mette Thiesen, I would also like to say that we will have a look at the issue of privacy. It is clear that when you walk away from the previous approach of having a distinction between flying over an urban area or over a land zone, it is of course also a question of making a concrete assessment of what risks are in the specific areas. I think that will actually help to give some a little clearer rules than what is today. In other words, one can well imagine that there is also a private building in a rural area where it may be equally relevant that one should not photograph and film and everything else. I also think that, for example, the provisions on not flying drones too close to accident sites are quite significant, that is to say we also guarantee the part of privacy which is about the fact that if there has been a very, very serious accident, there must be no filming by private individuals or the coloured press or anything else, namely that photos must not be taken at close quarters by seriously injured people. It can be regulated that way. To Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen, I would also just like to express a complete consensus on the fact that there is precisely this good balance between European regulation and Danish regulation. So in those words I would like to thank you for the feedback and the indications and I look forward to the discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430134325	Thank you. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Transport and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430134359	The debate is open. It's again, sir. Orla Sea. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430134404	Yes, and it is again for Thomas Jensen, who is on sick leave. The purpose of the bill is to update the legal framework for the approval of vehicles, systems, components and separate technical units. The draft law therefore covers rules on vehicle approvals before being put into service in Denmark, and requirements for vehicles in which constructive changes have been made in Denmark after entry into service. The legislative proposal updates the legal framework in this area, partly because the type-approval rules are largely based on three EU type-approval regulations which apply in all Member States, including Denmark, and partly because we also have an interest in ensuring that vehicles operating on the road network in Denmark and in the rest of Europe meet all relevant technical requirements in order to support road safety and the environment. The content of the legislative proposal and the three type-approvals specifically define how vehicles or their components are to be approved by relevant bodies in the EU. This approval process includes three main actors: a manufacturer of the vehicle or its components, a technical service carrying out independent tests on manufacturers' products and an authority which, on the basis of the tests carried out by the technical service, definitively approves the vehicle. This is the legal framework for the approval of vehicles that we are discussing today. The approval process is common to all three regulations and therefore applies to new vehicles manufactured in unlimited series or in small series, specifically motor vehicles, two- or three-wheel vehicles, quadricycles, agricultural and forestry vehicles and trailers and interchangeable towed equipment. In addition, approval of individual new motor vehicles and trailers is also covered by the motor vehicle regulation. The current Danish approval processes in this area are experienced as heavy and complicated and therefore generally need an update which ensures both a uniform approval process for the benefit of the industry and the bodies that have to test and approve the vehicles and that the approval process in Denmark complies with the regulations. The Regulations on motor vehicles apply from September 2022 onwards, which is why this timeframe is used as an obvious opportunity for a general update of the Danish rules and approval processes. The draft law therefore proposes that the three-tier approval process be explicitly incorporated into the law on the approval and inspection of vehicles, also known as the law on sight. This means that technical services must be appointed in Denmark to test the vehicles of the manufacturers, and it is proposed that the Authority should carry out the task of issuing final authority approvals of the vehicles, etc. tested by a technical service. In relation to the approval of vehicles which are not covered by the three type-approval regulations, it will be up to each Member State to establish national type-approval schemes. The national approval schemes will therefore include individual approvals for new two- or three-wheel vehicles as well as quadricycles and individual approvals for new agricultural and forestry vehicles where constructive changes have been made. In this respect, the draft law proposes that an approval process be set up which runs from the approval process resulting from the regulation, that is to say. the same three-part process that I mentioned before. In relation to the national approval schemes, we establish, under Danish law, the possibility of an independent third party body to carry out testing of vehicles, etc. adapted to Danish conditions. In other words, in Denmark we are setting a legal framework for the operation of the third party body, which is more relaxed than the stricter requirements that apply to a technical service under the regulations. With these words, I must say that we in the Socialist Group support the proposal and constructively take part in the subsequent work of putting it into practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430134911	Thank you. Sir. Hans Christian Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430134916	Thank you for that, President. The draft law that we are considering today proposes that the legal framework for the rules on the approval of vehicles, etc. will be updated. It is proposed, among other things, because on 1 September a new EU type-approval regulation will enter into force. The current regulatory framework is known to be complicated while not sufficiently updated in national legislation. In addition, the basis of approval is only to a very limited extent present in Danish law. It is important that our legislation follows on from developments and ensures the best possible conditions for both traders and private owners of motor vehicles, and here we are thinking of both safety, health and the environment. By voting in favour of the legislative proposal, we will have a more simple and coherent framework that follows in time. Having said that, it is worth noting that, in addition to the above, the Ministry of Transport is also empowered to lay down rules on the payment of fees. It is difficult for the bill to fully identify the approval process and the associated costs. This is something that several trade associations and companies etc. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). That is why I must also make known concerns about the possible financial consequences of the draft law for competitiveness and about its impact on purchase prices, the committee and additional costs in connection with documents, tests and fees, considering that all vehicles should go through a process of approval. We are of course confident that the Minister of Transport will be sensible in setting guidelines for the approval process and the framework for the level of fees, but of course we would also like to have a discussion, as usual, in committee once the legislative proposal has to be dealt with. And with that, the Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430135102	Thank you. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430135107	Thank you. In relation to the proposed bill, the Danish People's Party is also immediately in favour of what the Minister of Transport has put forward today. However, there are doubts, as Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt mentioned a little. If you look at some of the consultation answers that we have received from industry actors, we can see that among other things. Agriculture & Food &amp; AutoConsult say that the law is characterised by being made too quickly, and it is thought that there is a great risk that we are doing some kind of lawlessness, in that it is forced, that is, faster than it may actually be necessary. In this connection, the Danish People's Party would certainly like answers. I am well aware that the Minister has caused the hearings to be replied to, of course. It's commented on. However, I would like the Minister to respond in writing to the concerns about the implementation of the legislative proposal itself, and to the concern about speedy implementation and haste. The second is the question from the car-vision industry, where it is said that, according to their assessment, it is absolutely detrimental to Danish competitiveness in relation to the administrative parts of the bill. I also think that this question is important to get the Minister to clarify in writing when it comes to the legislative process on this bill. However, these are the two things that I think I need to air here at first reading, and I would, of course, like to wait for the answers that we will receive from the Minister until the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430135249	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430135255	Thank you. Like the other rapporteurs, the Radical Left supports the proposal. After all, we are pre-empting that a regulation will come into force on 1 September 2020, and we are now trying to keep up with Danish legislation here. We are, of course, generally in favour of the Radical Left having EU regulation, and that is certainly true when it comes to the inspection of vehicles. We have no comment to make. We support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430135322	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430135328	Thank you. As Enhedslisten's transport rapporteur, Mr. Henning Hyllested, cannot be here today, I will just say a few words about the bill. We are basically of the opinion that it is a good thing that the overall approval procedure is now being brought together in the Danish Road Traffic Authority. It is just before you can call it a form of indictment, and we are in favour of that in principle. The many technical aspects of the draft law also clearly show that this is a jungle in which it has so far been spread across many different actors. Therefore, it is a good idea to bring it together under an independent state unit. If a single critical remark had to be made, it was evident that implementation was postponed in order to give the industry extra time to adapt to the new system, so that it will not enter into force until 1 January 2022. This is therefore a very long time in relation to so much other legislation, and so we must ask ourselves: what is the explanation for this? Is it alone to please a slightly agitated industry, or are there real arguments behind it? If there are specific areas where it is necessary for a long time, then it does not have to prevent most of it from being implemented from 1 January 2021. This is an aspect which I am absolutely convinced of, Mr President, our transport rapporteur. Henning Hyllested, will pursue the work of the committee, and I also think that the Minister of Transport may be allowed to make a few comments on this afterwards. But otherwise we immediately support the bill, and I have promised to salute from the SF and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430135519	Thank you. Then it's mr. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430135525	Thank you very much. In the Conservative People's Party, we are delighted to see harmonisation of the basis and processes for the approval of vehicles. This creates a better suitability across the EU Member States. For example, it will. make it easier to import and export vehicles due to transparency and recognition of vehicle documents between Member States. This is of great benefit to the transport industry and also to the logistics industry. We have a small fear, of course, that Danish manufacturers in vehicle conversions will be disadvantaged, as there may be longer waiting times for Danish manufacturers in vehicle and trailer conversions. We will, of course, work hard to ensure that our profession does not deteriorate in this area. I would like to say that, of course, care must be taken not to overimplement the regulations and thus create additional costs for producers, but here I am quite sure that the Minister of Transport is a reasonable enough person for this not to happen. So, with that in mind, we naturally support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430135637	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430135641	Thank you very much, President. This bill, of course, covers a number of different things that come from a regulation. A great deal of what I actually want to say has been said by my colleagues around here in the Chamber. In the new citizens we have some concerns and some questions that need to be asked and answered before we can say whether or not we support them. We have some real concerns based on some of the consultation answers that have come in. Among other things: there is Agriculture & Food, as my colleague from the Danish People's Party mentioned earlier, who clearly states that there are some unresolved issues which make it quite impossible to understand the consequences of this bill. Then there is AutoConsult, who believes that the bill is actually premature and should not be presented in its present form, and then there is BilsynsBranchen.dk, who simply believes that this proposal will significantly damage Danish competitiveness unnecessarily. That is not the kind of consultation answer that can be ignored. That is why we need answers to some of the specific questions, including with regard to the over-implementation of EU regulations, which have also been asked before in the Chamber. These are some of the things we need to get answers to before we can say whether we support the bill or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430135757	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430135801	Thank you. Here, too, we are dealing with a regulation from the European Union to be implemented in Danish legislation. This bill is more sprung, I think. Some of the elements of the proposal look very reasonable. These are harmonisations which will facilitate cross-border trade. Other parts of the bill may seem to make it more difficult for certain professions. We have also noticed that agriculture in particular complains about this bill and even thinks that it is an over-implementation of the EU regulation, i.e. that Denmark goes further than the EU demands. If it is both bad and Denmark goes further than the EU demands, then it may be difficult for us to see that we should go that way. That's why we're looking at this bill with some scepticism. I hope that during the course of the sessions the Minister may be able to change that, so that we are sure that there is no over-implementation and that it will, in substance, be better for agricultural vehicles. And then we will have to see at the third reading whether it has improved by then. Otherwise, we would probably vote against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430135919	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Transport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430135924	First of all, I would like to thank you for a good and constructive debate on this draft law, which is very technically complicated. As mentioned, the primary purpose of the draft law is to update the overall legal framework for vehicle approval, for systems, for components and for separate technical units. We do so for two main reasons. First of all, the government considers it essential that vehicles which have to operate on the Danish road network have been tested and approved by independent bodies. In this way, we ensure that vehicles meet all relevant technical requirements and thus support better road safety and a better environment in Denmark. Secondly, the approval rules are largely based on the three EU type-approval regulations detailed in the legislative proposal. This means that some vehicles will be covered by EU type-approval schemes and other vehicles will be subject to national type-approval schemes. The consequence is that the rules in this area will quickly become cumbersome and complicated if they are not uniform and manageable, as far as possible, both for the industry and for the authorities. In addition, the Danish approval rules currently do not meet Denmark's EU legal obligations. Specifically, the two type-approval regulations on two- or three-wheeled vehicles, as well as forestry and agricultural vehicles from 2013, as also stated in the draft law's comments, already apply in Danish law. The approval process resulting from the two Regulations should therefore have been incorporated in Denmark from 1 January 2016 in relation to these very vehicles. There is therefore a need for far-reaching clearance in the area of authorisation, which has unfortunately been neglected on the regulatory front in recent years. It has now been initiated under the auspices of the Danish Trade Agency, which is already in dialogue with the industry about it. This will mean that, from 1 September 2020 onwards, we in Denmark will fulfil all our obligations under the two type-approval regulations back from 2013. Furthermore, we will fulfil our obligations under the Motor Vehicle Regulation 2018 as regards the approval of motor vehicles, etc., so that EU type-approval of vehicles produced in unlimited series, EU type-approval and national type-approval of vehicles manufactured in small series and individual EU approvals can be granted. However, the part of the motor vehicle regulation which concerns national individual approvals is postponed, as Mr. Peder Hvelplund also quite rightly noted in his rapporteur's speech, and this is for the sake of ensuring the necessary time for the Danish industry to adapt to the new rules. This means that the regulation is expected to be fully incorporated into Danish law only on 1 January 2022. Sir. Peder Hvelplund asks the question whether one could imagine that it could happen at an earlier time. You can imagine everything. It could also be imagined that the rear edge of 1 September 2020 was respected. But at least now I have chosen to be accommodating to the industry which believes it needs a good deal of time and where several other rapporteurs in their rapporteur's speeches have highlighted that there are particular concerns about this having to be done too quickly. That is why I believe that the time until 1 January 2022 is good time. This means that you have a year and a half to be able to implement this whole thing. I therefore believe that we are also responding to the industry on this point. In relation to this, I can also say that the government has informed the Commission of this status of incorporation of the three type-approval regulations in Denmark. In relation to the approval of vehicles which are not covered by the three type-approval regulations, the Government considers that here too we can benefit from the approval process resulting from the regulations. It is suitable to ensure that vehicles meet all relevant technical requirements before being put into service on the Danish road network. The separation of manufacturers, technical testing bodies and final authority approval ensures the necessary impartial treatment of vehicle approvals, which is the best guarantee of road safety. That is why we are also calling for the same approval process to apply, as far as possible, to the national approval arrangements. However, it is also in the interest of the government that we organise the Danish approval schemes in a way that only burdens the industry in Denmark to the extent necessary to achieve the purpose of the rules. That is why we have listened attentively to the consultations that we received in connection with the public hearings of the draft law. Here the industry has expressed serious concern about the prospect of being subject to the new national authorisation rules as from 1 September 2020. I understand that the industry is concerned about this, and it is a great deal on top of the delays from the type-approval regulations also to have to deal with such completely new national approval schemes. That is why I have decided to postpone the issue of new national approval schemes, so that the industry will have the time to engage in proper dialogue with the Danish works council on the new rules and thus have time to adapt. However, it remains the government's objective and ambition to carry out clean-up in this area, as far as possible, as similar types of vehicle approval processes in Denmark, whether the vehicles are covered by EU or national rules, per year. 1 January 2022. I hope that with this timetable and the long time that will be given, the industry can see a way forward and will enter into constructive dialogue with the Danish Trade Authority on the very large regulatory framework to be worked through and issued in the near future. And, of course, I look forward to the day when we have a completely updated and uniform approval rule for all vehicles that ensure a high standard of road safety and for the environment in Denmark. In relation to the various comments which have been made by the rapporteurs, I would like to say to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Hans Christian Schmidt, that of course we are always happy to discuss this issue in committee. In relation to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby and I just need to find out my notes... I would like to say that the whole question of ensuring a longer implementation is mainly in order to ensure that the concerns that have been raised can be met. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, I have the answer. In relation to Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen's comment • two seconds, I just have to find my note here on this point • about among other things. to make it easier to import and export vehicles, I would like to say that I fully agree with that as well, that is to say, to have as uniform a process as possible. It may well be that we will not be in the finish line until a few years on that point, but it will all be easier with a vehicle, a unit which is typically special equipment produced for the Danish market and which some people then demand and say: Listen, could I not get to buy it for use in Germany or Austria or another EU country? It will, of course, be considerably easier at that time to export something that is aimed at the national market. This is clearly a barrier today in relation to some of these very special vehicles, which is why I hope, of course, that it will be easier. Here, too, I would just like to point out that it is new that there will be the possibility of national type-approval of vehicles manufactured in small series. And in many cases, the same type of vehicle, which is now approved individually, will then be able to be assembled into one approval, so that in such cases the manufacturer will not have to pay for the approval of each vehicle but for one approval of a vehicle type and thus also, in practice, achieve savings. This can be said to be an advantage for some of the smaller producers. I certainly hope it will be experienced as such. Of course, the concerns that have been raised will also be addressed in the committee's work. Ole Birk Olesen and from Mrs Mette Thiesen. I also hope that we can take some of this in the written procedure in committee so that we can fully and fully clarify the concerns that the rapporteurs may have, because of course we also hope on this point, as on so many other points in the work of the Danish Parliament, that we can reach as broad an agreement as possible for the sake of not least the profession. I look forward to the further examination of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430140923	Thank you. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430140938	The debate is open. Sir. Orla Sea, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430140949	Thank you. L 122, draft law on precious metals, there are several objectives. It is designed partly to modernise and simplify the precious metals law, so that we take up the 1972 International precious metals convention, and secondly to incorporate an EU regulation on minerals from conflict areas. The object of the precious metal law is to ensure that those who buy precious metals can also be sure that they are precious metals. Therefore, there must also be a verification of whether the composition of the metals meets the requirements laid down. The draft law also provides for more effective controls to be carried out with companies and for prices to be set at market conditions and to be more transparent. In addition, the draft law strengthens the ability of the Danish Security Authority to carry out risk-based control of companies, so that control focuses on companies that fraud while the many companies that live up to the social contract do not have to be bothered. Control powers are extended so that anonymous checks can be carried out in both physical shops and online shops. At the same time, the Minister of Industry is authorised to lay down rules allowing the Danish Security Authority to obtain information from companies, business and consumer organisations so that the risk-based control effort can take place on the strongest possible data basis. In addition, the bill ensures the incorporation of an EU regulation on minerals from conflict areas, so Denmark meets its international obligations in relation to introducing rules for the import into Denmark of conflict minerals such as tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold. This means that companies are required to import these metals responsibly so that supply chains do not help finance armed conflicts. It is an element in the work of addressing the underlying reasons why people are fleeing, among other things. to Europe. Thus, the draft law is part of the implementation of the part of the understanding paper which mentions that conditions in the poorest countries of the world need to be improved. At the same time, it helps to ensure that workers in conflict areas are not exploited. All in all, it is a step towards a fairer world. Social democracy can support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430141237	Thank you. The next is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430141246	This is a legislative proposal which I, as the Left's debureaucratisation rapporteur, have the pleasure of dealing with. For the Left, it is always positive when there are initiatives that simplify and improve, and this bill is intended precisely to simplify and modernise. The bill is intended to ensure that Danish consumers continue to have confidence that the jewelry they buy complies with the promised. However, the draft law also aims to simplify and modernise the current precious metals law and to comply with the requirements of the Convention on the Control and Stamping of Goods of Precious Materials. Specifically, it is proposed that the minimum quantity of platinum in a product should be adjusted in order to follow the general values of the precious metals convention, that it should no longer be the sole institutions responsible for the control task, but that more can bid for the control task and that the noble metal board should be abolished. Today, the jury meets once a year with representatives from the goldsmith trade and a representative from the Danish Security Authority. We in the Left have learned that the Joint Council of the Goldsmiths is concerned that they will be sufficiently involved when the Precious Metal Board is closed and that they are concerned that knowledge may be lost when there are more suppliers who will be able to bid for the control task. That is why, of course, we expect the Minister to live up to the stakeholder involvement promised in the consultation note, and we will ask a committee question to clarify how the Minister envisages this to be done. Another part of the bill is that an authorisation is given for the Danish Security Authority to control companies importing conflict minerals into Denmark. It is positive that the bill helps to ensure that Danish companies provide their imports of conflict minerals responsibly, while ensuring that their supply chain does not help finance armed conflicts. In general terms, the Left is in favour of the bill, which simplifies and provides fewer rules, and therefore the Left would also like to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430141452	Thank you. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430141457	Thank you. There is not so much to add in relation to the individual concerns that have been expressed. I also believe that the Minister is aware of the concerns that have been raised from the industry and that we must of course be on certain grounds in relation to knowing that it is being honoured, precisely because we are also interested in maintaining the slightly special rules, the special rules we have in relation to the industry, where it is ensured that Danish producers have higher credibility than many other countries' producers have, because we are putting these more demands on the industry and what they put in their precious metals. So we support the draft law, but we just think it is important, as the Minister speaks in a moment, that we also ensure that the industry has been included in the dialogue in relation to further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430141547	Thank you. Then the next Mrs Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430141552	Thank you. I will try not to repeat or to say what has already been examined by the bill, but I would certainly like to emphasise the importance that consumers can have confidence in the precious metals they buy • it is typically the purchase of jewelry and that they live up to the quality they are told about. Of course, consumers must have that security, both in trade in ordinary physical shops, but also in online trade, which is why it is of course also positive that the bill proposes to modernise the precious metals law. I also hope that, in addition to the fact that I think it would be good to have an answer to the question raised by Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard, and also to have it in writing for the sake of the serenity of the industry, it will be possible to look at the part that concerns control and, more specifically, the possibility of anonymous control in physical shops, in other words, a little with the consequence and delineation of that element. I certainly hope that we will be able to clarify this further there. In addition, the draft law is, of course, about conflict minerals, and we can of course also support that part, and we are positive about the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430141709	Thank you. Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430141715	Thank you. L 222 is about modernising and streamlining the applicable precious metals law. In short, it is a question of Danish consumers being able to continue to have confidence that certain jewellery contains the specific amount of precious metal that is paid for. This also applies to imports. The joint council of the goldsmiths' trade points out in their hearing the importance of a model of control by companies which do not have a name stamp. Of course it's important. This bill does not define a control model and a control level, but it is subsequently determined by the Security Authority and a legal person. We are confident that the Minister will manage this part of a close dialogue. So the SF will vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430141803	Thank you. Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430141810	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten, we support the move to improve control and compliance with guidelines for exports and imports of precious metals and conflict minerals. The current rules in this area consist primarily of voluntary schemes and, unfortunately, they have proved inadequate. That is why we support the bill, and we expect and hope that the Danish Security Authority will ensure an easily accessible material for the companies so that the rules can be complied with even better.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430141842	Thank you. Mrs. Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430141847	Thank you for the floor. Today we are dealing with a 1995 law which, in the words of the Minister, needs modernisation and which is based on an EU regulation. I have noted three things first of all: that it is a question of strengthening control and putting it out of competition and that it does not cost any further tax dollars. Check that the proposal does not place any of the companies that comply with the legislation at a competitive disadvantage than the companies that do not. Check by it; and the last one: there have been no incidents in the hearings which have not been taken into account. Check by it too. There is no doubt that in the legislative procedure we should have just dived a tiny bit more into who is actually controlling the control. In those words, however, I can already say that the Conservative People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430141932	Thank you. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430141935	Thank you. Conservatives should perhaps have changed an extra little bump whether this might cost more to the business community. And then we could have put a red cross on it, because it actually does. I find it hard to understand that it must always end up costing more to business when it comes to modernising things and leading things up to date. It says that this will lead to an increase in costs for 10 million. kr. I am just surprised that every single time we have to renew the legislation, where we say that we have to simplify and that we have to make it easier, it also says that it will be more expensive. This is one of the things I would like to have examined in this regard, namely whether we have done all we can to ensure that this does not entail extra costs for the business community. It will also determine whether we in New Citizens can support it. We may be in favour of modernising legislation, which can most often make sense, but let us now do a modernisation that does not automatically cost more money out there for business.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430142036	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430142040	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we are generally in favour of this bill, but we share some of the ambition expressed by the rapporteur of the new citizens, namely whether it is possible during the committee procedure to see whether it can be made more flexible in order to reduce some of the costs for business. We look forward to that work, and it may even be that I can be seen in the committee's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430142111	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430142114	Thank you for the positive comments on the draft law here and for the positive reception of it. It is a legislative proposal that makes it possible, as several have said, to modernise the precious metals law. Danish consumers must be able to continue to have confidence that the jewelry they buy meets the promised properties. The government wants to create security for consumers both in relation to the purchase of products in physical shops and on the Internet. With the proposal, the government will incorporate an EU regulation which requires companies to import properly, for example. tin and gold and the like from conflict areas. This means that companies in their supply chains do not contribute to the financing of armed conflicts in conflict-affected areas. The regulation on conflict minerals is directly applicable in Danish law and is not to be implemented in itself, but the Danish Security Agency needs authorisation provisions in order to control companies importing conflict minerals The bill modernises the precious metals law, among other things. by the fact that the task of control is no longer reserved for the self-serving institutions. It extends the field of companies that can be designated by the Security Authority to the task, and the bill also strengthens the control by authorising the Security Authority to carry out checks via so-called hidden identity, i.e. anonymous control in both physical shops and on the Internet, to ensure that the legislation is complied with. In addition, the Security Authority will be able to strengthen the risk-based control by extending the data base with information from other public authorities and from non-public sources. In this way, control can be better focused on those companies that do not comply with the legislation. In relation to conflict minerals, risk-based control is a prerequisite for identifying the relevant companies. The draft law is based on an EU regulation which, as a new element, will ensure that Denmark meets its international obligations in relation to the import of so-called conflict minerals. It is a question of introducing rules for the import into Denmark of minerals into companies' supply chains from conflict-affected areas and high-risk areas. Thus, companies must have a management system that can trace the supply chain back to the smelters and, in addition, it will be possible to take account of any update to the EU Regulation. This applies, for example, to the melting plants in conflict-affected areas covered. The rules on conflict minerals are therefore a step towards a fairer world, and the rules must, as far as possible, contribute to the non-utilisation of labour in conflict areas. The draft law is therefore an element of the Government's ambition, through international cooperation, to remedy, as far as possible, the conditions of workers in developing countries and at the same time address the underlying reasons why people are fleeing to Europe. The draft law must therefore ensure, overall, that companies cannot benefit from competitive advantages at the expense of consumers or at the expense of Denmark's international obligations. In other words, it should not pay to cheat on the quantities of precious metals or to exploit the labour force in the world's conflict areas. So once again, thank you for your comments and I look forward to the committee's further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430142447	Thank you. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430142501	The debate is open. Sir. Orla Sea, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430142517	Thank you. The purpose of this bill is, on the one hand, to strengthen the protection of Danish consumers and other end-users from unsafe and illegal products, including when trading online and via global platforms, and, on the other hand, to follow up the political agreement on nitrous oxide from 21 January 2020. In line with the development of global trade, it has become apparent that there is a need for a stronger approach to the control measures that are taking place with a view to... is it a quick loan?
ParlaMint-DK_20200430142602	Yeah, I'm sorry. Yes, it is. Orla Hav Sorry!). It may be so tame in the Parliamentary Chamber that we all sit and fall off a little. We look forward to normal conditions. But I would say that the rapporteur must start over with the right speech. Thank you to the awake rapporteur of the Left; that should be my task. Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430142627	I thank you very much for not having all fallen all the way to sleep. Then we'll take the quick loan. The legislative proposal that we are looking at here is about what is often referred to as quick loans, and we think of quick loans as a fine term for a product in the financial world, which is anything but fine. Who doesn't want to get involved in something that's smart and smart? However, the truth is that the same loans could easily be described as loans at usurers' interest rates. Not many people find that very flattering. Usury prices don't want anyone to pay. For many years we thought there was a law against usurers. However, it got a shot at the bow when the courts decided a case a few years ago in which ÅOP amounted to more than 700 per cent, but in the order they decided that this could not fall under the so-called usurer clause. It became the eye-opener which formed the basis for the proposal which today lies here for the first reading. The need for regulation was evidently after the court's ruling. In the old days loans at exorbitant interest rates were something that could be obtained from side street switches, thus far away from the public eye. Quick loans, on the other hand, have been announced in urban buses and other visible places where potential borrowers have been suggested that a quick loan can save their lives. However, the truth is quite the opposite: it will draw further down towards the economic abyss for the individual. In the Social Democratic Party, we are pleased and proud of the broad support of the parties of the Folketing, which we see today taking place here at first reading. 25% In this context, it should be pointed out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations has not yet been adopted. In the view of the Social Democrats, the bill here helps to clean up the economic sector and to protect citizens with a squeezed economy, both of which we think are an expression of goodness and consideration for people. That was the right speech. And we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430142916	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430142923	Thank you. I think that Mr. Orla Hav is legally excused for not being able to get around completely with the large amount of legislative proposals from the Minister of Industry, who will either ban things or impose various things on business or otherwise place a lot of restrictions and burdens on business. I also sometimes find it a little difficult to keep up, so I think the Social Democrat rapporteur is legally excused. I understand that this is a little bit about consumer protection and about preventing unbridled lending, but what is the consequence of this bill will be that it will be illegal for a Dane, a person in Denmark, to take a loan on, let's say 5,000 DKK, which will have to be paid back 1 month later to 5,500 DKK. On the other hand, it will be legal to borrow 5,000 DKK. out, to be paid back with DKK 6,500. One year later. However, I would just like to hear from the Social Democrat rapporteur how it makes consumers better to be forced to take longer and more expensive loans rather than shorter and cheaper loans. What is this expression of consumer protection?
ParlaMint-DK_20200430143021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430143022	Thank you for the question, and thank you for understanding that when there are five speeches in rap, they may just be switched around in order. Sorry! On the question of whether this puts consumers at a disadvantage or better: we are in the fortunate position that the Consumer Council has stated that the introduction of these new rules is, in their view, an improvement in the position of consumers. So that is one of the reasons we have been calling for this to be an improvement in the position of consumers in an area which has, after all, been a source for a very, very long time. Now we have arranged for it, and then we have to have a discussion and ask questions to the Minister if it is the case that New Civil... sorry, the Liberal Alliance has difficulty in seeing whether it is one or the other calculation that is going to be used in this area. I certainly see it as an advantage that we improve the position of consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430143132	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430143134	Yeah, New Citizen actually supports this bill. Understand it, the ones who can. But I can't wait to hear that, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen explains. Personally, I feel that I do not give much for what the Consumer Council thinks, because 70%. Of their time, they are concerned with limiting consumer choice, and I think that one of the poorest representatives of consumers is the Consumer Council, but leave it at that. I would just like to hear the rapporteur's own explanation of why it is better for consumers to borrow 5,000 DKK, which must be paid back over a long period of time to 6,500 DKK, than it is to borrow 5,000 DKK, which must be paid back with 5,500 DKK. One month later. I would just like to hear the rapporteur's own assessment of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430143215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430143216	I feel that if the consumer knows his conditions well and thoroughly, then the consumer also has a chance to dispose of them. The problem with what has been referred to as quick loans so far has been that consumers have been misled into completely weird practices where they have not been able to see it through. That is what we are proposing to no longer take place, whereas a loan on an enlightened basis must each decide, and the Liberal Alliance must then have an acceptance that people can also have the opportunity to choose for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430143257	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so the next rapporteur to speak is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430143303	Thank you. This is an area of short and expensive loans that we have been working on for some years now here in the Danish Parliament. I have been involved in many measures aimed at providing consumers with better safety, better information, better information, and we have tightened up the requirements of who is supervising. A large number of measures have been taken along the way • basically with the aim of ensuring that consumers were better off. The Socialist rapporteur said very precisely that we all had a view that we had a usurer clause in the penal code, but then when a sentence was passed that allowed interest of more than 700 per cent, it was probably a little difficult to say that we had an effective safeguard against excessive interest rates. And that is why we made a political agreement in the Folketing before Christmas last year, where we then took further steps. The reason why we did this is basically that too many people have ended up in financial difficulties because they have taken consumer loans, very expensive consumer loans. Unfortunately, it is also something that has a social side. There are too many young people who have put themselves in a position, among other things. Because of quick loans, the outlook for their economy in the future can be extremely difficult. Socially disadvantaged have also been over-represented in the statistics. That is why we need to continue our efforts so far with new elements in order to ensure that consumers do not take too expensive loans, which run up in everything, far too high a cost and which risk locking their economy for the future. That is why we need to take new initiatives. And the discussion has been: Was there enough in the penal code's usurer clause? There wasn't. And that is why the bill now introduces a cap on ÅOP, i.e. annual costs per cent, of 35%. on loans not secured by mortgages on immovable property and some other exemptions. But basically, it makes sense that we take action against these insane percentages. We had discussions about whether the ceiling should be in one place or another. I have also seen in this process what I think is quite reasonable and sensible loans, where the interest rate may hit 40% without I regard it as completely crazy loans. And the balance has been that we will also ensure that the Danes have the opportunity to borrow for a refrigerator if it gets off, also with a loan that does not bind consumers for too many months to come. But the compromise was 35%, and of course we stand by that. Similarly, the agreement stipulates that there will be a marketing ban in respect of loans from an ÅOP over 25 per cent. It may not be super-intentional for there to be this difference, but that was where we landed politically, and that is why we naturally stand by the agreement. On the other hand, I believe that what is in relation to the link between advertising and quick loans and gambling, whether it be knowledge games or casino games, will have an effect. There is also an important element in the fact that this applies not only to such classic loans, but also to private loan agreements, and the agreement has therefore also been followed up with action against, for example, privately-distributed loans on Facebook and other online platforms. Because we have to do this with our eyes open. It is of course no use that we are now doing better consumer protection in a market that is quality tested by the FSA and that there is proper control, that we know who you are dealing with, that it is companies that are registered and controlled and must comply with all possible legislation, if we then move consumers into something very, very dark gray, if not coal black, by borrowing from private people on Facebook, because there are already Facebook groups and there are no consumer protection at all. That is why I am glad that the agreement also ensured that there was increased control in this area, because we are quite aware that of course some people are desperate to take a loan, whatever the price is, and there is a question of cutting it off as much as possible. I would just like to end with one concern. It is in relation to some of the consultation answers that we are concerned about whether this stays completely within EU rules. The government assures us that, of course, the bill remains within EU rules, because it is the government's opinion that it does, but the government has not wanted to check it with the Commission. There, of course, we have to say that it is the responsibility of the government to ensure that it remains within EU rules. The bill ensures better consumer protection and we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430143820	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430143824	Thank you. I remember that during the legendary, glorious VLAK days, it was decided very wisely, I think, that the FSA should have more stringent supervision of the consumer loan companies. The rapporteur has negotiated it himself, so the rapporteur knows the area better than I do. However, the focus should be on monitoring the credit rating processes so that the quick loan companies that lend money to people who cannot pay back are closed down by the FSA. But that work is something that has not been started at all, because this government is saying: no, this kind of sensible regulation and supervision is not going to work; we must strike hard. And I'm just a little puzzled about why the Left contributes to a culture at Christiansborg, where instead of waiting for the legislation to work, and see if it's enough... some kind of proportionality principle... then jumps on this galaj instead of insisting on saying: let's just see if what we have adopted in the glorious VLAK days is not going to be good. And I really just want that to be clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430143930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430143931	In fact, I started my rapporteur's speech by saying that this is the continuation of a series of initiatives. Because sometimes you get the impression that it's like the Folketing has been sitting on its hands for a lot of years in this area. We certainly haven't. And I myself pointed out that supervision was strengthened by transferring it from the consumer ombudsman to the FSA. It was also in the glorious VLAK days that a working group was set up in the Ministry of Industry to look at further initiatives, and if I do not remember quite wrong, there was also a discussion about whether to consider the possibility of an ÅOP ceiling. So that way I can easily see that there are some clues that lead back to a glorious common past.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430144018	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Hans Christian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430144029	Thank you. So now I do not know how glorious the time was to which reference is made. I can well think of a few examples that were not very flattering for the art of cooperation. But it wasn't something that had to do with quick loans that much we can probably agree on. Of course, we can also support the bill from the government which stems from a political agreement of which the Danish People's Party is a part. After all, this is a draft law which has been under way for a long time in relation to the discussion which has been purely political in the Folketing and also outside the Folketing in the sense that there has been a major media talk about citizens who have felt that they have been taken unfairly in relation to others. the cases that have also been mentioned in the past have today that an interest rate of more than 700 per cent. According to the judges, the law of usury that we have in the Kingdom of Denmark was not contrary to. It was something that many of us wondered about, because if not 700 per cent. If we are usurers, we might almost ask: what are we going to do? So it's 1,700 percent, or what are we talking about? At least it was something that screamed to heaven, and therefore it was also appropriate for the Danish Parliament to sit down and try to make some moves that can do away with it. That, then, is what we have for legal treatment today, and it contains a number of bans and a number of restrictions, among others. in relation to marketing and maximum annual percentage costs. And then it also contains what the Danish People's Party was in any case very interested in, precisely in relation to loans between private individuals, because we were among others. experienced that people not only send money over Facebook etc., but also that websites were actually made that earned money from being intermediaries between private people, i.e., primutu.dk was one of those who made sure to connect people; those who had no money and those who had no money. And this meant that bikers came to visit unsuspecting housewives who had children who had come to take up debts over various creative lending services. And it's not something that has to get Earth going here in Denmark. We need to take action to ensure that there is also legal effect that applies to creative people who are trying to squeeze money out of others, including illegal debt collection. That is why it is good that we have tightened up the rules on loans between private individuals and that we should also set in motion additional control mechanisms. In the Danish People's Party, we are not quite sure that the new control is enough. We simply fear that it is too little that we get set aside in relation to it. And we also know that things are going incredibly fast. Well, you can open and close facebook profiles in the course of a morning and an afternoon, and vapti, then people have made some of these initiatives. So it's gonna be uphill, and it's gonna almost do that no matter what. But that is an improvement, and that is why we naturally support it. There is then a place where there has been a dispute, and I have to say that also to the Minister. For that with the maximum annual cost as a percentage was a major issue in the negotiations, and we ended up with an AOP of max. 35% However, as we interpreted it in relation to the market, which we also get briefing about from those who, what to say, the good guys, those who make honest loans on the credit markets, is, of course, that precisely with the marketing ban that is on loans up to 25%, there is, in fact, indirect talk of making a lower ÅOP limit than the 35%. Instead, it was 25% because you get impossible this type of marketing of the other loans. And that was not the intention behind the agreement, at least. But I also admit that when the parties to the agreement cannot agree that this was not the intention, it is a bird on the roof. But that does not change the fact that I have to say in this Chamber that this was the agreement: AOP 30-35 per cent, and not 25 per cent. And that is what was characteristic of it, but of course we take note of it in relation to the further process. But, of course, we support the bill; we are in the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430144502	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Katrine Robsøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430144509	Thank you for the floor. It's been a long way to get here, not just our talk in this parliamentary assembly, because this bill comes on top of previous attempts to put an end to quick loans, where providers still found a way out. It must be over now, and please, I am glad that we have found a place to meet in a broad agreement that ensures sustainability and is a security for the Danes against quick loans. There are some points in the agreement that I would like to highlight in particular, because I believe that they together provide a strong safeguard against totally unfair loans. First of all, quick loans have been allowed for far too long to lure people with colorful advertisements into easy and fast money. That is why we are firmly committed to the marketing of quick loans. This is, of course, legislation that we must follow up because it is intrusive, but it is also necessary. There should not be a bus commercial with a number you can send a text message to and then have the money on the account immediately and then had to live with a completely unreasonable ÅOP level. We should not accept the relentlessly throwing up advertising between sports broadcasts and blottle up and down game ads. We must put an end to this. Secondly, quick loans have been allowed for far too long to catch people in an almost endless debt spiral. Fortunately, we are putting an end to that now with the cost ceiling. It is absolutely crucial to me that one's debt cannot be allowed to increase indefinitely. There should be no incentive for the providers of unsafe consumer loans to lend out to people who do not have an earthly chance of paying back the money. One has to assess one's customers, and we now have a clear incentive to do so. Thirdly, quick loan providers have been allowed for far too long to take completely insane interest rates. There have been absurd examples of an ÅOP level that was completely on the moon. We are now putting an abrupt end to this. In the section dealing with the ÅOP ceiling, I would like to emphasise that it is important to remember that ÅOP is not the interest rate but is becoming higher with a shorter repayment period. At the same time, we have made a very broad definition of which loans are subject to this legislation. I think we are doing this with a very open mind, because these providers, as I said at the beginning, have had far too easy in the past to find a way out. Therefore, the ÅOP ceiling applies to all unsecured consumer loans. In fact, I think we have placed ourselves in a very sensible position. Last but not least, we also ensure with the agreement a lot of other good things, such as. money for debt advice to those people who are already unhappyly trapped in an evil spiral. We have also agreed to ensure the preparation of educational material for schools, because I think it is actually quite important that we do something about the fact that there are a great many children and young people who have so far been caught in this. Overall, in my opinion, we have here a rather unique package in a legislative proposal. I think we are hitting many of the balances very well, and God knows it has not been easy to get there, but I am really glad that we are here and radicals support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430144835	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Radicals, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party. It's Mrs. Theresa Berg Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430144845	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by saying that this agreement is the basis of a legal procedure which is before my time here in the Things. However, I can nevertheless welcome the fact that, together with the government and a large number of parliamentary parties, this agreement has been signed to put a stick in the wheel of those companies which have unscrupulously profited on quite unreasonable terms of credit. SF has suggested several times that action be taken against quick loan providers, and we have had a really hard time looking passively at how ferocious companies have been able to issue loans with up to several hundred, yes, several thousand percent in annual costs. We see it as a scandal that a country like Denmark has been able to allow this market and that it has been completely unregulated. Quick loan companies have caught many people in a totally incalculable debt. This may apply to young people and vulnerable people, and I think it has been an indecent practice on the part of the lenders. So I'm really glad we're gonna stop this. Before this agreement was signed, I have often asked myself whether this practice is a way of making money. Is it ethically justifiable to target your loan options to vulnerable people who already take up a lot of debt so that it becomes completely incalculable for them? I think the answer is clearly no. This agreement does not mean that people can no longer borrow if necessary, as the Left says. If your washing machine breaks down or if a student needs a new computer, there are other options. The agreement merely ensures that consumers will have reasonable conditions here when they need to borrow money. I am glad that we can deal with this bill, especially in the crisis we are facing because I think people are more likely to resort to a quick loan because they may lose income, so it is imperative. Several have lost income, so it may be tempting to borrow extra money in this time. So I'm really glad we're gonna get it through now. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430145115	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430145123	I have really looked forward to today, to a battle with biker interest and to the fact that together we are creating better debt advice. I think it's a good day today. Just think about it. It's time to stop having interest at 759 per cent quite legally. It is no secret that there has been a great deal of disagreement and political discussion in the negotiations that have taken place. In fact, I think that the negotiations up to today have been too much to protect the companies that are on the quick loan market. Who is it really that people are trying to protect there? Why is it that there has to be a business in having high interest rates? We know that those who are unable to repay the loans are most severely affected and are therefore stuck in an endless spiral of debt. I quote here from an interview with Morgan Volish from Herning of Danmarks Radio: "Morgan has previously been sent out soldier and is suffering today from PTSD. The disease means that in manic attacks, he has made quick loans for thousands of kroner. In total, he has made quick loans for DKK 300,000, divided into 27 different quick loans. But even if I pay off, my debt grows anyway, says Morgan Volis, an early retirementist. So Morgan owes about 300,000 kroner. to various quick-borrowing companies. When we wrote in the understanding paper this summer that we were going to have a fight with quick loans, it was precisely people like Morgan that we fought for not the new highly growing business idea of exploiting vulnerable people and making money on other people's needs. Several people have counter-argued me that it is precisely poor people that they can help, because then you can make sure that they can get a loan and, for example, they can get a loan. can afford to buy a new refrigerator. There I simply have to take my head and say: since when do we solve poverty and poverty problems with quick loans? We are solving poverty by tackling the root of the nettle, and if we are absolutely to make patch solutions, we should improve the ability of the municipalities to provide subsidies for unforeseen costs or loans that already exist today; not with quick loans, and certainly not with the expensive ones. That is why it has been crucial for us in the Enhedslisten that we have strengthened the debt advice, which has been very difficult, precisely because the problem has grown so rapidly in recent years that they really cannot keep up with it at all. There are a lot of people who end up with and who are in these problems like Morgan, who have other problems to deal with than debt. I would have liked us to have given a more significant boost, because it can both help those who are in trouble and it can also prevent, but this was as far as we could get in this round. In addition, if I am going to highlight another point that has been very important to us, then it is a dispute with the obscene and misleading advertising of quick loans, as has been the case in public space. It has had massive consequences and is among other things. An accomplice to the fact that many young people have made quick loans. This has been limited in terms of marketing, so that no quick loan can be advertised at all if you have just one product on the shelves with an ÅOP of over 25%, and I hope this will have a positive impact on fewer young people being caught in a debt spiral early in life. Similarly, the blockages of combining it with games must stop, for example, gambling people being subjected to dangerous manipulation. If it were up to us, the ceiling for the ÅOP should have been 15%. instead of 35%, but since it did not succeed, I think it is a good thing that there is a ceiling on the maximum. can pay 100 per cent. On top of what you owe. It will put an end to the terrible stories that many of you may have seen in the Luxury trap, where penalty interest etc. has meant that you have not been able to get out of your debt. I would like to conclude by thanking you who have helped to ensure that we could not get to where we are today, especially the SF and the government, the Consumer Council and other interested organisations where the cooperation has been really, really good. Because I actually also think that, despite disagreements, the cooperation has also been good. One would sometimes think that we cannot praise each other across parties, especially when we are hammering so in the end I hope that this will be a good step towards a stop to biker interest rates, good debt advice and especially at a time when we see unemployment explode. Let us address the root of the problems that are and put a foot at the door of quick loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430145646	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430145654	Thank you. I fully agree with Enhedslisten's rapporteur that it is good that we can make a settlement which contains many parties across the Danish Parliament. But I would also like to say that that is what we could agree on. It is not all that is involved in the challenges that may arise. The rapporteur himself outlines the example that several of us have also noted with him with the 27 quick loans. The rapporteur then also mentions a washing machine. At least that is what was mentioned in the rapporteur's speech. I am just thinking of the fact that the citizen in question does not need 27 washing machines, but we still have the challenges of when we cannot have the quick loans, so you just start selling the washing machines at a much higher price, and then you say with 12 giro cards in your hand and with kind regards to the customer: there are no fees; there are no interest rates; that is a good offer. And then you just end up paying far, far more for the same washing machine that you could have bought elsewhere at half the price you end up paying. What does Enhedslisten think about that? Because we haven't saved the chestnuts out of the fire.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430145811	The rapporteur, and there is a minute and a half to reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430145816	It was, in fact, a refrigerator that I mentioned, and that is an interesting example, because that is what was constantly brought forward. But when you look at refrigerators, you can see that they in IKEA actually stay below the 15%. and sells refrigerators, so I think the example was excellent to illustrate that one should have supported Enhedslisten, SF and the Alternative's proposal. Well, leave it alone. I think that is a good point that the Danish People's Party made during the negotiations, and that was something that you also raised there. I understood the reply from the Ministry that it could not be done at this stage, but I hope the rapporteur knows that if we see that there is a breeding ground for this to happen anyway, then of course we must have done something about it. At any rate, I am very much in agreement with that, and I also think it is one of the things we need to look at when we need to evaluate the agreement. Because it doesn't really help if you can get caught up in the way that the Danish People's Party tells about. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430145917	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430145920	Of course, I'm sorry it wasn't a fridge, but a washing machine I came to mention. But that does not change the basic substance, which in this way we share the acceptance of still there. That's also why I'm saying that before we start to pop with the flag and become happy and self-great in here, it's just that we in the Danish People's Party fear that this is a slippery path towards far, far more consumer purchases, where you get 12 giro cards in your hand and the message: Here you go, that's a great offer. And then it actually ends up with customers paying far more for the products than they should have done otherwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430150000	The Enhedslisten's rapporteur must be allowed to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430150008	Although we are very much in agreement on this, I think it's fine to come back to it. I think that is an important point, and in general terms, and I hope that we can agree on this, we should have strengthened it both in terms of prevention and debt advice, that you can make contact and get help on how to see through such things. But you also have to be able to see through the different purchases. I don't think most people are watching Parliamentary TV, but Denmark's Radio has made a really nice little clip with Lenny from Paradise, which reveals that a lot of people actually find it hard to figure out what they are buying. It is a question of quick loans, but it is also a question of other purchases. What exactly do you buy with the deal you make? I think that we should be focused on being able to do better.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430150055	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Now there are no more brief comments to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, and the next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Mrs. Mona Juul, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430150105	Thank you for the floor. I'm not quite sure why this is so, but for mysterious reasons there are always some who buy some silly diet pills, luxury furniture for no money and facials that make you look 10 years younger. It's silly and sometimes almost embarrassing to observe. It's also been watching people borrow 10,000 kroner. without realizing what ÅOP really is and without just reading it with the small. It has not often been shown that they have to cough up with, for example. 800 per cent. in annual costs, i.e. what is ÅOP, which is both the interest rate and the fee. It sure as hell has been able to turn into a lot of money. Of course, most people have paid for borrowing at an annual cost of three - digit percentages. The fact that someone has jumped on the so-called quick loan can only be speculated about the reason, but surely it is that the providers of the loans have been the great winners. It is very difficult for me to have sympathy for providers who exploit weak souls, young vulnerable people, and perhaps even the urge of gamblers by putting loans up against gaming ads. After all, there is a difference between diet pills that don't work; furniture that is not so luxury when they don't cost anything; and facials that maximum make you feel younger, and so people who end up in an unfortunate economic situation because they have got loans they absolutely shouldn't have gotten. The first we may feel sorry for and giggle a little: the world will be deceived. The second is not, under any circumstances, fair. Of course, we cannot be familiar with this just to keep watching. I thought, like many others, that we should get rid of those unbridled biker-like interest rates and threw me into the fight. I thought that in spite of my antipathy to legislate about everything and everything, we should protect the weak souls from biker interest, which only reduces the already very poor situation of many people... that we as a society should have the profit right here to take on that responsibility. I've been researching, and I've even been chatting with some of the providers, pretending to take a quick loan. That was awful, I'll say hello. I have come across private lenders and a gloomy black market, and I never imagined that Conservatives would be outside an agreement on quick loans. So thank the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten. I can also sign the other rapporteurs and Mrs Victoria Velasquez; it has been a pleasure to work on the matter, but nevertheless we are not in the agreement. We are not in because the agreement goes too far. It shoots gray sparrows with guns. In my best opinion, the government and the parties behind the agreement have been caught up in the mood and have forgotten what the task was really about, namely to remove the exorbitant quick loans. The task was not to destroy the market for ordinary short-term consumer loans, because it is actually important that money can continue to be borrowed and that borrowing can continue to pay off. We need to ask ourselves in politics and life in this way: what is right and proper? And, of course, it is not fair at 800 per cent. in AOP. It may sound awesome with an ÅOP ceiling of more than 35%, but it really doesn't have to be when you look at the total cost of DKK • not at all for smaller loans with a short repayment period, which very many would like to take up and pay back, and which I think they should be allowed to do. You come home from vacation, you just came to spend a little too much money, the fridge is getting off, you get an invitation to a party, and of course you have nothing to wear so it is. It's early in the month, and the account's getting empty. You have the possibility that you can borrow 5,000 kroner. over 6 months, and for fees and interest at the same level as the Ministry has consistently calculated, it will then cost you DKK 833. to borrow the 5,000 kroner, which I suppose is not deeply unreasonable. But the loan lands on an ÅOP of more than 70%. and will therefore be illegal in the future. Then just one of three things happens: either you drop the cold milk and new clothes, or you get the help of a friend or enemy, or you get a loan with a lower ÅOP. The latter simply requires a longer repayment period, for which the bank naturally pays, and then you have a total more expensive loan with an ÅOP less than 35 years old, yes, probably also less than 25. That is what will happen de facto, as the law is knitted together. It's a long way from the 25 to the 800 percent. or vice versa. Is that really what we wanted? Not in my opinion. And that is not what the then Conservative Minister for Economic Affairs had in mind when he set out in the old government to examine the quick loans. The agreement also contains various other very far-reaching restrictions, in which I also find it difficult to see the balance. The marketing ban alone hits very serious companies very hard, and at the same time it puts Danish companies at a disadvantage compared to their foreign competitors. That is why we rejected the agreement and, unless I succeed in convincing my good rapporteur colleagues of vital changes in committee, we shall vote in a huge no-thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430150610	Thank you for that to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. The next person in the rapporteur's line to speak is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430150622	Thank you. I would otherwise have looked forward to the rapporteur's speech by the new citizens, but I shall have another good time. In the Liberal Alliance, we can't support this bill. We actually believe that there is a lack of quality on far too many parameters. We actually think it's a bad bill to say the truth as we see it. I understand that the Minister would like to strengthen consumer protection with this bill and, as we mentioned earlier, it was also something the previous government wanted, and therefore, in July last year, a very good agreement was made that consumer credit companies should be authorised by the FSA to carry out their business, and the FSA must approve the companies' credit assessment processes. In other words, the FSA must monitor that consumer lending companies do not lend to weak souls who cannot see through their loans, that they do not carry out irresponsible lending. I think that is a sensible way of dealing with it: finding the stingy vessels, taking them out of the business, instead of hitting everyone. Unfortunately, the FSA's permissions have not been granted to a single company yet; the legislation has not yet entered into force. Instead, the current government has unfortunately been busy implementing more legislation, more burdens and more bureaucracy by a broad majority. I think it is a generally boring characteristic of this government, and perhaps especially of the Minister of Industry, that it is not so good at taking business-friendly initiatives, balanced regulation and good framework conditions, but instead it focuses on restrictions and mistrust and worse framework conditions. I'm hoping for a change with the government and the minister. Now I have not been sitting in the Folketing for a very long time, but I do not recall that in this Parliament, new legislation has been implemented to promote consumer protection in an area before the previously adopted legislation to promote consumer protection in the same area has even entered into force and subsequently been evaluated. That's not what we do in this Parliament, is it? We do not have a precedent for this. That's one of the reasons why we couldn't be on this deal. I get the impression that it may not be so much about promoting consumer protection as it is about showing action to the Danes in a case that is popular with the Danish population, and saying that quick loans are only for stupid people, and that there is no one who might be able to take a loan and pay back on time and be happy with the product. I do not quite know whether it is part of this social contract that you want to decide more about various companies. After all, it was most recently seen that Danske Bank had to be reproached by the Minister for Business for not relaxing the credit rating requirements. Now it is the small lenders who need to be reviled for not managing their lending. It does not make sense to say, on the one hand, that Danske Bank should relax the credit rating requirement when lending out to real estate, while at the same time strengthening the rating requirement for those who want to borrow for a moped repair or a small vacation, i.e. to borrow less. I mean, it is simply not connected, and I find it difficult to see what it is that promotes consumer protection in this legislative proposal. I understand that one would like to prevent the Danes from being caught in bottomless debt, but I sincerely do not believe, and it is a sincere concern that this bill will be a safeguard against increased debt, among other things. because it is focused on ÅOP, and ÅOP is designed in such a way that it is an artificial concept that does not actually measure the interest part of the cost of a loan. After all, it is designed to decrease with the length of the loan. And that means, as I said earlier, that you borrow 5,000 kroner. for a month and must pay them back with 6,000 kroner. One month later, the ÅOP is 800 per cent, although the interest rate is actually 20 per cent. If you borrow 5,000 kroner. and must pay back with DKK 6,500. Excuse me, but this is not a satisfactory way to regulate. Those who benefit primarily from this bill are the banks, is Finance Denmark, for people will flow away from the small consumer lending companies and over to the banks offering long loans. Consumers lose, but big business wins. And I fear that when the banks get rising stock prices because they win those customers, the business minister will be mad at the banks because they are doing very well and gain market shares and may even pay dividends to their owners as a result of this regulation. When you look at the hearing answers, there are a lot of those who point out that this is a distortion of competition and in violation of EU law from the Danish Credit Council, the Finance Association, the Danish Advertising Association, the Danish Media and to the former director of the Danish Competition Authority Finn Lauritzen. The government's response to all of these is: Jojo, but the Ministry of Business considers that there is no problem. However, a business-friendly minister must be prepared to examine whether there is a problem, to approach the Commission, to examine it thoroughly before urgent action is taken in the Folketing. So, all in all, unfortunately, I do not believe that this draft law affects consumer protection. And I think it lacks quality, which is why we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430151152	Thank you. Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Now we are through the rapporteur's line, and the last person to speak is the Minister for Industry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430151159	Today is a really, really good day, because today we will have an end to the clash against quick loans, which a very broad majority in the Danish Parliament agreed at the end of last year to be implemented. Now the bill here, which translates the large and broad political agreement, which I am very pleased that it could be possible to bring us together so widely in the Folketing to conclude at the end of last year. It is high time that we settled the excessive interest rates and charges which some consumer loans have incurred, which in some cases have led to more Danes ending up with incalculable and unreasonable debts. That is why I am also pleased that there is a broad majority in the Folketing that wants to see a break with these consumer loans, as we agreed in December 2019. The increasing digitisation has made it very, very easy to raise consumer credit, and although a number of measures have been taken in the field of consumer law, we need to tighten up the legislation further, to help consumers better on the way. We will not accept interest rates of hundreds of percent, and we will not accept that ordinary people are caught in a totally unreasonable debt situation. That is why we are dealing with the legislative proposal that we have before us today: to implement the political agreement on a quick-borrowing dispute and to protect the ordinary consumer from unfair conditions. The bill strengthens consumer protection, and it does so by ensuring proper conditions in the consumer credit market. This is done by imposing a number of restrictions on consumer loans, including: Those we know and refer to as quick loans. The bill therefore introduces an ÅOP ceiling of 35%. for consumer loans. At the same time, a cost cap of 100% is introduced which helps to ensure that the total cost of a consumer loan cannot run out of control. At the same time, we are restricting the massive marketing of consumer loans. The bill does not allow the public sector to market its loan products if you have consumer loans in your loan portfolio with an ÅOP of more than 25%. The bill also introduces a ban on marketing consumer credit in connection with the marketing of gambling or gambling providers. In addition, the time is also ripe for modernising current efforts in the field of financial consumer information. We must ensure better and more effective action to promote consumers' financial understanding. Therefore, the Money and Pension Panel is closed and public consumer information is anchored in the FSA in the future. I am delighted to note that during the public consultation both professional and consumer organisations have fundamentally welcomed the draft law and its overall purpose. On the whole, I am glad that there are so many of us who want to protect the Danes and find a good balance between loans at reasonable costs and the possibility for consumers to continue to receive the loans they need. That is why I believe that the bill here provides that balance and delivers the much-needed and sought-after clash with quick loans.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430151532	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430151536	Thank you. It is very good that the Minister is aware of consumer protection. Many of us are. However, I would also very much like the Minister to be aware of the fact that the comments of the draft law directly state that it places Danish companies at a disadvantage compared to their foreign competitors because of the principle of country of dispatch contained in Articles 3 and 4 of the e-commerce law. This simply means in concrete terms that credit providers from other EU countries will continue to be able to make online marketing of credit agreements with an ÅOP of up to 35%. This leads me to ask the Minister whether the Minister can confirm that we are dealing de facto with a legislative proposal which means that AOP max. I would also very much like to ask the New Citizens' rapporteur exactly the same question. Because it is a very broad agreement that has been made, but I was not given the opportunity to do so, so now it is the Minister I am asking here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430151632	Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430151633	Thank you for the question. I am pleased that we are all very much concerned with consumer protection, because that is what this is all about. After all, there are so many Danes who have ended up in a fundamentally unhappy situation, because a quick loan has turned into a pure quicksand for them, something that you cannot get out of again, something that you are stuck in. Then it is clear that these are tough rules, but it is also because, in previous attempts, even under previous governments, we have seen that circumvention after circumvention has been the result of this phenomenon of quick loans. I know that we are making strict rules, but basically it is my view that this is what is needed in order to ensure a real break with the quick loans. Compared to the 25% marketing ceiling, it becomes an effective ÅOP ceiling. It's a tight ceiling with the 25%, but it's not an ÅOP ceiling. You can continue to market products, but it is just limited how massive you can do it, among other things. to young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430151740	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430151742	Thank you. I think that one thing that has also been on the table in the negotiations has just been the purchase of a refrigerator, for example. We have had this on several occasions, and there is no doubt that a supplier of a refrigerator will of course have the benefit of selling the refrigerator as well and can therefore put its interest rate, its rate of charge, significantly lower than if you are to have the money in your hand. Where does the Minister stand in relation to that and the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20200430151812	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430151813	In my opinion, if you need a refrigerator, you will still be able to buy a refrigerator. I think maybe we just need to taste the numbers here. Because it is quite unfair in the case of a loan company that you can actually have an annual cost in percentage terms of 35%. on a loan? It should be possible to run around, and we have tried, at least in the course of the negotiations and also very illustratively, to find examples of whether you can get a refrigerator or another good for an AOP that is below that level, and that is possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430151846	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430151847	Thank you, and I am sorry to the Conservative rapporteur, but I had to resign on behalf of nature, and I am, of course, happy to be available for questions if that is to be the case. So we're happy to do that. My question to the Minister for Industry is that, when we are implementing this, perhaps there is a third reading which is at the end of May or the beginning of June, and that then perhaps there is less than a month to implement it here, and it is in a situation where companies have sent people home because of corona or something else. I do not think that that is fair conditions to give to an industry, and I do not believe that we would have done that to other industries, and I do not think that the lending industry should be put in a different position from what we would have done to other industries. So I would encourage and recommend, also to those who are in the agreement, that we look at this and maybe postpone it a little, so we give a reasonable time for people to implement it, and I do not buy the argument that people could have known that we would have done this. But it is fair that, once Parliament has adopted it, that is to say after the third reading, we should give a reasonable deadline for implementation. Otherwise, we would have done the same thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430151957	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430151958	I shall not stand in the way of it if the New Citizens' rapporteur has the opportunity to get back on the list of speakers after my speech. I have a great opportunity to stay here and listen. In relation to the specific question of entry into force, it is something that has been put forward and on which the parties to the agreement agree, and therefore the parties to the agreement must also agree if we are to change it. I would say that I myself feel that it is reasonable that it should enter into force on the agreed date of entry into force for two reasons. Firstly, we are in a situation where we have seen unhappy quick loans hit many people in our society, especially in vulnerable situations. That is why it is time for us to have this debate and to have it done, not least because we are currently in a crisis situation where I think this will only be a phenomenon that can be further challenged. Secondly, I just have to say that the bill has been very easily accessible to many actors who had to prepare to implement it here for a very long time. That is why we have had a good opportunity to see how the implementation of a very broad political agreement would take place and thus also to be able to prepare for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430152105	Thank you. Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430152108	Yes, but I think the Minister may also see that these are special times. After all, we are constantly hearing from the government and from everyone else that these are historic times, and these are also historical times for industries that have to deal with new legislation. They may have only half the staff present, and the rest have been sent home, perhaps on aid packages, which means that they may not be able to solve this task. Because there may be some of the people who have been sent home on pay compensation, and that is why they do not have a physical possibility if they still want to have support crowns. 'Cause they can't work. So that's the thing about looking into that business and asking, what's the reasonableness of this? Should they, if they say they can't solve it? We have sent them here on pay compensation... then choose between not getting pay compensation continued or not being able to implement the new things that the Folketing brings here? I do not think it is right for us to put them in this way, and I would recommend that we look at this at committee reading to see whether we cannot push it a bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430152204	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430152208	Of course, we will also have a committee reading of the bill here and an opportunity to discuss things with each other, and I shall not in detail know how many financial institutions have sent employees on compensation for salaries. I am also very pleased that New Citizens, together with a great many other parties, have been included in the political agreement. After all, we have had a good and space of time to adjust to what are some basic principles that are going to apply, and I therefore believe that it is reasonable to stick to the date of entry into force.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430152246	Thank you. Before we move on to the next brief remark, I should like to say at least that, as rapporteur, we can ask for the floor in another round if we wish. Then, on the other hand, you only have three minutes' speaking time. Sir. Alex Vanopslagh for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430152303	Thank you. My impression, given a little bit of economy in this area, is that so-called quick loans and quick consumer loans for many of the Danes who unfortunately end up in debt traps are, so to speak, some of that, while a large part of the debt they suffer is bank loans, car loans and all sorts of other things that are not regulated by this bill. I just want to know whether the Minister has a knowledge, a knowledge that the Minister may want to share with the committee, which suggests or documents that there are problems with people who are trapped in bottomless and large debts, simply because of the type of consumer credit that you want to regulate with this bill, or whether it is something that you have no knowledge of at this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430152354	Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430152355	So we should not have followed the public debate much in order to know that quick loans have a very negative effect on people who are affected in situations where they cannot get out of these quick loans again. I do not know whether I can take the issue as an indication that the Liberal Alliance does not recognise at all that there is a problem with quick loans in Denmark. Now you're outside this political agreement, and I think that's unfortunate. I think that we should have been involved in the negotiations all the way through and that we should have been included in the agreement. Basically, this is also about protecting a number of consumers, a number of Danes who are at risk of ending up in vulnerable situations where quick loans, as I say, turn into a kind of quicksand, something that it is difficult to get out of, something that drags you further and further down economically. We have an obligation to do something about that. The experiments have been carried out along the way, they have been bypassed time and time again. Now there is a real dispute with quick loans, and I would very much have liked to see the Liberal Alliance take part in this. But I do not know whether it should be an indication that we do not recognise that there is a problem here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430152500	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430152501	I have to interpret the answer as saying that the Minister does not have a knowledge that documents or suggests that the quick loans themselves are the cause of the bottomless debt, and that it is probably a more complex problem where people who are already in debt take quick loans, and that the quick loans will then become the drop that makes the cup flow over. I think that is a serious matter. If it were up to the Liberal Alliance, it should be the case that there was a requirement for quick loan providers to have a loan applicant a large debt in a financial institution, it would not be possible to borrow it out to that person. However, quick loan providers must not have access to the data that can show whether a borrower has a large debt in a financial institution. Could the Minister be interested in strengthening the possibilities for credit ratings by sharing the data between the lenders?
ParlaMint-DK_20200430152544	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430152546	I can assure you that various possibilities have been sought in the course of the negotiations. The rapporteur's good colleagues from other parties who ended up in the agreement have also brought the relationship into play, so we have been about that. I just have to say that I think it reveals a party, the Liberal Alliance, which does not want to take responsibility here, which does not want to take responsibility for the negative things that quick loans contribute to Danish society, because it is uncomfortable because you do not want to, and that is too bad. I would have liked the Liberal Alliance to have agreed to this agreement and voted in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430152623	Thank you. Then I'll have to make sure somebody wants to speak. Does the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party wish to speak in a second round? Yes, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430152634	Thank you. When I take the floor, it is because the Conservative rapporteur had a wish to ask a question, and then I think it is fair to have that opportunity. That is why I was able to speak here. So it is basically just to give it the opportunity to the Conservatives' rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430152651	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430152658	Thank you. I think it's a very good custom, I'd say to Mr. Knox. Lars Boje Mathiesen, to show that respect for Mrs Mona Juul. I'll take the same offer. In fact, I just want to hear what some very good things are in this agreement that make New Citizens part of it and vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430152716	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430152718	Now I'm gonna be careful not to get too close to sir. Alex Vanopslagh, we don't want to have the Health Authority and all sorts of other people after us! But if he turns around, I can answer it. For us, it has been important to have the decision that came from the court and that showed that we could not deal with this matter with usurpation, as it was now, so it took us to make some changes. There was a need for changes in legislation in relation to this. Would we have thought that the agreement was somewhere else if you were talking about ÅOP? Yeah, we'd like it to be somewhere else. Now it was a debate and then it came to be there. One of the elements which I think is important and which I also hear the Minister say has been emphasised in the negotiations is that in relation to the mentally ill, people on the edge of society, extra efforts are being made in relation to the fact that they are not going to take up very many loans. And I think that's the positive thing about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430152812	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430152814	There is also today an opportunity for you to click into the CPR system and then cross off the CPR system just as you can cross that you don't want marketing in your mailbox that you can't be approved for various loans, and mentally ill citizens can do that. I think there are ways to solve it without hitting the whole business. But I just want to know whether New Citizens think that this will mean that the banks will win customers from those who are offering this type of consumer credit now and that it does not actually necessarily improve consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430152842	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430152844	That's a valid point, but I think it's too early to say. And I believe that, as we have just included in the agreement, this must be evaluated. After all, concern is whether it is really 35%. or 25% that will be the governing one. And that is where we have been promised by the Minister, including in the negotiations we have just had, that we are evaluating it. And the intention is not that it should be 25 per cent, but that it should be 35 per cent. And that is the advantage of being part of the agreement, so that we can hold on to these things by the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430152917	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Mona Juul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430152921	Thank you for that and thank you for the opportunity. What I would just like to ask New Citizens about, which in this Chamber also wants to be a good friend of the business community, is how to help make an agreement that, in fact, puts Danish industry at a disadvantage when it comes to making loans.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430152940	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430152943	I do not think I recognise the premise that this generally puts the economy at a disadvantage. It protects consumers in some areas. I don't share the left, you can say cheering that this solves everything. There will still be people who make decisions that may be less wise and put themselves in massive debt. So if you go out afterwards and sell this as something that makes sure that people don't get into a big debt that they can't get out of, then it's putting blues in their eyes. But it goes in and perhaps protects some of the weakest in society who need a helping hand by saying that we are putting in some control units. Could you have done this without this? Yes, we had foreseen that we could have done so. It could have been a better deal if you'd done it. And I think that if Conservatives and New Citizens should have made that deal, we'd probably have gone that way. But the premise was that if we were to have any of this, it would have to come into this agreement. And then it was a balance. And we think that there are thus some weak out there, some vulnerable souls who here need a helping hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430153040	Thank you. Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430153043	Well, none of us, I'm thinking, wouldn't want to help in any way. The question is, is this bill actually helping someone? At least that helps some people, and there is no doubt about it, but does it help everyone? Does it also help the people I have tried to tell you about in my rapporteur's speech, who are, after all, getting considerably more difficult to obtain a normal consumer credit?
ParlaMint-DK_20200430153105	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430153107	No, I don't think it helps everyone, and I would never say it does. It helps some, and then there will be some others who are still away we are in an economically difficult situation and who will still need loans. That's why I'm saying it's not an ultimate fix on any thing. It goes in and addresses some specific things where there has also been a need. I think that the court order that came in stressed the need for it to be addressed and for something to be done. Then you could always have an assessment of whether you should have weighed it one way or the other. There we have chosen to say that, well, these things that we have negotiated, that it was not 15%. AOP, but that it might come up to the 35 instead, was actually something that we could help with, i.e. the control rates that were on the weak and the vulnerable in society. In fact, we think that this is really, really important in New Citizens in order to show our social minds to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430153149	Thank you. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430153203	The debate is open. The first to speak is the rapporteur of the Social Democrat Party, Mr President. Orla Sea. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430153219	Thank you. Now I will skip part of the introduction, since the House has listened to it once, and go to say that when the need for this change of law is there, it is because global trade has developed as violently as it has, and that it is absolutely essential that we as consumers can have confidence in the things we buy cross-cutting, whether it is for the safety of the product or for the function of the product. You have to have confidence that the mobile charger you have bought will not be on fire or that there will be no toxic chemicals in the toys that children are going to have for Christmas, and that is why this bill has been drafted as it is. The market surveillance regulation is built into it: it extends the powers of the authorities to carry out checks, inter alia. with new means of control under hidden identity and to block access for online interfaces selling dangerous products. At the same time, the draft law tightens the consequences for non-compliance, including the following: by increasing the penalties and raising the indicative levels of fines, with particular focus on repeated infringements. Thus, the draft law brings together general provisions on market surveillance of products in the areas of the Security Authority into a main law, whether or not they are covered by EU harmonisation. In addition, and this is perhaps even more pleasing, the bill also follows up on the agreement on nitrous oxide concluded by the government with the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten, the Conservative People's Party and the Alternative. The bill prohibits the sale of nitrous oxide cartridges to young people under the age of 18 and prohibits the sale at a time of more than 17 grams of nitrous oxide and the sale of nitrous oxide if, at the same time, alcohol and tobacco are sold in the shops concerned. The aim is, in particular, to stop the abuse that we have been able to observe that groups of young people have suffered from nitrous oxide as a drug. It is worth emphasising that it is a seriously harmful drug abuse issue, and it is therefore very gratifying that such a large part of the Folketing supports tightening the rules on nitrous oxide. When we heard in committee that 32,000 small cartridges of this kind had been seized by a dealer, which young people buy under the name of laughter gas, there is good reason to be aware that it is not a store that helps to supply Denmark's cake bakers, but it is a store that has a completely different purpose, and we should stop that for the sake of young people, because it is dangerous. So I think it is a very good day and we welcome the fact that we are both looking out for consumers and, above all, looking out for young people to get into an abuse of this laughter gas.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430153549	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's report to the rapporteur of the Left. It's sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430153600	Thank you for the floor. After all, this is a rather special draft law, as it addresses three different issues. Firstly, the proposal translates the agreement to take action against the abuse of nitrous oxide. It is the implementation of an agreement that we are part of, which we concluded not so long ago. Of course, we think it is very sensible to take action against this. Anyone who has been following the media or who is in the night has seen that this has been an increasing problem. So we think it is very good that action is being taken, among other things. a ban on the sale of nitrous oxide to young people under 18 years of age, with a limit on quantity, so that no more than two small nitrous oxide cartridges per year can be sold. Consumer pr. It is not possible to sell laughter gas where alcohol, tobacco or e-cigarettes are marketed. We in the Left think that is common sense. Secondly, the draft law addresses this growing problem of goods purchased online, which are dangerous and do not meet the consumer protection we normally have and do not meet EU standards. This is both a problem for consumers and for the law-abiding companies that face unfair competition. That is why we also think it is sensible that we should look at how to increase control of these kinds of goods. A number of proposals have been put forward, including: strengthened control options for the Security Authority, which may not have to give up where you come from when you buy goods in those webshops, and increased opportunities to shut down online platforms. That is what we think is sensible at first sight. Some questions of legal certainty have been raised in connection with the hearings on the extent of this legal basis. This is one of the things we would like to try to clarify in the legislative process and to be a little comforted in where the limits exactly go, in relation to what powers the authorities are given. But at first sight, we're positive. Finally, this draft law envisages bringing together the regulation of the different types of products that may be dangerous into a new main law in the area of the Security Authority. Both EU rules and Danish rules must be brought together. That is what we think is sensible at first sight. We hope and believe that this will help ease the administrative burden on businesses and facilitate communication for authorities, businesses and citizens, so that we also support this as a starting point. In this area, some questions have also been raised about exactly what it will mean across the different industries. Further attention has also been paid to who pays for some of these additional controls and how this is done. These are also some issues that we would like to see clarified during the committee's deliberations. We look forward to the committee reading and, as a starting point, we think that some sensible initiatives have been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430153852	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430153859	Thank you. But I would also like to start from behind and say that the part that is mentioned at the end of the bill is, at least in relation to the Minister's submission, the part that has to do with the lengthy debate that has been going on about the sale of nitrous oxide cartridges in Denmark. We can see that it's been buzzing all over the kingdom like a really bad custom. It has also been something that local PPR advisors, educators, teachers, gas station owners and train station officers and all sorts of others have had major problems with this abuse of nitrous oxide cartridges. There has also been an environmental part in it because there is a lot of packaging in them. They are quite heavy in the metal, even though they are emptied of gas content, and then they lie and float, and they are unbreakable in our nature. So there have been many different considerations. That is why, of course, it is also sensible that in January we could reach an agreement with broad support in the Folketing, in which we will then be able to put an end to that precedent. Now we hope that the evaluations will show that the sales figure has plummeted. Then, of course, we must also keep an eye on whether it simply shifts consumption to other types of abuse for the young people, who may have been most of the ones who have been able to use this as an abuse preparation. So we look forward to following that too, because it is precisely necessary to ensure that we do not simply move a problem. The second part of this is about the whole e-commerce problem, which has, of course, been a major explosion. It's something that's moved. Year after year we have been able to see that more and more people are taking on what you find almost exciting and delightful, and it is also very convenient to buy goods from home and get them delivered. Even on a Sunday morning at... 6:00 they can stay out in the driveway fully legal with such a small pony car and deliver goods to people. But it just presents some challenges elsewhere in the system. Among other things: We have a retail problem which we are trying to change now with what the tax minister had promoted, I think it was last week about this VAT rule, so that the foreign e-commerce stores are subject to more control and also more legislation, which then makes it harder to deliver at the prices they have been able to do in Denmark, so that they have been able to compete on an unhealthy basis against Danish internet shops and Danish retail stores. So we welcome that part of it. If we look at the product types that enter it is, for example, such a thing as cosmetics, then we can see that it is something that comes in without any kind of validity, in terms of whether they are harmful to health or not, and whether they are approved on the Danish market. It's just to give an example of it. It is available in many other types of products. You're very creative when it comes to trading. Many do what they can to keep the value of the goods down to get below the income limit. One of the most glaring examples I have seen is that you have started sending shoes to Denmark in each of their packages, because what is the value of one Nikesko? I haven't seen many walking around in the square with one Nike Shoe on and flashing it. No, you're just gonna get them in two packs, and then when they get home, they're gonna have a bigger value. There are no restrictions on how creative some have proven to be in relation to trade in products from primarily Asia, which come across the Danish borders for tens of thousands of days as package distribution. So this part of it about consumer protection and about going in with a greater degree of control towards those companies that do not do so on a competitive legal basis, we in the Danish People's Party welcome very much. So we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430154315	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430154322	Thank you. I will be very brief, because there are more who have examined very well what this bill contains. However, I would also like to point out that this bill contains our agreement on nitrous oxide. I think that most of us have seen quite concerned about the developments that have taken place and the amount of laughter gas cartridges you could see around the streets after a Saturday night. I am very pleased that in a broad agreement we are now getting something done about it, and that among other things. There is an age limit and a quantity limit, but also this one in particular, with a stop to the sale of nitrous oxide cartridges in shops where alcohol is also sold. Exactly the last part here was one of those things I think we figured out quite well together when we were negotiating this. So I think it's actually a pat on the shoulder for a lot of people in here. In addition, the bill also contains this part with a new framework for control of product safety. It is very important that we keep up with global trade development and that we also ensure that Danish consumers are protected from dangerous goods. That is why, of course, we support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430154444	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's report to the Socialist People's Party rapporteur, Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430154453	Thank you. In relation to Bill L 179, I would also particularly like to highlight the part relating to the broad political agreement reached in January 2020 • here I was there. This is specifically about stopping the dangerous trend seen among young people, where nitrous oxide is used as a drug. The use of nitrous oxide as a drug can have fatal consequences, which we must take seriously. In December 2019 the Danish Health Authority published a report on the spread of this phenomenon, i.e. inhalation of nitrous oxide among young people. And these conclusions were scary: 12-15 percent. of young people aged 15-25 in upper secondary and vocational schools stated that they had tried to inhale gas from gas cartridges. It also said that the spread of nitrous oxide from these cartridges was significant especially in the metropolitan area, but also elsewhere in Denmark. It made me call the SSP in my own small home region, namely in northern Jutland, and here the trend was also known. This bill forbids the sale of nitrous oxide cartridges to young people under 18 years of age. It makes a quantity limit of max. Two cartridges for private ones, and that also applies when we talk about imports. An important demand is also made for a system that guarantees the age of buyers when buying gas cartridges, but only two, on the Internet. It increases control, and then it increases the possibility of handing out fines if you see this happening. We are also restricting sales outlets, so that nitrous oxide can be sold in shops where it makes sense; and, as regards refrigerators, which have been mentioned today, one can, for example, say. buy it in kitchen utensils. Laughter gas can be lethal as a drug, and it should be stopped today rather than tomorrow, so the SF will vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430154711	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then we go to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Victoria Velesquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430154718	Vel a squez! It's kind of international when it comes to this thing with names, so it's fine. In relation to the first part of the bill that consumers should be able to trust that products are safe and comply with the applicable requirements, whether you are shopping in the local store or online or through international platforms, global platforms, we support both the proposal and intention. However, at the same time we fear that we are far from achieving objectives when it comes to protecting consumers from dangerous products purchased on online portals. Too much suggests that monitoring is a difficult task, and at the same time we see that when products are declared dangerous and removed from one portal, they appear on other portals or are simply replaced by other products that are equally dangerous. In the worst case scenario, products are being transferred to countries with less control in this area, and this is, of course, totally unacceptable. Therefore, we will always be a step backwards when it comes to monitoring and enforcing the rules, and that is why we in the Enhedslist think it is positive that we are allowed to carry out market surveillance and to block access on certain websites and to detain dangerous products. But we can fear that the pressure of control is too low and that the fines are too small to have a preventive effect on the sale of dangerous and illegal products. Well, there are some of them where we don't even think about it and I know more where you shop a little and buy a little of what some of us might call junk and plastic that can't be sorted. It's a mess sometimes. If control is to be effective, the fines will have to be higher and more resources will have to be allocated to monitoring the safety of products, and this is not the case in the legislative proposal, unfortunately. It is widely known that prosecution is difficult when the rules are broken by companies outside Europe, as happens in a global time often. Nevertheless, it is a step in the right direction and we say yes to the proposal, but will of course follow developments in this area closely. In relation to the part about nitrous oxide, we see it in the Enhedslisten as a step in the right direction, and we are very pleased that we have now managed to reach an overall agreement to limit young people's access to the purchase of nitrous oxide. Now the focus must also be on prevention and counselling for young people • many do not actually know how dangerous it is. So it's really good. And it has been important for us to have an overall agreement with several initiatives. When you see the amount of empty gas containers floating in the streets, it is clear that only a limit on the quantity that may be sold will help. And then the 18-year age limit for buying nitrous oxide as well as a ban on selling nitrous oxide along with drugs are important signals to send. This will undoubtedly limit availability and hence consumption. The responsibility is also placed in the right place, namely with the seller, who may now risk a covert fine for infringement. It is an important step, but it cannot stand alone. Therefore, it is also important that we have focused on strengthening preventive action in municipalities through SSP cooperation, and we also need to have better and more uniform counselling and treatment efforts for young people who have ended up or are at risk of becoming abused. However, overall, this is a good agreement and, above all, the latter is a very good and important step in the effort to prevent young people from becoming involved in dangerous abuses. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430155103	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the Conservative rapporteur, Mrs Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430155109	Thank you. After all, we are dealing with a legislative proposal which is, as it were, divided into two parts, but where both are based on consumer safety and security, and where both have a morale that I will end with. One part complements the EU Regulation on the safety and conformity of products and is about ensuring better monitoring and control of dangerous products traded online, typically from outside the EU. We know all the examples, for example. Toy with poisons products that no company should sell and that Danish companies are not allowed to sell at all. We don't want that kind of junk, and we don't want that unfair competition. The second part is about the ban on nitrous oxide as a drug, an intervention that hopefully can help to curb the massive abuse we have seen rising dramatically over the past few years. Laughter gas cartridges are, as you know, something that is used in whipped cream sifons. At least they do that at home with me, but you can also extract the gas in, for example. a balloon, suck it in and get a short-lived rush that blows the brain out at the same time. It's cheap, it's easily accessible, and it's terribly popular. And we are trying to put an end to that with the bill, among other things. to limit how many bullets you can buy and where you can buy them. That's really good. What is not so good is that we have to legislate against the Danes buying foolish, untested and dangerous products. The pursuit of good offers tends to overcome common sense. We can legislate on that, but it should not be necessary. And kiosk owners who have stood and longed hundreds of laughter gas cartridges over the counter for young people, who are obviously on a Friday night not putting cookies together, should have a really ugly taste in their mouths. And where are the parents? Shouldn't they have intervened long ago? We can't leave it all to the community. The state isn't your mother, and we're never gonna be able to forbid ourselves to everything. And we can't legislate about everything. We can, for example. do not predict whether there are other products that can be used as a drug. Today we take political responsibility, and Conservatives support that, but that should not be necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430155309	Thank you. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430155314	Thank you. After all, the bill contains various elements, including: an element that is an agreement that New Citizens are not part of. That is why I would ask that we divorce the bill. Then you can vote in favour of the things that you can support and then you can vote against the things that you do not have as part of an agreement. So we are going to ask for this, and I should like to welcome the Liberal Alliance and say that they have the same request, because they are also not part of the agreement that has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430155339	Thank you. This means that we are through the rapporteur's line. The last to speak is the Minister for Industry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430155347	Thank you very much for that and thank you for the nice words about the bill and for the receipt of it. With this bill, we are addressing some of the major challenges that recent years' growth in online commerce and the spread of global trading platforms have created for Danish consumers as well as for Danish companies. We must do what we can to ensure that dangerous toys are not sold from which our children can be harmed, or mobile chargers who can break fire. With the bill, we create a new, strong framework for control of product and safety across a wide range of product areas with importance for the Danes' lives and the Danes' everyday lives. And we are increasing the penalties for companies that do not comply with the rules. The aim of the government is that Danish consumers should be able to rely on the products they buy, even when they shop online and via platforms outside the EU. Danish companies that live up to the rules must be able to rely on us to beat down on those who cheat. It should never be worth cheating by circumventing the rules at the expense of the health and safety of the Danes. As trade has become global, including for Danish consumers, there is a need for new control options. The bill provides access to the control of hidden identity. This is really important because the Danish Security Authority finds that some web shops do not send them the products that are taken out for control. Therefore, the Danish Safety Authority must be able to order the products anonymously so that they actually receive the products as if they were an ordinary consumer. The bill also allows access to blocked websites and web portals where dangerous and illegal products are sold. It is an important tool in stopping dangerous products from third countries in particular. But they cannot do it alone. Therefore, the government also strengthens control of dangerous products sold online. This is done through the development of an artificial intelligence that can perform fast and efficient web searches via text and image recognition. In this way we can hopefully catch much, much more dangerous products online. Several of the powers come from a new EU regulation on market surveillance and product compliance, which the bill implements in the area of the Security Authority. The bill lays down the powers and tools available to the Danish Security Authority in order to carry out effective control of products in both physical shops and online. In some areas, however, the legislative proposal goes further than the regulation. We have judged this to be necessary if we are to really meet the challenges we face. The regulation applies only to products covered by EU harmonisation, while the draft law covers wider scope and includes controls and sanctions for almost all products in the field of the Security Agency. We do this because consumers must be able to feel safe, whether they have bought a toy or a weed burner. With the bill, we therefore bring together the general provisions on market surveillance of products in the area of the Danish Security Agency in a new main law. Then, as has been said by many, there is that part of the legislative proposal that is actually following up on the broad political agreement of January this year on nitrous oxide. Laughter gas in this context is not to be confused with what you get from the dentist when you need to be drugged, because there's mixed oxygen in it. But these are the laughter gas cartridges, which we have seen in very, very rich measure in our street picture, around in, as the Danish People's Party rapporteur said, the whole of the Danish country. The key aim of regulation is to stop the life-threatening use of nitrous oxide by young people in particular. We do this by setting an age limit of 18 years, ensuring that nitrous oxide can only be bought in small quantities, and we put an end to sales from kiosks and similar places where alcohol and tobacco are sold. We are going to follow up the new regulation of nitrous oxide with a comprehensive monitoring effort in connection with its entry into force and over the coming summer. We are also tightening up sanctions, regardless of whether you sell nitrous oxide for intoxication or whether it is dangerous toys. It must not be worth cheating at the expense of the health and safety of the Danes. We therefore significantly increase the fines from 10,000 kroner. today to 50,000 kroner, with the possibility that they may be raised further in serious and repeated cases. We also introduce prison sentences for the very serious cases if consumers' lives are put at risk. With those words, I just want to thank you for the good reception of the bill. I look forward to the further examination of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430155857	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the Minister for Industry. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200430155912	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 5 May 2020 at 1 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
