ParlaMint-DK_20200527100012	The meeting is open. There are no announcements, so we are going straight ahead with today's agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527100022	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 28 May 2020. We are ready to start, and we are giving the floor first for the explanatory statement, and that is for Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527100059	Thank you, and thank you very much for the opportunity here today to motivate the question that the Left has put together with the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance. I would also like to thank the Minister for that. It is indeed a long time since we raised the question, and therefore it is important for me to stress that we actually wanted to maintain it despite everything that has happened in the intervening period. However, I would like to start by saying that I wish there was no need to stand here today. The question is, after all, about getting an answer from the Minister as to what the government intends to do in order to meet the obligations of a political settlement of which the Social Democratic Party is a part. In my book, in my opinion, it should not be necessary to drag the government into such a situation, especially bearing in mind that it is explicitly in the government and in the understanding paper of the supporting parties that the government will respect all applicable settlements. Unfortunately, this is not the case in the context of the 2013 Su reform. I am thinking in particular of the part relating to a ceiling on the cost of social security for migrant workers, i.e. EU/EEA citizens, who are able to obtain the status of migrant workers for a leisure job of 10-12 hours a week and are therefore entitled to a pension. The Minister will probably argue that, due to the current corona crisis, there is a prospect that the problem will not continue, but I do not agree with that. For me, as I said, it is also about non-compliance with political settlements. There are three legs in this, so to speak. Firstly, the Minister has withheld information from the Folketing. A progress report on expenditure for 2018 should have been transmitted in 2019. It did not arrive until 31 January 2020 following several inquiries, including the following: on my part, even though the Minister, in a written reply to me, has acknowledged that the figures were already available in the Ministry in October and that they were submitted to the Minister on 10 November. Secondly, the Minister has not yet presented new solutions to meet the rising costs. Thirdly, the Minister has, after all, committed himself, through the government's understanding paper, to removing the defence initiatives introduced by the previous government in order to comply with the Su reform of 2013. There is enough to address in the debate here. I look forward to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527100412	Thank you. Then we give the floor to the Minister for Education and Research to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527100422	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor. The subject of this debate is one that we have had the opportunity to discuss on several occasions, both in the Council and subsequently, but it is also an important subject. As is also apparent from the question itself, we have, in the conciliation group, set a ceiling on expenditure on migrant workers. I would like to reaffirm that I stand by that agreement, just as I assume that all the conciliation parties do. The 2013 agreement means that the cost of social security for migrant workers must not substantially exceed what is currently EUR 442 million. kr. The conciliation group thus agreed that, if developments differ significantly from those envisaged, the parties undertook to secure funding in the sugar sector within the conciliation group and to initiate appropriate safeguard initiatives and, if necessary, to reorganise the sugar system if necessary. However, the conciliation parties also gave in 2017 with the adoption of V 50 in the Folketing handshake that it was not fair or responsible to resolve something that concerns a smaller share of total su-expenditure, by reducing the conditions for all Danish recipients. So we conciliation parties have committed ourselves and each other to solving this challenge together, but as time has shown, it is not an easy challenge to solve. Since 2013, Su spending on migrant workers has been increasing. They exceeded the ceiling for the first time in 2017, when the total Su-expenditure for migrant workers was 466 million. kr. The latest figures we have are from 2018, when spending increased to 505 million. kr. We don't have the 2019 figures yet, but a preliminary estimate indicates that the increase flattens out. So it looks like we're gonna end up at about 520 million. kr. for 2019. It is a preliminary estimate and must be taken with reservations. Changing governments have sought ways of limiting the cost of social security to migrant workers. Among other things, you have... In this context, it is important to stress the importance of the Community's relations with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the countries of Central and Eastern Europe as well as with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. The best offer we have at first hand to deal with Su expenditure is thus to regulate the number of study places in English-language courses. That was among other things. Against this background, the VLAK Government took the initiative to regulate the approach to English-speaking education. This was done at the vocational and professional bachelor degree programmes from 2017 onwards, and at the university and diploma engineering programmes from 2019. In the figures from 2018, we can see a decrease in the number of beneficiaries at the business academies, which was reduced in 2017, but for good reasons the 2018 figures do not catch the reductions that were first implemented from 2019 in the universities and the diploma engineering programmes. They are only expected to make full impact in the su figures from 2021, although we will expect to see an effect before that too. As things stand now, I therefore believe that the right thing to do is to take stock of developments and to maintain the reductions in English-language education for the time being. I would like to stress, as I have said before, that I think we should consider whether we can find a more appropriate way of complying with the ceiling on Su expenditure. The method chosen is not without disadvantages. There is therefore no direct link between the number of English-language places of study and the cost of migrant workers. At universities, the majority of students in English-language courses are pæredansk. A limitation of English-language study places therefore also affects Danish students, especially in the universities where they have chosen to reduce the number of English-language study places without having a Danish-language alternative. Some of the universities have chosen to convert courses into Danish or introduce Danish-language elements into an English-language education and thus also require Dansk A for admission. This seems to me to be a sensible way forward in places where it makes sense for the university itself. There may therefore be good reason to consider whether the existing restrictions on English-language training should be adjusted. We have joint responsibility for the development of the social costs of migrant workers. At the same time, I am very concerned about the importance of a sustainable solution that calms the institutions' international approach. To learn more about how the actions work in practice, my ministry is in dialogue with the institutions about their experience in translating the reductions and their work in keeping more international students in employment. The picture we have for the time being from the dialogue with the institutions is that the problem will be tackled in a targeted way, both in terms of reducing the number of international students and in terms of increasing the retention of international graduates. However, there are also challenges, and we have among others. a separate process with DTU about exactly that. I expect my ministry to conclude the dialogue with all the institutions before the summer break. When the consolidated figures for the cost of the cost of migrant workers from 2019 are available, I will convene a meeting in which, among other things, I will meet. in the light of the dialogue with the institutions and the balance sheet for 2019 expenditure, it will be possible to discuss how we handle this most appropriately in the future so that we achieve a good balance between the cost of su and the attraction and retention of international students. Of course, the current situation with the covid-19 crisis presents some challenges. The rapporteur for the questioners has already mentioned this. This affects international student mobility and therefore also our ability to predict developments or the impact on the future. The pandemic and the measures the countries take to deal with it limit the student's desire and opportunity to study in a foreign country. This applies to Danish students who had considered studying abroad, but of course also to foreign students who had considered studying in Denmark. It is still too early to say with certainty how covid-19 will affect the participation of international students in both the short and the long term, but it is expected that there will be a fall in international admission by 2020 as a result of the covid-19. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that we must remember that many of our companies need international students after they have finished studying not only large companies around the larger cities, but companies across the country. It creates jobs when they can recruit the labour they need. We should therefore remember that, despite increasing Su spending overall, international students contribute positively to the Danish economy. The aim must, however, be, as it was for my predecessor, that they contribute even more to the Danish economy if we strike the right balance between the consideration of Su spending and the consideration of receiving and maintaining a certain number of international students, not least in areas where we may lack labour. We therefore have a common challenge that we must solve together. I therefore welcome a political debate on how to achieve this balance. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527101158	Thank you. One brief remark is now available from each of the rapporteurs. The first to sign up is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527101206	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his examination, and I would also like to thank him for the promise that we will actually have to look at removing this ceiling on English-language education, because the way it is managed now is very inflexible and not very appropriate for many of the courses. So I'm really glad about that. I would also like to drill a little more into something else. Part of the crux of the problem here is that there are some EU rules that actually prevent us from making a more flexible regulation of who is actually receiving su, and, to me, that is really the crux of the matter. I know it's hard, but it could be really interesting to discuss whether we could do something about it. It is not English-speaking education that is the problem, because it is a good thing that we have the opportunity to have them too, but it is here that we ourselves cannot regulate better who should have access to su. I would really just like to ask the Minister if there could be any options there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527101313	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527101314	I am, of course, fundamentally in favour of our EU cooperation, because I think it is a great value for Denmark that we have a Europe that is common, and I also think it is a gain that is not what we are seeing at the moment, but basically with the open borders that both goods and people can cross. However, it is clear that, as a Social Democrat, I also have positions on EU cooperation, and here I am very keen that we should be careful that the very fine system does not end up undermining our welfare benefits at the same time, and that is a discussion that I have contributed to for many years. This applies not only to the Su sector, but also to what migrant workers do about social dumping and our workers' rights. It is not the same as that I think we should get out of the European Union or that I am fundamentally sceptical that we are in it, but it just means that I have views on how EU cooperation can work, and I still do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527101421	Then it is Mrs Katrine Robsøe, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527101424	Thank you. I just need the Minister to confirm something, because a lot was said about this, that the Minister will consider what the solutions should be. So I just need the Minister to confirm that the understanding paper that has been prepared is intended to be respected, which is also the basis for the Minister's standing here today and being a minister, and that it is intended to abolish the ceiling on English-language education.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527101451	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527101452	I would very much like to confirm that this understanding paper stands. This is true in relation to the fact that it says that the government must comply with all the settlements, but it also applies to this matter, and I am sure that it would be much better for Denmark if we found a more flexible solution that could replace the ceiling we are seeing today to comply with the compromise that I would like to stress we are, of course, living up to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527101521	Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527101524	Thank you. It was an exciting question and an exciting answer we just got. Therefore, in view of the Minister's speech, I would like to ask whether the Minister can confirm that it is not possible to remove the current ceiling on English-language education until there is a stable solution to ensure that we get the same reduction in migrant workers who come and receive paid training in this country. So, can we be sure that we do not remove a ceiling that seems to have some effect before we have something safe and stable else to put in place?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527101557	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527101558	I would like to confirm that, because it is in keeping with the compromise. This is not the same as the fact that the ceiling cannot be removed if we find something else to replace, and it is a work on which I, on the other hand, would very much like to have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527101612	Then it's Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527101613	As a follow-up to Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl's question I would just like to ask: what is the Minister supposed to do instead of restricting English-language education? Now the Minister has had almost a year to think about, and it is not the case that the Minister has reached out, at least not to the Folketing. I do not know whether the Minister has reached out to the outside world, but it is certainly not something in which the Folketing has been involved. We ourselves have asked for the statement and, as a result of the Minister's having to hand over the statement, we were also having a brief talk in the Ministry, but at that meeting the Minister came with nothing but a praise for the limitation of English-language courses introduced by the previous government. And now we hear that the Minister will remove it without having any alternative whatsoever.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527101709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527101709-2	I have not actually said at any time that I will remove it without having any alternative. I would like to stress that this is not the policy of the government, on the contrary. I think it is an important exercise right now, as I also said in my speech, to try to learn from how that ceiling has been implemented and how it works on the institutions, which is why dialogue with them is also very important. This is relatively new at universities and a little less new at the other institutions, but I think it is absolutely crucial to get their experience in as part of that discussion, and that is a very important part of the work. In addition, however, I also think I have said all the way through that I am very open to that dialogue, and I am also very open to proposals. Because it should not be a secret that there are drawbacks to the ceiling we have right now, and it would be nice if we could go somewhere better; I hope we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527101802	Then it is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527101804	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. I can understand if there is such impatience here on both sides, both from Mrs Flyvholm and from that side of the House, who would like us to take their understanding paper with us, and that the agreements that have been made are being fulfilled, but also from a conciliation group that sits and becomes a little impatient and asks what it is then that needs to be done. So I would like to ask the Minister: what kind of time process is there, both in terms of getting some focus on what measures are needed to ensure that we keep our agreement in the conciliation circle, that is, that it does not increase, and in relation to when it is that the support parties may have the prospect of achieving the understanding paper? And when I hear from the universities out there, I don't exactly hear about dialogue. In fact, some people said to me: we've got the thumb screws on now. So I would like to know what kind of dialogue is going on out there. So this applies both to the time perspective and to what kind of dialogue it is, because I would like to know what kind of process the Minister is running right now in order to find out what action it takes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527101908	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527101909	Well, in order to respond very specifically to the timetable, it is as soon as possible, and in order to answer what kind of dialogue it is, it is very different situations that the institutions are in: some have had several years for this, some have had less time, and some have never had a ceiling, but have entered into a voluntary agreement. That is why, of course, the dialogue reflects that too. If someone feels that they have put on the thumb screws, it can be linked to whether they have proved willing to comply with what has been agreed jointly. It is, of course, my job as minister to work for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527101944	There are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister. Then we are ready to embark on the round of negotiations in accordance with the general rules for short remarks. The first is the rapporteur for the questioners, and that is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527102009	Thank you, and thank you again for the floor, and also thank you to the Minister for your reply. I wouldn't say I got much smarter. I still find that the Minister wants to blow and have flour in his mouth at one and the same time, and as you know, nothing good will come of that. The Minister says in his rhetoric that the understanding paper will be followed, which means that the limitation of English-language education will be abolished, and at the same time the Minister stresses that the defence initiatives, that is to say the restriction, are what work best after all, and thus the safeguard initiative that best delivers on the agreement that we jointly concluded in 2013. We didn't get that much smarter. However, we are currently debating F 51, which is worded as follows: Will the Minister state what the government will do to meet the commitments in the 2013 Su-conciliation on the fixed ceiling on expenditure for migrant workers? The question has been asked by the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Left. The Left is helping to call for the negotiations here because we simply lack some clear answers from the government as to what will then happen in relation to the increasing cost of the Su for migrant workers, which continues to exceed the ceiling of 442 million. kr. agreed in the conciliation circle in 2013. We have also tried to consult in the past in order to become wiser. We weren't. On the contrary, we have not made much progress, and I regret that. However, in 2018, the cost of su for migrant workers amounted to 513 million. kr. During the reign of the VLAK government, a number of protection initiatives were introduced to counter this increase, specifically as mentioned above, a reduction in the number of English-language training places in e.g. vocational colleges and professional academies. We did so because, unfortunately, we could see from the figures that too many of the EU/EEA citizens studying in Denmark leave home after finishing their education, and that is not a very good business for the Danish economy, because in other words we are helping to carry out an educational task on behalf of other countries, and that does not make any sense to me. I fully agree that, overall, it can be a good calculation for Denmark if several English-speaking students choose to establish themselves in Denmark and as a strong supporter of free movement in the European Union, I would also like to be the first to sign for it. But having said that, there is also a reasonable point of view that we have to take into account in this debate, and that is that unfortunately we can see that we are paying out su to too many people who do not intend to stay in Denmark. That is why I also think it is very important that we in the conciliation circle have committed ourselves to monitoring the development of expenditure, to setting a ceiling and to discuss defence initiatives to keep expenditure under control. The VLAK government lived up to that. The same cannot be said of the present government, on the contrary. First, the Minister withheld 2019 reporting on expenditure developments in 2018. 21⁄2 months were to pass from the figures on the Minister's table until they were sent over to the Folketing. Funny, it happened on a Friday at the end of the afternoon on the same day as the government's proposal for a compensatory reform was presented. Secondly, the Minister has done nothing other than to say that the defence initiatives decided by the VLAK government must be maintained until we see the effect, even if the government and the support parties' understanding paper says that those defence initiatives must be removed. So we're back to blowing and having flour in our mouths at the same time. I still need a reply from the Minister as to how the government will comply with the 2013 su agreement and respect the su ceiling while complying with the understanding paper's demand to the contrary. The parties behind this question do not agree with everything, for example. The question of the European Union, but fortunately we agree that the agreements reached in this Parliament must, of course, be respected, otherwise political conciliation will lose its value. That is why we agree that the government must, of course, comply with the 2013 Su Agreement and call the conciliation circle for discussion. On behalf of the questioners, I have a proposal for adoption, and this is what it says: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the cost of su to EU/EEA citizens with migrant status remains increasing and in 2018 amounts to 513 million. kr. Expenditure thus exceeds the ceiling of 442 million. kr., which the Su-Company established in the agreement on a su-reform in 2013. The Danish Parliament notes that the Minister has failed to comply with the agreement of the Association that the Minister is obliged by the conciliation to make proposals on defence initiatives to counter the rise in expenditure. At the same time, the Danish Parliament notes that in 2019 the Minister withheld information for the Danish Parliament on the development of expenditure, which the Minister is obliged to inform the conciliation board annually of. The Danish Parliament instructs the Government to comply with the 2013 Su Agreement and to call the Conciliation Committee for discussion. • V 70).
ParlaMint-DK_20200527102638	Thank you. The proposed adoption will now be included in the further negotiations. Then there are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527102651	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs for her speech. I can understand both from the speech and from the proposal for adoption which was read out that there is some information that the Danish Parliament has been given too late, and I should just like to ask Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, since she is a colleague of the former minister in the post, Mr President. Tommy Ahlers, about how long it took, from mr. Tommy Ahlers got a note in his hands from the official work until it was handed over to the Folketing. Has Mrs Ulla Tørnæs asked her colleague Mr. Tommy Ahlers about how long it took? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527102726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527102727	I haven't. What I am concerned about here is what the current government has done in this context, resisted the government's agreement with the support parties that the defence initiatives that we carefully and with great political care introduced in order to comply with the su agreement in 2013 were committed to abolishing without being able to say a single word about what to put in place, and that is what the challenge is. That's where the politically interesting thing for me is, not whether Mr. Tommy Ahlers was 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 weeks to deliver papers submitted to him. The problem here, however, is that the Minister has no answer whatsoever to what defence initiatives are to replace what the government has agreed with the parties of understanding to abolish.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527102829	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527102830	I agree with the rapporteur: let us put it aside and instead focus on political content. There is, of course, the crux of the matter that the previous government introduced a ceiling on English-language education, and now the very same parties think that that ceiling is not enough and that the government should do further to limit the number of foreign workers in our educational institutions. Then I would just like to ask what the rapporteur's proposals are for what the government should do to meet its obligations, since what the previous government has done is obviously not enough either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527102904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527102905	Oh, I wish it was the Left who sat in the ministerial offices. After all, it is the questioner and the author's party who has the baton and sits in the ministerial office and therefore also has the obligation to provide a bid for what the defence initiatives should be. We are happy to discuss it, but it is the responsibility of the government. It is the government that has the right to play and thus also the opportunity to play. The reason I'm concerned about this is precisely because the government has committed itself to removing the protective initiatives that we know seem to work! So why you have committed yourself to abolishing them... well to mark without having any suggestion of what should then be instead... is a mystery to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527102955	Then it's Mrs. Astrid Carøe, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527102959	Thank you. The rapporteur says in her speech that she is aware that the foreign students who come here are in the big picture a plus for Denmark, i.e. those who stay here; despite the fact that we pay out su to them, they are in the big picture a plus. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it would be possible to imagine that this effort could also be to make even more people stay, so that the plus is even greater, rather than being very focused on this ceiling.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527103029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527103030	Absolutely. As far back as the predecessor of the Minister's predecessor, Mr. Esben Lunde Larsen, initiatives were taken to ensure that this group of students, i.e. the group of migrant workers, became closely associated with the Danish labour market, for example. In the form of an internship, instead of going back to your country of origin and internship in a company, you could be internship in a Danish company with a view to hopefully ensuring a closer connection with the Danish labour market. So yes, that is a very, very good idea, but that does not change the fact that a broad majority, including the author's party, has agreed on a ceiling. And we in the Left are actually concerned to ensure that we comply with the agreements that we enter into here in the Folketing. Otherwise, it makes no sense for us to conclude political agreements. I have not heard the Minister reach out and ask: should we not look at the ceiling? I have not heard the Minister mention anything about that at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527103140	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527103143	Thank you. I am very pleased that the rapporteur would also like to take a look at these efforts. Something else I am thinking about is the fact that the rapporteur is obviously relatively dissatisfied with the fact that we, the government and the support parties, have agreed to remove the ceiling on English-language education, but we are told from both universities and industry that they think that the ceiling is unwise and clumsy. What is the rapporteur's position on this? Does the rapporteur not see the problems of this ceiling that we have decided to abolish?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527103209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527103211	The whole point for me here is that we have made a political agreement in the Folketing back in 2013. I am concerned that the agreements we are making are being complied with. And with the understanding paper prepared jointly by the government with the author's party, there is the prospect of a breach of a political agreement of which my party is a part. And I simply do not agree with that; it cannot just pass that way, because then it makes no sense at all for us to make political agreements in here. So I want to respect the agreements that are being made and we cannot just cancel agreements in the context of a new agreement concluded with some others.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527103300	Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527103302	In fact, I would like to ask a little follow-up to what the previous question asked. One thing is the agreement and I do not think this is a breach of the agreement, by the way, but I really do not care, because we are not part of the agreement, but what is at the heart of this is whether it is wise or not to have such a ceiling on English-language education. I am absolutely sure that it is very unwise to have it because it is extremely inflexible. And you can see that both universities and the other educational institutions are sad, you can see that the business community is sad, and you can see some of these stories, for example. foreign students who live and live in Denmark and have a Danish girlfriend and still cannot be allowed to take their international education at the medium level. Well, that's problematic. I am sure that the rapporteur is also well aware of the great knowledge the rapporteur has about this area. So frankly, the rapporteur does not see that there is something here that is a challenge if you are to have the best possible study life and working life in Denmark, that is to say that you have created as rigid a ceiling as you have here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527103404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527103406	I find it very difficult to imagine that Mrs Eva Flyvholm and I could agree on exactly what we want our Su system to look like and our education system at all. But what is the hops here is that in the way we have set up our su system, migrant workers can come to Denmark and get free training with su and return home. Unfortunately, we have seen inappropriate traffic there, and that is the traffic we have wanted to have under control. That is why the conciliation parties have set a ceiling. What the debate is about here is respecting that ceiling, and we are actually concerned about that in the Left. We do not want there to be an open barn door and Danish taxpayers risk having to finance a training obligation which is actually incumbent on other EU Member States.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527103515	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527103516	In fact, I very much share the rapporteur's concern. I think we pay su to too many of these foreign students because of EU rules. I fully agree with the rapporteur on this. I just don't think the solution is to create a very, very inflexible ceiling on English-language education when both education and business and students say it doesn't work very well. That is just what I would like to hear the rapporteur's opinion on. Is it really sensible to have a ceiling that is so inflexible and looks the way it does now? I think the rapporteur owes it to him to answer this question when he has now called the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527103554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527103555	This is the method agreed by a broad majority of the Folketing without Mrs Flyvholm's party. This is the handle that the Danish Parliament has taken on the best possible handle in order to manage that the costs in this area do not explode, and to ensure that we do not have to finance other countries' educational obligations towards their own citizens. So it is a broad majority in the Folketing that agrees that this is the handle we have to hold on to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527103631	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Kasper Sand Kjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527103644	Thank you for the floor. Thank you to the rapporteurs of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance for raising this debate. And, of course, my good colleagues want answers to what the government will do to meet the commitments in the conciliation on the fixed ceiling on expenditure for migrant workers. As the question indicates, the conciliation provides for a ceiling on the amount of money to be paid to migrant workers. And we have quite rightly seen that in recent years the rate of unemployment for migrant workers has risen to a level above the ceiling agreed jointly. In the Social Democratic Party, we will, of course, abide by the agreements that we have made with those with whom we have concluded them. We agreed at the time to impose a ceiling on expenditure on migrant workers in the family, and now we have to find a way of delivering that agreement together. That is why it is a relevant discussion which is being raised today, but it is also an issue which, frankly, it seems that none of us immediately has the final solution to. The former VLAK government introduced a ceiling on the number of places in English-language courses in order to limit the participation of EU citizens in education. There are various reasons why that ceiling is not an optimal solution. And frankly, I guess it's really a little clumsy. But that does not change the fact that so far the ceiling is the best offer of a solution that we have. In the most recent figures we have over su expenditure, the effect of the ceiling has not yet been achieved at all, which is why we still have the benefit of seeing the full effect of the ceiling on English-language education. And that is why, frankly, I also think that it is just too early to criticise the government, even before we have seen the effects of the measures that have already been taken. But when we want to abolish the ceiling on the English-language courses that we have agreed with the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten that we would do that, with respect for the su-conciliation of course, it is because the ceiling, which I call a little clumsy, both hits Danish students it hits their opportunities for an education with an international outlook, an international study environment and at the same time tightens the margins for the educational institutions to train for business demand for labour. Today, our business community benefits greatly from the international graduates who, after completing their training, take a job in a Danish company and contribute to the community through their tax payments. The art is, therefore, that while we are restricting the involvement of EU citizens in education, as we have agreed in the su-conciliation, we must also ensure that as many as possible of those who still come to Denmark and train themselves will become and contribute with their competences after the end of education. It is good for education, it is good for companies, and it is certainly good for the Treasury too. But perhaps most importantly, international students and the international study environment that they help create are crucial to our young people's being best dressed for the future • to create the next solutions and the next products that can lead to new jobs in our companies and that can strengthen Denmark's position in global competition. So there are many good reasons to be sceptical about whether the ceiling imposed by the previous government is exactly the right one. But that does not, of course, change the fact that we stand by the agreement we have made on managing the Su expenditure on foreign students. That is why I am very much looking forward to the dialogue that we are going to have today. And I am very excited to hear the speakers from the rapporteurs of the parties who have raised the question. What are these opportunities that you see that we have to live up to the su compromise together? How do we ensure that we strike the right balance, on the one hand, in keeping with the agreement we have made with each other to have a hand in dealing with Su spending, without, on the other hand, weakening the professional environments of training and the ability of companies to recruit the workforce they need? I really hope that the question debate we are going to have today will provide some answers to that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527104049	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527104053	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I can hear that the rapporteur is very keen to see this ceiling abolished on English-language education and questions are asked about what alternatives are available. The problem is that, as a starting point, this is the option that we have seen working. That is why I have to be absolutely sure of what the rapporteur says. In other words, the rapporteur says that you will live up to the agreements you make. We have a settlement that has been reached here in the Folketing. And then the rapporteur's party has also produced a paper of understanding with some other parties, which they also say they want to live up to. For me, these two things cannot be done at once. So how will the rapporteur live up to both agreements when you cannot even have some suggestions as to what to replace? How can this be done? Are those just words?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527104145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527104147	I can reassure the questioner that, of course, we will not remove the ceiling on English-language education until we have something better to put instead. It is then our intention during the parliamentary term that we can abolish the ceiling on English-language education and replace them with better protection, so that we still live up to the su-conciliation and to the understanding paper that we have agreed with the parties that support the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527104213	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527104214	But I have to hear that it is impossible to imagine abolishing the ceiling during this period if you do not have the other solution. It's a good guarantee to have, because then we'll be sure we have the ceiling until somebody finds the right and good solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527104233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527104234	That is quite correct. We want to live up to all the compromises we have reached, and we have a very clear agreement in the su compromise that we must take care of the su-costs for migrant workers, and of course we stand by that. But that does not change the fact that we can well have an ambition, together with some other parties, to replace the protection introduced by the previous government with a more intelligent protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527104259	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527104300	I would feel cheated if I were the Social Democrat support party. For the rapporteur is standing here saying that we have no better offer than what the previous government did, but for the sake of understanding paper I have to repeat what it says, otherwise the Radical Left and the SF will only be saddened. How does it feel to have to stand and just say something that one well knows does not become a reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527104331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527104332	There are, of course, many good reasons why the Left is not a party to the government's support, although at some point it was the policy of the Left that one wanted to be. But I just want to say that I have complete peace of mind standing here and saying that we have an ambition to replace the slightly clumsy ceiling introduced by the previous government, over English-language education with better and more intelligent safeguards, which do not involve the same challenges as the ceiling today. And that's what politics is. It is to find the solution so that we can do what we are all passionate about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527104405	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527104406	But can the rapporteur simply, for the sake of decency, lift the veil of what intelligent defence initiatives are supposed to replace what the rapporteur calls the clumsy ceiling on English-language education?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527104424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527104425	I must be quite honest and say that I do not have a list of proposals with me today. I would very much like to hear all the input from all the parties in the Danish Parliament on what it might be that we could replace the ceiling on English-language education with which I am actually also sure the questioner can see that there are challenges. So perhaps we could sit down together in the su-conciliation circle and find out if there was no better way than the ceiling that we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527104450	Thank you. I have no further brief comments to make. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527104506	Thank you. I think I am the only one in the Chamber today who helped to negotiate this agreement back in 2013. That's why I thought I'd actually get to grips with the deal, because there are more things in the deal than just the amount limit thing. After all, it is an agreement that was concluded on 18 April 2013 with the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left, the SF, the Left, the Conservative People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party, and precisely this point, paragraph 10 of the agreement was for the Danish People's Party at the heart of it. At the time, this challenge was not so great, but a judgment had just been passed that gave the migrant workers this right, and therefore it was very important for us to get to grips with it. In the agreement there is, among other things. a description of this judgment and what the practice is, namely that you have to be here and have 10-12 hours of work a week, and then there is a point called follow-up which reads: "Parties note that the verdict involves additional costs for the SU and note that the government will incorporate the current estimate of 200 million. kr. after tax and backflow on the future financial laws. It is then the amount that before tax and backflow today is 442 million. kr. The parties agree to follow developments, it also says. After all, it is the annual balance sheet statements which the Ministry will present on the expenditure: If the development differs significantly from the forecast, the parties undertake to secure funding in the area of the SU and to initiate appropriate safeguards initiatives within the conciliation circle. On the one hand, it is protection initiatives that are about limiting the amount that is coming and, if we cannot do so, we have actually committed ourselves at that time to saying that we have a framework for su. So in principle we have to go in now when the amount is exceeded and put the su down for everyone. This is certainly not something I wish we could do, but we have actually agreed on that at the time. Then comes a point which we have not discussed at all and which I would very much like the Government's response to how to live up to. It says: Denmark will work actively in any relevant European context to promote the prerequisites for maintaining the current Danish SU system. What this is all about is working in the European Union on how to change these rules. Mrs Eva Flyvholm mentioned this a little earlier. The basics of this problem are not that there are some foreign students who would like to study in Denmark and that we would like some to come and that it also gives quality to both the programmes and the companies afterwards. The problem is that it is not up to us in Denmark to decide this. The problem is that young people who come up here have the right to go in and take an education. In the past, we actually decided who we invited, how many we invited, and what we thought was a reasonable balance in relation to our education systems. I have to admit that it has been a bit uphill, whether it has been one government or another, to ensure that the European Union was actively working for this. We have discussed this many times over the years, and we will certainly discuss it again. For, unfortunately, this is obviously not so high on the agenda, but it is actually part of this agreement. Among other things, it could. It has also been discussed that you should make a profit principle. We are now being asked about alternatives to restricting the number of English-speaking students. An income principle, so you should have been x number of years in Denmark before you could even apply for an education, just as we have earned our folk pension, you could also have here. There would be nothing wrong with that. If we cannot solve it in any other way, we have also committed ourselves to reshaping the Su system. That would be something I definitely don't think we should either. I really like our su system. Actually, I think it's really good to have a security for the students. But if we cannot come up with other defence initiatives, that is one of the ways. The agreement also states that the parties take note of the fact that the demand for the relevance of higher education to the Danish labour market has increased. This actually means that if it is not relevant for the labour market in Denmark to have English-language courses, why should they be there? Most of the new Master's degree programmes are in English. We heard earlier today that it was said that when English-language courses have been restricted, they have been places where they have not been converted into Danish. And no, they're not there. But there is nothing that has prevented the educational institutions from offering the courses in Danish, so that the Danish students were certainly not restricted by it. So you could say that the core of this is that we're not so square in terms of whether to have one or the other solution. But we're pretty square, considering that we need a solution, and we have to keep this line. And then I would hope that the government will go down to the European Union and change the rules so that we can get rid of this discussion in the future. That would be the happiest solution at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527105022	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kasper Sand Kjær from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527105028	Thank you. I thought I heard the rapporteur say that converting the sugar into one of the ways we can go if we do not reduce the cost of the sugar for migrant workers to the ceiling we have agreed in the conciliation group. Will the rapporteur not elaborate on what it means to reschedule the sugar and that it may be one of the ways we can go? What's in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527105057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527105058	It is not, in fact, a road I want to go, but it is one of the necessary consequences if we cannot steer it in any other way. There has been talk in the past about whether one could then give the su as a loan that had a tax value if you stayed in Denmark, or that one could otherwise change the su systems, so that it was ensured that at least one did not come here and took an education and went home again. Because it can be said that this is what we experienced at one time in a very, very serious way at the business academies, where they actually advertised in various Eastern European countries that they could come up here and get free education. It was a whole lot that made them teams with kids who came up here and took the education and went home again. So that's also what we need to make sure doesn't happen. It could be a road, but I don't want it. I want to maintain the su system as it is, but then put up some defenses that make us actually be able to decide for ourselves and control who comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527105159	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527105201	However, it could be a way to go. I think that there are many students who, if they follow today's debate, are happy that it is no longer the rapporteur's party that has the decisive mandates in the Folketing, because that would mean, de facto, that you would have to cut the su if that were the way you went. However, the rapporteur also says, and I am glad that it is not, but can the rapporteur make some suggestions as to what further measures could be taken to ensure that we can meet the su compromise together?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527105231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527105232	Well, first of all, I think that the ultimate defence initiative is to create a new agreement with the European Union and ensure that we can actually decide for ourselves who comes here. It is, in fact, the primary thing, and it was also the primary thing for us at the time. That you got it into the deal. In fact, in several of the welfare areas, we have some particularly good rules in Denmark because we have the welfare society that we now have, and that causes some imbalances when we in the European Union then have the rights to draw on that welfare system. So basically we had to tackle that part and make sure that we managed it ourselves at home, and that we, for example, had to deal with it ourselves. had an income right to su.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527105315	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. I would like to welcome Mrs Katrine Robsøe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527105326	Thank you for the floor. I do not know if it is just me who is here a little with the feeling that we probably know about what most people are going to say here from the platform in this debate. This does not make the debate any less important, because I think it is a very important issue, but I will try to make it a little short when I make my points. International students are a good business for Denmark. They contribute to both strong and professional environments in our education programmes, but they also contribute money to the Treasury. So they're in dollars and ears a good business. But, of course, I would like to help ensure that this will be an even better business, because it must of course be the goal to maintain as many international students after completing education as possible, so that they can also contribute to our labour market once they have taken an education in this country. So I'd really like to take a look at that. I think we also talked about the last time we had this topic... I mentioned it at least the last time we had this topic for debate in the Chamber... that they actually also take some of the training that is required in our labour market. So it's insanely important that we get a look at how we can keep more. I would urge the Minister to convene a proper meeting so that we can actually see what opportunities there are for both abolishing the ceiling on English-language courses and meeting the compromise on su, because the current situation is not sustainable. It is not sustainable for our educations, which are subject to a rigid ceiling, nor is it sustainable for the government, because it says in the understanding paper that is the basis of the government that they are obliged to abolish the ceiling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527105544	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527105546	Yeah, thanks for that. I get déjà vu from last week. It was a bit the same discussions and the same questions. But I still need to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not respect our agreement in the conciliation circle, so that we cannot abolish the ceiling on English-language education until we have an alternative solution that ensures that we get the same limit on migrant workers who come up here and get free training.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527105618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527105619	Well, I would like to repeat what I said last week, namely that we are, of course, living up to the compromises that we have reached. I hope everyone in here does. In fact, I think that the rapporteur from the Left said it very well, that is to say that it is kind of a premise for us to be able to make agreements here in the Danish Parliament. But I would just like to point out that it is not a correct premise to stand up for the fact that there should be similarities between abolishing the ceiling and then not complying with the su-conciliation; the two things are not directly related. But it is true that we have a su-conciliation, of course, and we live up to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527105659	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527105700	I am glad to hear it, because then I hear that this agreement, which we have made in this Parliament on su, is above the understanding paper which talks about abolishing the ceiling. Because if abolishing the ceiling does not comply with the su agreement at the same time, the ceiling will not be abolished. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527105725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527105727	I do not quite understand it, because both are actually mentioned in the understanding paper. It has also been said here in the past that the conciliation agreements must be respected and that the ceiling must be abolished. And you can easily abolish the ceiling on English-language courses and then at the same time comply with the su-conciliation, and that is why I say: I cannot understand that a proper meeting is not being convened so that we could actually discuss what solutions we can find here. Because I think it should be in everyone's interest for us to find a better solution than the one that is at present.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527105801	Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527105804	After all, Mrs Katrine Robsøe is the support party to the government and has therefore at least nodded to the understanding paper as a prerequisite for the formation of the government, and I would therefore like to ask whether the rapporteur is satisfied that the Minister has stressed that she wants to see the impact of the defence initiatives introduced by the previous government before considering any other defence initiatives at all. Is the rapporteur satisfied with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527105840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527105841	I think that the Minister should have a meeting called so that we can actually have a look at this. It is, of course, quite fundamental whether we actually believe that the ceiling created by the previous government is the best safeguard against this. At any rate, I see enormous challenges in the fact that both our business community and our educational institutions are pointing out major problems with this initiative, so I cannot actually fully understand if the questioner is not also interested in finding a better solution, so for example. business and also our educational institutions can have a better solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527105925	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527105927	We are certainly not opposed to better solutions, but we have just heard no bid, at all, for any better solution. My question to Mrs Robsøe is therefore again: is the rapporteur satisfied that there is no prospect of that part of the understanding paper becoming reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527105949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527105950	But I simply do not agree with what the questioner is asking, namely that there should be no prospect of having that part of the understanding paper fulfilled, because I think there is, and I think the Minister knows that I expect that too. That is also why I say very clearly that I call for a meeting to be convened so that we can actually have a look at this. Because I do not think it is sustainable for us to continue to have consultation and questions and all sorts of things. Although this is an important issue and I am extremely happy to discuss it, I would rather find a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527110024	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Has one more brief comment been made? Yeah, and we'll take it with us. There is a brief comment from Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527110035	[Sound emission]... Are there any indications of that? What do you see? So, from the Danish People's Party there were some proposals just before to say: there we have to look at what can be done. But it seems as if Katrine Robsøe, on the one hand, says that we must abide by an agreement and, on the other hand, that we must do away with this as soon as possible. It sounds almost as if you are ready to abolish the ceiling more quickly than we find some other alternatives. But if there is to be a meeting here as soon as possible and everything has to be done as soon as possible, what are the proposals that the speaker has?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527110115	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527110116	Now I would actually like to say something about what the rapporteur on the Left said: it is the case that there is a slightly larger thinking apparatus in a ministry, so I hope the Minister has started that. And I'd love to think with you. In any case, I would like us to make it less rigid so that we can find a better solution. Actually, I think we're all best off with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527110143	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527110144	And what is the time perspective on the part of the speaker? What's as soon as possible? Can it wait till the fall for Christmas? I've heard that as soon as possible. So what's as soon as possible for you?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527110157	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527110159	Well, I'd run if the minister called a meeting right after this debate. But I hope that it will be just as soon as possible so that we can actually have a qualified discussion of this when the Minister calls. And I remember that somewhere was said that there were just some things that had to be done. But I will certainly push for it, because I do not think it can wait forever.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527110225	Thank you to Mrs Katrine Robsøe. There are no more brief comments and I would like to welcome Mrs Astrid Carøe from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527110235	Thank you. Today we are once again discussing the problem of migrant workers. For SF, it is first and foremost important to say that students from other EU and EEA countries are a benefit for Denmark: for educational institutions, where they contribute to creating international study and research environments, for our companies that need them as a labour force, for our entire society. This is the case in financial terms, where overall they contribute positively, as well as culturally, that we meet, gain insight and live across EU and EEA countries. And not least that they will act as ambassadors for Denmark. The value cannot be made up in crowns and ears, it cannot be measured and weighed, it cannot be squeezed into a spreadsheet. But it is of great value. In 2013, the European Court of Justice ruled that EU citizens and EEA citizens travelling to Denmark for study have the right to receive asylum provided they acquire the status of migrant workers. On the basis of the judgment, we decided in the Su contract circle that expenditure on migrant workers should not exceed 442 million. kr. And we agreed that appropriate defence initiatives should be undertaken. We still have that deal in the SF. One of the protection initiatives carried out by the previous government was a ceiling on the number of English-language study places in higher education. This is an initiative that we have agreed on in the understanding paper must be removed. We believe that it must be wiser. The educational institutions do not think it is wise, the business community does not think it is wise. When the ceiling was introduced, universities said that in future they had to say no to several Italian IT geeks, French physicists and German engineering students. This despite the fact that Danish companies needed employees with the skills and that we are now missing out on a lot of talents. When we say in the SF that it must be wiser, it is because we are concerned to ensure that the English-language courses we have are of high quality and relevant in the labour market. At the same time, we believe that it is important to maintain more students from EU and EEA countries after completing their studies. If we maintain more students, the total gain for Denmark will be even greater. It is therefore the parameters that we in the SF think make sense that we are politically steering. With that said, I would like to say once again that we stand by the agreement, because there are usually questions about it. But we also stand firm on the content of the understanding paper. The ceiling must be removed during this parliamentary term, and we expect the government to do so, of course. Finally, on behalf of the SF and the Social Democratic Party and the Radical Left, I would like to read the following: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the agreed ceiling on Su expenditure for migrant workers from 2013 has been exceeded in 2017 and 2018. However, the increase in expenditure seems to be flattening. The Danish Parliament also notes that international students can be an important factor for Danish companies' ability to recruit labour, and that overall they contribute positively to the Danish economy. For the Folketing, it is crucial that the government removes the ceiling on English language education during this term as agreed in the understanding paper. The Danish Parliament therefore calls on the government to examine other options for defence initiatives with the aim of removing the ceiling for English-language courses, while at the same time finding the right balance in relation to Su-expenditure on migrant workers. The Danish Parliament notes that the Government has provisionally chosen to continue the reductions in the number of study places in English-language courses introduced by the VLAK Government in 2017 and 2018. V 71)
ParlaMint-DK_20200527110621	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527110626	Thank you. Now the rapporteur said that the rapporteur stands at conciliation, and that is a good thing to hear. With regard to trying to think wiser, I would say that I have been trying for many years to find some wiser ideas and that I have not been able to think of them, but I hope that the rapporteur or the government can. But what I really want to ask is: Will SF help us to get an income principle for su, just as we do for the folk pension so that you have to have been in Denmark for a long time to have the opportunity to get su?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527110658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527110659	I think it is really important that we respect the agreements we have made in the European Union. But I also think that what we have written in the agreement is sensible: that the government will, of course, continue to examine what is possible in the EU system so that we do not exceed this ceiling. So I cannot answer it on a stand-by basis, but I think it is important that we also look in the direction that the rapporteur mentioned earlier in his speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527110721	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527110722	That was almost a non-answer. In other words, will SF help us to create an opportunity to actually have a profit principle for su? It does not say that we have to break some rules, but that we actually have it in advance for the retirement pension and could do something similar for su. Will the SF help to work for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527110749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527110750	We in the SF will help to look at all the possibilities that are available for us to live up to this ceiling that we have agreed in the Su-Conciliation Group together. When the Minister convenes a meeting, we must also discuss it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527110806	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527110807	When does the rapporteur expect the lateness of English-language training in the understanding paper to be completed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527110817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527110818	I hope we can implement this as soon as possible, but I expect this ceiling to be abolished before the next elections, as we have agreed on in the understanding paper.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527110830	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527110831	What protection initiative does the rapporteur expect to take the place?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527110850	In fact, I think it is very positive to hear that the Minister has reached out to the institutions and said: what can we do? What are you thinking? Especially since the institutions have said in the past that this ceiling is unwise, it is very clever to have them in the process. So I hope that the government will come up with something that we can negotiate from in cooperation with the institutions, which knows what is going on out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527110911	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The read-out proposal for adoption will, of course, be included in the further negotiations. We move on to Mrs Eva Flyvholm from Enhedslisten, De Red-Greenne. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527110933	Thank you for the opportunity for us to have this debate. Basically, I think it is very positive that we have foreign students in Denmark. I also think it is very positive that Danish students go abroad and study abroad. I believe that this can both contribute to a somewhat greater understanding and coherence of the world around us and that it can help provide a good study environment and that it can also help bring some people here to the country, which is also needed in, among other things. some of the technical subjects, IT, engineers, etc. So basically, I think there are a lot of good things about that. From the outset, I thought that this ceiling on the English-language courses introduced was extremely inflexible. There were a lot of stories about people who needed to take the education in English because they subsequently had to have a more international working life or lived here with their boyfriends or spouses and had just moved to the country and perhaps not yet been quite skilled enough to take an education in Danish etc. I think that it has affected badly in many ways, and that is why I am very pleased that we have agreed jointly in the paper of understanding that this ceiling on English-language education should be abolished. But having said that, I have to say that there is a very obvious problem here, because it is very, very strange that it is the case in Denmark that all EU citizens can be entitled to su when they just come here as migrant workers. It's obvious. It was a legislation that came after the EU judgment handed down in 2013 which, like it or not, had to be said that everyone should have su, and that is strange. This is not the case, even with foreign students coming from non-EU countries. There is then an imbalance there, and that is a problem, and the problem at the heart of it is because we can see that it is being very much abused for social dumping. 3F has been able to demonstrate many times that there are simply some unscrupulous employers here who make sure to give people who are also students some really bad underpaid jobs in, for example. The catering industry, where they go to a very, very low wage and, at the same time, often find that they get paid. We have an example with a Romanian guy named Max, who worked in a sandwich shop where he just went to a worse salary, but at the same time, when Max was going to have this wretched little salary he already got, he could also just subtract the su from it, because it got Max from the Danish state. It is quite obvious that it is an exploitation of the su system, which we must by no means model, because it is quite crazy that our common money should be put into the pockets of unscrupulous employers who are underpaying and exploiting foreign students, and it is very important for us that we should also get rid of it. But I think the right solution is another. Instead of going and looking at all the patches that this ceiling on English-language education is also an expression of, we need to look at how we can actually ensure that we can be allowed to protect our labour market and our welfare system in a sensible way here in Denmark. This means that we need to get into that talk about how we can change the EU rules that make it impossible for us to make proper legislation on this right now. How we could possibly get some Danish exceptions, which would make it possible for us to be more secure against this social dumping and these problems of exploitation of the system, is, of course, the discussion that I think we need to have basically. I was also pleased that the Minister recognised this problem of social dumping when I asked about it earlier, because it is very, very important that we look at the fact that our common money should not be used for that. This is really a mess we have to deal with. So I am glad we have the opportunity to have this discussion, but I think we just have to point out that this ceiling on English-language education is not a sensible solution. That is why we must also have it abolished, but we need to have the more fundamental discussion about what we are going to do with the system here, and that also requires a relationship with the European Union. I'm sorry, I forgot that I had a proposal for adoption, and I had to read it too, but I have 30 seconds to do it. These are proposals for adoption by the Enhedslisten. Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that Su-expenditure on migrant workers has increased explosively following the intervention of the European Court of Justice in the Danish Su-system in 2013 and that the ceiling on expenditure has been exceeded. The Danish Parliament notes that the Danish trade union movement has shown that unscrupulous employers abuse the Su system and exploit European students from Eastern Europe in particular for social dumping. This is because the EU rules on the non-regulated mobility of workers prevent the maintenance of the Danish rules, which helped protect our labour market and secured the su-system from exploitation. The Danish Parliament notes that international students from both EU countries and non-EU countries are welcome to study in this country as long as it takes place on fixed terms and welcomes the government's commitment to removing the ceiling on English-language courses with the adoption of the understanding paper. The Danish Parliament calls on the government to ensure that the Danish Parliament itself decides on welfare and labour market policy, possibly in the form of a Danish derogation from EU rules. • V 72). Thanks, and I'm sorry I'm late.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527111517	There is no delay at all. The rules are made in such a way that you can read out your proposal for adoption beyond your speaking time. So you can calmly speak slowly and clearly so that all colleagues can understand it. You should've said that before! ) That's an old rule. But thank you to Mrs Eva Flyvholm. There are no brief comments. And a warm welcome to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527111553	Thank you. It is good to see that even experienced members of parliament like Mrs Flyvholm still have something to learn in here too. I think I learn something every day. With the su settlement in 2013, we helped introduce a cap on su for foreign students of 440 million. kr. And as the Minister mentioned at the outset, this ceiling has been exceeded over and over again. We are awaiting the 2019 figures, but it also looks as if it was exceeded there. So it's been a lot of years now that this hasn't really worked well enough. At the same time, there is also a debt from foreign students of 623 million. kr. That's a lot. So we really have an economic challenge. There is no doubt that we need English-language students in Denmark. I think we all agree on that. We are all well aware of which students make a net contribution to our economy and to maintain a certain quality of study, for example. at the IT University. They simply cannot offer their courses if they do not have English-language courses. It is also extremely important in relation to DTU; we scream at engineers, and at the same time they have put on the thumb screws. SDU has converted several programmes, even to Danish, they have even had to abolish some. This is the problem when we live in an international and global world. However, as financially responsible parties that take care of taxpayers' money, we simply need to find a solution now if we are to move anything else. I mean, we can't just say that we're going to remove that ceiling. It's not going to work out even if we really want to, but we have to find the measures that we need to do to keep this ceiling at all times and hopefully not have the high costs for foreign students, that is, if they don't stay here afterwards and make an effort. So I would certainly appreciate it very much if I could hear it in January as soon as possible, and I hear it here in the near future in June too, being summoned to a meeting with the Minister and our circle, so that we can discuss this seriously on a, what can be said, informed basis in relation to all the thought goods of all those who may sit in the department, so that we have a proper basis for discussing the situation we are in. Because otherwise we can go on standing here before about the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527111836	Thank you to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. There are no brief comments. Once you have read out your proposal for adoption, it is the President's duty to say that it is part of the negotiations so that we can have it included in the minutes and so does Mrs Flyvholm's proposal for adoption. We are therefore moving on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527111915	Thank you. New citizens are against foreigners, and I hear that there are several other parties. And, if not all, the vast majority at least believe that we must keep to the ceiling we have and, therefore, that we pay too much su to foreigners. New citizens last week tabled a motion for a resolution to reserve su to Danish citizens, but there was no support for that. So we are paying out su to foreigners, even if we do not want it, and we are doing so because it is the European Union that is imposing it on us. After all, the European Court of Justice tends to interpret the rules very creatively, so just coming here and having a job of 10-12 hours makes you entitled to su. That figure may well go down if you look at the precedent that has otherwise been in other cases. So if a case is brought, one can imagine that one can get down to 4-5 hours of work and then still have the right to su in Denmark. And that doesn't make any sense at all. After all, it is problematic that we ourselves do not have the opportunity to determine the legislation we want to have in Denmark, and then we will have to do these backward things because we cannot really do what we want to do because of the European Union. Then you do what you have done here by capping English-language education, even if there is no desire for it. The Socialist rapporteur called it clumsy. However, we do not really have a chance to change that unless we dare to go down and confront the European Union and try to work to be able to control our legislation ourselves. This applies not only to su, but also to many other areas in which we will have problems. Today's discussion has gone on how we comply with the ceiling of 442 million. kr., while there is a desire to abolish the ceiling for English language courses. There is no reason for me to mention what many other rapporteurs have also said. I do not think we have really received an answer as to how the two things are connected or what is to replace them. But I look forward to it that we may get answers at some point. So, yes, thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527112142	You're welcome. There are no brief comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Henrik Dahl for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527112151	As we have heard, in 2013 S, R, SF, V, K, DF and LA made an overall agreement on su, including how to regulate the conditions of so-called migrant workers in the light of a recent EU judgment at that time. However, for the sake of Enhedslisten, which is not part of the 2013 agreement, the government has chosen to ignore parts of the old agreement from then on. And I have to say that I feel a bit like the stork Annika, who has lived safely and well in the same nest for a long time, but now has been chased out by a completely unrelated stork couple who have taken over power in poor Annika's stork. It is a terrible situation to be in, and I have great compassion for the stork Annika. But let's dig a little bit into this case. After all, we have heard from the only eyewitness left in the Chamber, Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, that there was a circle of parties that made a clear deal. We have to keep the budget for students from the other EU countries below a limit which at that time was about 200 million. kr., which has now reached 442 million. kr. According to the 2013 agreement, Denmark shall work in all relevant EU forums to ensure that the conditions for the existing system are maintained and, if that is not possible, and then I quote from the 2013 agreement: the parties undertake, if necessary, to reschedule the su system. After all, as I have just said, we are part of this agreement which has been in force for over seven years, and that is why, firstly, we have the expectation that any government involved in the conciliation will give the conciliation precedence over all possible other partial agreements, not least in cases where it is a partial agreement which affects su and which has been concluded with parties not included in the 2013 agreement. Whether the government actually respects that principle, I am not quite convinced, even though the rapporteur from the S says that this is the case. Secondly, we expect negotiations to be convened very soon on the basis of the original agreement, which is quite clear. What has been done in the European Union and how can the system be changed or defended in some way that the parties to the agreement can agree on? After all, these are negotiations that we are certainly looking forward to being invited to, because we naturally assume that the current government will keep to the agreement it helped to conclude in 2013. We welcome the proposal for adoption which we are in and which has already been read out, and we are, of course, pleased to have this important debate raised. With that remark, I thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527112519	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527112523	I'd like to sign for the dramatic picture of the stork. Nature can be both tough and amazing. Now, of course, we have also had the pleasure of being educational rapporteurs at the same time in the past, and there I think I can recall that in many areas the rapporteur actually insisted on the fact that education institutions themselves should also be allowed to decide much more and that we should not have just as much state control over everything. That is why, frankly, I would like to ask about this very, very rigid ceiling on English-language education: does the rapporteur really think that this is such a super good idea in terms of content? Is it appropriate for our study environment and business in Denmark that it looks like this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527112614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527112615	That's a very good question. It is true that I think that in general we respect too little the autonomy of educational institutions. But not least the Danish People's Party has raised a number of debates over the years, and Mrs Flyvholm has been rapporteur on several of them, on English languages in higher education etc. If you just spoke English in these courses, which are claimed to be English-speaking, I would be happy, but you speak pidgin on many of them, and I am rather sceptical about that. So all these pidgin educations, for my sake, we can do without them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527112651	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527112655	But is it simply to be understood that the rapporteur believes that because it is too bad an English language being spoken in these programmes, one would like to create a hard-core ceiling which neither education, students nor industry is particularly pleased with? The rapporteur thinks this is appropriate because it is too miserable English that is being spoken, or how is that to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527112712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527112713	In fact, it has to be understood that way. We should not overbureaucratize everything, but I think in a way that a pidgin police should be sent out that could simply look a little closer at all this pidgin that is being spoken. Because it is also a problem in business and it is a problem in many places. One simply does oneself a disservice if one has received an education on pidgin and thinks it is in English.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527112740	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then the trip has come to the Minister of Education and Research. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527112752	Thank you. After all, we have people in this Chamber who want us out of the European Union and people who want even more freedom of movement; we have people in this Chamber who want to raise the sugar while others want to lower the sugar; we have people in this Chamber who some want more English-language education, while others want fewer. In other words, we have gathered a great many different opinions. One of the things I think is the strength of our Parliament and our way of leading a country is that, despite all that, we still settle, where we make agreements with each other, and across government changes, we keep them as well. That also applies to this government. Of course, we are complying with the common agreement we have with each other. Nevertheless, can we discuss whether the way in which that agreement can be respected can be improved? Yeah, I really think so. Nevertheless, can we discuss, as several people have done, the very essence of the fact that we are in this situation and whether it can be dealt with differently? Yeah, I think so, too. In this way, I would like to thank you for having, I think, had a discussion which has come around very well, which has highlighted many of the various issues here and which also shows us, I think, as a Parliament that embraces widely. It's a strength for all of us. It is also a force, I think, to follow up on the things we introduce, listen to the people who experience the effect in everyday life, and constantly practice to become better. And that is basically what the government, with the support parties, has said that we would like to do in the context of the su-conciliation, within the framework of the joint agreement we have with each other, to practice doing better than what we see today. There will be a discussion about the very framework of this: what is the EU framework within which we operate? And I would also like to acknowledge that to those of you who have raised that discussion. I think it is healthy that we should take the discussion, for example, that freedom of movement is not above everything else, but is an element of our community in the European Union alongside other elements, for example. workers' rights and the fact that we can have a welfare society in Denmark. It is being asked whether it is also something that the government is concerned with. Yes, it is, both on one side and on the other. That is why I would just like to thank you for bringing that part into the discussion. I think it is healthy and good that we have a regular discussion of it. Thank you for many wise words, I think, and also for differences that I think are fine to bring forward. I would like to finish by being quite clear and saying: yes, of course we are complying with the agreement we have with each other, but we will insist on listening to the people who are out there saying that they believe that it can be done better. It does, of course, mean that as a politician I will also practise and see if that is not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527113135	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527113139	Thank you to the Minister for the speech and for the debate. Now the Minister himself says in relation to the European Union that we need both to protect workers and to protect our welfare society. And part of the agreement is, in fact, that the government must be active in relation to the European Union in order to ensure that we can do this. I would therefore very much like to hear the Minister, on the one hand, what has actually been done to live up to that part of the agreement and, on the other hand, whether the Social Democratic Party could be involved in working to do things, for example. We have a principle of income in the same way as we have a principle of income for our old-age pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527113220	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527113221	Well, the rapporteur puts the finger exactly where it is central: this is one discussion out of many where, on the one hand, we are part of a European community with the enormous value it has and, on the other hand, we are trying to take care of the social model we have built up. It is for the government a very, very central discussion to take, both at home, but also at EU level, and I find that we have a Prime Minister who is not afraid of that debate and who is constantly taking it. It is not, of course, the same as succeeding in being right, nor is it the same as being against the European Union. I am not going to be against the European Union; I believe that it is a huge value for us to be part of that community, but it is not the same as that it is not at the same time a political battleground, because it is. And there's a lot to this free movement that over the years, for example. has been allowed to stand above having to live up to the pay and working conditions of the host country, which has been tipped off and where it is a socialist struggle to get it back, and that also applies to having a framework where we can have a welfare model such as the one we have within the framework of the European Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527113331	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527113332	That wasn't the most clear answer I've ever had. I think I asked quite clearly what the Minister has done in terms of complying with the sentence of the agreement, which is about actively working in the European Union to change the rules. And then I asked whether the Social Democratic Party would help to ensure that we had a principle of income in the Su sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527113356	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527113357	Well, we would very much like to discuss what it is within the framework of this discussion that is sensible to do, but I also think it is important, before we just say yes or no to things, to clarify what the consequences are for the people we have in Denmark. I am proud of our su system; I think it makes a huge difference in relation to all children having access to education in this country, regardless of what their parents bring out of luggage and purse, and I think it is an essential element to have with when we discuss this. That is why we were also opposed, for example, to giving su alone to Danish citizens. For it affects very, very many people who feel like Danish, are born and raised in Denmark, but who are not Danish citizens. That is why I think that there is a constant need for both for and against when we discuss this, but we would like to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527113446	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527113448	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister, although I do not think I have really received an answer to what the question was actually about. Just for the record, I can read out what the question is really about: Will the Minister tell us what the government will do to meet the commitments in the 2013 Su-conciliation on the fixed ceiling on expenditure for migrant workers? I have not heard a single bid from the Minister about what the Minister will actually do to live up to the agreement we jointly reached in 2013.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527113529	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527113530	I think I've given that. I think, in fact, that in my opening speech I made it quite clear that we are, of course, going to live up to this agreement, but that we are also following the figures in a straight line from my predecessors closely and continuously considering what can be done. There are two discussions in this. What I find the questioner asking now is whether there is a need to build something on top of the ceiling that we have now, but a great deal today has been about whether something else can be done instead of that ceiling. I think these are two different discussions. They are both relevant, but in relation to whether there is a need to build something on top of the ceiling that has already been introduced, I would just like to say in all silence that I think we owe it to our educational institutions to see the effect of what we have introduced before we come and put new things upstairs, especially when it is now reported from the real world, that what has been introduced, in some places, works rather clumsy and stupid.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527113630	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527113631	Now I'm getting all confused. The SF's rapporteur makes a proposal for adoption also on behalf of the government. It says that the defence initiatives that the Minister is now saying are going to be removed are going to be seen. What is the purpose of having to wait for the effects of some defence initiatives that will be removed? Can the Minister explain that to me?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527113659	I can easily explain that these are two different discussions. That's exactly what I said. The question of whether something can be replaced by what we have already introduced is a discussion which we started already in the paper of understanding. I think it is a healthy discussion, especially when we hear from out there, that it does not work optimally for many of our educational institutions. At the same time, however, I and the government are also obliged to follow the figures as part of the conciliation process, and if they increase substantially and exceed significantly, we must follow whether or not protective initiatives have been put in place to match it. And there I find it interesting to see when the effect of what my predecessor introduced in 2019 will come. We have not seen it yet, and I think we should wait until we put very large additional things on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527113750	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. Moreover, no one has asked to speak, after all, someone who wishes to speak, namely Mrs Ulla Tørnæs from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527113809	For the sake of order, I would just like to thank you very much for the debate to Parliament's parties. I started with the motivation for the debate here to emphasise that I would have preferred to have been the debate in addition, because for me it is about the lack of response from the Minister on how the government will live up to the su agreement that we reached back in 2013. Now we have been discussing for almost two hours, and for my part, at least, I have not received an answer as to how the government intends to comply with the 2013 agreement. Fortunately, however, we have received a guarantee from the Minister for the Interior and now I am quoting from memory that the government is I think that is good. So far, so good. But I still have the merit of understanding the point of abolishing something that we are awaiting the effect of. It's not in my head at all. I have not been given the opportunity to look at it in writing, but I heard the SF's rapporteur stress in the motion for a resolution that there is a desire to abolish the limitation of English-language education without having any alternative whatsoever, but at the same time the Minister has just stressed with me that the effects of what is intended to be abolished will be seen. The confusion is at least as far as I am concerned total. For the sake of order, I must point out that when the Minister now comes up with the hokuspocus solution, we are certainly prepared to look at it on the Left side. We have introduced defence initiatives under the agreement we have concluded with the parties of the Folketing in order to comply with the agreement we had reached. This was the best we could find, and now, after two hours of debate, it has not been possible, despite the fact that I have called for it, to get any indication of what would then replace the defence initiatives introduced by the previous government. But if it should happen, or if it happens, that the Minister will bring it, then of course we are prepared to discuss it on the Left side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527114100	You're welcome. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? There isn't. That concludes the negotiations. As I said, the vote on the proposals for adoption will not take place until Thursday 28 May 2020. There is no more to be done under this item and we will postpone the sitting until 8 a.m. 1 p.m., where there is Question Time with the Ministers. That is why we shall resume the sitting at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527130025	I should like to inform you that there has been a questioner, Peter Skaarup (DF), on question No. 1 (S 1217) to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527130045	Question No 1, by Mr McMahon One is for the Minister of Finance by Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527130057	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527130058	Thank you, President. What is the Minister's view that France and Germany will make a recovery fund of 500 billion? In the wake of the corona crisis, can the Danish Government guarantee that Denmark will not be liable for the loan to finance the fund?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527130117	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527130119	Thank you. The Franco-German initiative is in a number of areas with Danish wishes, while in other areas it differs from our wishes. We are, for example. agree with the need for us to focus aid on those who are most affected, that these are temporary and quite exceptional measures, and that we need to negotiate on the full bill together when we need to agree on the MFF. The Franco-German initiative also contains sensible ideas that we should be better prepared for a possible new health crisis at European level, and that is also in line with the proposal of the Prime Minister. It is positive that in France and Germany the Danish wish is shared that the recovery plan should contribute to the green and digital transition. Conversely, it is no secret that Denmark, Sweden, Austria and the Netherlands are not in favour of joint debt formation with transfers between countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527130218	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527130219	But what does that mean, Minister of Finance? That's what we need to know. Does this mean that the government is ready to veto? For now we've seen this dance about the hot porridge, through which I don't know how long the government has marked itself and taken pictures with the leaders of the other three countries, etc. It's really, really nice, but what does that mean? We need a clear guarantee that Danish taxpayers will not throw money into another aid package for southern Europe. I can also read in the German media that the European Commission will fund it by creating a new corporate tax. In other words, the European Union must not just live on contributions directly from the Member States, which, after all, we can debate and forward here from the Folketing, but we will have the opportunity to levy taxes directly. I just have the expectation, Minister of Finance, that the government will deliver more than words and that action will also be taken, namely by saying 'no'. I remember that at an earlier stage, when there was a less ambitious proposal than what we have before us today, the Prime Minister called it crazy. The least one could expect was then that today we had heard a prime minister call it gakgak, because it has only got worse. It does not go in the direction that the government wants. That is why we need a clear answer: are we willing and have the courage to use the right of veto to put an end to this crazy fantasy project which the European Commission has now put into the sea, following the inspiration of Merkel in Germany and Macron in France? Or is it going to end up in some muddy compromise where you come home with your tie hanging halfway around your chest and saying, "Yes, we fought for it, but..."? We need a clear answer, especially today, after the Commission has come up with an even wilder proposal. Now it's not in the goose's eyes... just 500 billion. euro, as proposed by France and Germany. So now it's 750 billion. euro, i.e. 5,600 billion. kr. that you want to send south again. Therefore, I just have to say that it is now really the eleventh hour that the government is saying the magic words, if you are willing to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527130418	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527130418-2	Well the government has been very clear: we stand together with Sweden, Austria and the Netherlands as the budget-restrictive. It should of course be borne in mind that the money we spend in the EU budget must be used sensibly, among other things. For green conversion and there is certainly room for improvement when you look at how some things are going on in the EU. If you need more money in the budget, it's money we can't spend at home. That is also why we, together with the President, thank the Minister for Finance! ) Well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527130454	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527130455	After all, this is not the first time we have tried a package of aid to southern Europe. After all, it has become such an established habit within the euro that the northern European countries and Germany have also, through the EU budget, sometimes made it necessary to send money southwards. But when it is always necessary, there is something that suggests that it is not the right cure. So how can the Minister of Finance even be sure that it will help this time just because there are more zeros on the check? In other words, the problem is basically that the countries of southern Europe are trapped in a euro construction where they do not fit in. And that is why one has to either make a short process or say to the Danish taxpayers: should we pay, or should we not pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527130532	Thank you. Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527130534	I think it has to be said in all silence that the Corona virus has also hit Europe and that some countries have been particularly hard hit. This applies, for example, to Italy and Spain. We in Denmark are certainly prepared to help countries that have the greatest difficulty in this situation in a spirit of solidarity. But we think it should be done in a sensible way. And that is also why, together with Sweden, Austria and the Netherlands, we have presented our proposals on how this can be done, where, on the one hand, we help those countries that have the greatest need, but, on the other hand, we also say that if you start up debt, it is a very good starting point that you pay it back yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527130612	Thank you. Then we need to get the co-questioner in. Here you go, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527130618	Well, it's very interesting to follow not least Merkel's act here. She has been in doubt and has now found out that money needs to be given, and she gets Macron on the wagon. And when the Minister of Finance says that Denmark is among the restrictive countries in relation to distributing Danish tax dollars to southern Europe, you can understand that, and we in Denmark can be glad that this is how we are interested in it, both Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti and myself, to find out what the result will be. So the good question is: what is the result? What does the government want to do with the result? Because is the result that Denmark agrees that it is not just loans, but that it is gifts to southern Europe that will be given? Or is the result that it is only loans? We do not yet know that, but we can at least ask the government: will the government veto the fact that it will be gifts to southern Europe, on behalf of the Danish taxpayers? I think there are a lot of people who would like a guarantee that the government will veto it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527130718	Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527130719	What the government is going to do, and what we have done together with Austria, Sweden and the Netherlands, is to make our bid for a recovery fund. We are calling for the Recovery Fund to grant loans on favourable conditions to the countries most affected, but not to direct aid. We will work to ensure that the proposal is drawn as much as possible towards what we are proposing, and that is what we will go to the negotiations with the other EU countries on. I do not think that the starting point should be for countries to veto. The starting point must be to try to reach agreement, and we in Denmark, together with other countries, have made our bid for it, and we will of course do everything we can to draw things in the right direction from the point of view of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527130804	Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527130805	However, excuse me: I think we have heard this once before, that is to say what has been said here during Question Time about what the government wants to do. What we are then asking from the Danish People's Party is: will we see a government that nevertheless falls to the titty, as has been done in the past, with mild gifts to southern Europe on behalf of the Danish taxpayers? Do we want to see it? Will the government veto it? Sir. Morten Messerschmidt asked me that earlier. I would like to ask again: will the government here veto mild gifts to southern Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527130837	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527130838	I think I have said very clearly what the government is going to work for. And that is a solution in which we show solidarity with the countries most affected, but where we are also very careful about the money. At the same time, we say that the starting point must be that if we can help those countries to borrow them on more favourable terms than they could themselves, then it is also a good starting point for the country concerned to repay the debt itself. We are some countries that are fighting hard for this, and I hope that the Danish People's Party will support that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527130914	Thank you. It's the main questioner again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527130917	Yeah, it's clear what the government wants. But it is not so clear what the government will do, since things are just going in the diametrically opposite direction. We have had an initiative today from the Commission, which is considerably worse than what we had in the past, where more money will be spent, where you want liability, where you now want to collect taxes, etc., that is, more Europe. It is, I think, exactly the opposite that the Danes want. It is at least the opposite that we in the Danish People's Party want. That is the opposite of what the government says, but the government is just not willing to say the magic word that can ensure it, namely that Denmark says: veto. Why can't we get a clear answer to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527130953	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527130953-2	I have given a very clear answer to what Denmark is fighting for. And I can reassure you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt says that this is a fight that we really take seriously, and fortunately we do so together with other countries. It is not the case that Denmark is standing here alone. Sweden, the Netherlands and Austria are also involved, and we will of course use all our efforts to move the European Union in the direction that we think is sensible, where, on the one hand, we show solidarity with those countries that are hardest off, but also take good care of the money in relation to the EU budget and have a healthy principle that those who borrow money even if we can help them to pay them back on more favourable terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527131033	Thank you for that. Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt and to Mr. Peter Skaarup. Question No 1, by Mr McMahon 2 is for the Minister of Finance by Mr. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527131041	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527131043	Thank you, President. Is it the Minister's intention to reopen the trialogue negotiations so that companies can expect greater flexibility from the use of their employees in parallel with the gradual re-opening of Denmark, or does the Minister wish to keep companies bound by the 30% dismissal and repatriation rule of at least 50 people before any compensation can be obtained?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527131111	Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527131112	On the basis of the report which has come from three leading economists today, I expect to meet the social partners on the wage compensation scheme agreed jointly and, of course, look at how to phase out in the most sensible way. And if there is a desire on the part of some of the parties to change, then we must discuss them there. However, it should be borne in mind that this will require agreement, not only between two of the parties, but between all three parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527131150	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527131152	Thank you. In this respect, we have been somewhat overtaken by reality, for the Minister is now proposing a real renegotiation. But it was a few weeks ago, about two weeks ago, that negotiations were held on the overall reopening of Denmark, so why did not the trialogue negotiations then take place? Now we could hear the minister at yesterday's press conference telling us how much these aid packages cost the Danish community • I think it is 20 billion. kr. a month. Well, it's a lot of money every day. So why not convene the negotiations two weeks ago and thus create greater flexibility for companies? Because the package is very much a decommissioning package, so if you could have called in two weeks ago and given the companies more flexibility, I think you could have saved a great deal in the last two weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527131238	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527131240	Well, we originally made the wage compensation scheme with the social partners. It has later been revised and made more attractive, also with employers' eyes. We have also been constantly looking at how to make it flexible. In other words, there is no one else who wants this to be of benefit to both employers and employees. So I do not recognize the image that we have done nothing to make this an effective arrangement. And you just have to remember that there are more than 200,000 Danish employees who have benefited from this scheme and very, very many companies. Now we have come to the point where we are starting to open up Danish society again, and that is why we must also look at what tools we need to use forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527131325	Thank you. Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527131327	Thank you. If we try to look at it in the future, the economists recommend phasing out the aid packages per year. 8 July, but that has not been decided yet, so if we extend the pay compensation package to some extent, the government will then work for greater flexibility for the companies that use it, so for example. Some of the sent employees are not just sitting at home doing nothing, but can take further training or help with maintenance or something to maximize the tax dollars we spend on pay compensation after all?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527131400	Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527131402	It is important for the government in the context of the wage compensation scheme that all three parties contribute. We pay from the state, from the Community side, to these salaries, the employees themselves pay with holidays, and the companies also pay their share. And then you have made it flexible on many leads and edges, which you have also signed for from the employer side. If there are wishes in relation to the discussions we may have on which agreement can be reached between the parties, then of course we are always open to discussing them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527131439	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527131440	Well, we have some clear wishes, and we have expressed them all the way through. I hope that the Minister will join us now that new negotiations will then be launched and that is more flexibility. To cut it all the way to the bone, there are some companies that will probably not open after 8 July: nightclubs, gyms, indoor swimming pools and playgrounds etc. And there we would very much like to suggest that the Minister envisages flexibility so that the employees who sit at home over the summer can do something, for example. maintenance, painting a wall, making new equipment in the company • something. Will the Minister work for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527131519	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527131520	I think it is important to remember just what we have got into this arrangement. In other words, what we call the repatriation requirement, which is being asked, applies, for example. only at the time of application. This means that companies can re-call employees if an unforeseen need arises as a result of new orders. It is also possible to return only partially, for example. Two days a week. This built-in flexibility in the wage compensation scheme means that companies have a wide opportunity to set their employees in motion, and I think that is sensible, because flexibility is needed. Now I and other ministers will meet with the social partners again, and then we will hear what is of views. And I would like to acknowledge that the Conservative People's Party has also signed up with its ideas.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527131604	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. There are no more questions for the Minister of Finance, so thank him as well. The next item is Question Time (Doc. 3 to the Minister for Foreign Affairs by Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527131619	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527131620	Thank you very much, President. What is the Minister's view that the US Government is preparing a substantial package of financial support for Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527131631	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527131634	Thank you. And thank you to the questioner. I do not think anyone in the Folketing can be in doubt about my position on the US package of just over 83 million. kr. for projects in Greenland. Last week we had thorough discussions in Foreign Policy Names, in the Greenland Committee and in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, precisely on the package and the wider context in which it is part of. There should therefore be no doubt as to what I and the government think about this matter. We very much welcome the fact that the United States has chosen to increase its civil commitment to Greenland, and along with my Greenlandic colleague, Ane Lone Bagger, I have long been working to ensure that the United States' interest in Greenland benefits the Greenlandic community as much as possible. I have done so on the basis of a broad consensus in the Folketing, as it among other things. is reflected in the proposal for adoption V 38 from December last year. Frankly, I have been somewhat surprised by several of the very sharp reactions that fell on top of the American announcement. Some paint a scare picture by claiming that the United States is pushing in and beating cracks in the kingdom community. I don't recognize that picture. Denmark and Greenland have been working for a long time to secure something that is economically beneficial for Greenland, and we have together had close contact with the United States about the package, and the package supports projects in sectors that Greenland wants to develop as part of the process of diversifying the country's economy, and we naturally support this in the government. I am fully aware of the larger picture and of the connection with the Great Power Rival in the Arctic. The civil commitment of the United States does not take place in a vacuum. To believe otherwise would be naive, and we certainly are not, either in Nuuk or in Copenhagen. At the same time, I am surprised that some people think that American interest is a bad thing. The United States is our closest ally and has been a central partner in the Arctic and the North Atlantic for more than half a century. When Russia expands its bases along the northeast flank, or China shows interest in the region, it is only natural that we in the kingdom should deal with it together with the United States. In other words, we have common interests in a region characterised by low tension and constructive cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527131845	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527131845-2	Thank you very much for that answer. After all, the question has been postponed for some time now, which is why we have moved on a little bit. However, although it is now more than 10 years since the A5 States committed themselves to the Ilulissat Declaration, it has, of course, played a major role in maintaining stability in the region, which has been its first priority up to now and has always been its objective. What does the Minister think of the United States now trying to go this new way instead of defending its interests in the area within the framework of the Ilulissat Declaration?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527131919	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527131921	Thank you to the questioner. The Ilulissat Declaration remains relevant and applicable, and it is still the case that all Arctic States participate in the practical, day-to-day cooperation, inter alia. search, rescue, environmental protection and navigation safety. At the same time, we see a more dynamic security policy situation in the Arctic and an increased competition for power, and it can be said that American rhetoric must be seen in that light. This does not make the Ilulissat Declaration any less relevant, and I welcome the fact that all the Arctic coastal states continue to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527131956	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527131957	Thank you for the final answer. The last question I would like to put to you because the Minister has actually replied to my next question is how the Minister will react in the future if, let us say, China, for example. made a contribution to Greenland in relation to e.g. malignant influence and blackmail.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527132014	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527132014-2	We are concerned about this in the government together with the Greenland Government. Greenland wants to diversify their economy and wants trade and international partners. And that is why I am glad that it is the United States that, with this package, is showing a huge benefit to Greenlandic society. In addition to safety work, there is also cooperation in tourism, raw materials development and other things. And that is something we also appreciate from the government. So we support Greenland in their desire for larger international contact points.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527132049	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527132053	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527132058	Thank you, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen. No one else will be able to speak this time. The next question, spm. No. S 1214, is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs by Mr. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527132104	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527132106	Thank you, President. What is the Foreign Minister's view that the German Constitutional Court has condemned the ECB's procurement programmes and set aside the European Court of Justice as supreme authority?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527132120	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527132121	Thank you to the questioner for that question. My view is that it is a health check that courts in Member States, including the European Court of Justice, are looking at the people in power. The division of power with strong courts is the foundation of our democracy, and I know the questioner agrees with that. This is something that is very close to my heart and something that we will be able to discuss tomorrow in a different context in this Chamber when we discuss the principles of the rule of law. That is my overall position, and the impact on the European Central Bank's buy-back programmes and the European Court of Justice as the supreme authority is so specifically asked. In relation to the first part of the question, about the buying-in programmes, I would urge you to put cold water in your blood. The judgment obliges the German Government to ensure that within three months the ECB prepares a justification for the need for the buy-in programme. We can, of course, come back to the question when the work is done. In relation to the second part of the question, whether the relationship between the European Court of Justice and the German Federal Constitutional Court is my starting point, it is good that we have them both. It is good that we have an EU Court of Justice that can authoritatively interpret EU law, but it is also good that we have supreme courts in the Member States that can interpret national constitutions. Is it that smooth? No, certainly not, and there is nothing new about that. I therefore do not see the judgment as an indication that the German courts are no longer required to follow the case law of the European Court of Justice, nor that the Federal Constitutional Court has generally set aside the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527132303	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527132306	When I ask in the way I do here, it is because I am quite sure that in Karlsruhe it is the view that you have the authority to set aside the European Court of Justice. And at least the first part of the second answer given by the Foreign Minister was positive in the sense that the Danish Government is in favour of courts being able to control the EU system too, and that is good. But this must of course be seen as part of the whole history of the euro, with buy-in programmes and stimuli packages, and now a huge boost of 5 600 billion. kr. as proposed by the Commission. But now that the German authorities, in particular the German Constitutional Court, are beginning to say something about it, and this is not really the first time; I remember that there have been several such cases, perhaps the Foreign Minister is beginning to shake his hand a little over the very, very euroloyal policy which the Danish Government is pursuing. So it is very difficult to see in the practical reality that Denmark is not a euro country in purely political terms. One thing is that we have good Danish crowns in our pockets, but every time the ECB does something or the Commission makes proposals, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. That is why I just want to hear what the Foreign Minister's broader perspective on the euro zone is now, among other things. the German Constitutional Court is beginning to strike down. Could it be imagined that the Danish Government also began to turn down and also began to distance itself a little to the loser project, may I say as I think the euro will be in the long run in history?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527132459	Minister of Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527132459-2	Thank you. So that we are economically, commercially and politically bound together in Europe, and also geographically for that matter, is not a secret, and I think Mr. Morten Messerschmidt knows. That is why developments in our neighbouring countries are just as crucial for our own development as they are at home. After all, one of the things that is needed to get us out of the crisis is to stimulate our economies so that we get trade going again, to create the jobs that have been lost during the crisis. In this respect, we must work closely together in Europe. I hope so too, sir. Morten Messerschmidt backs around. But let me start with...
ParlaMint-DK_20200527132533	Thank you. I'm afraid there's no more time. Here you go, sir. Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527132534	So, I do not think there is any greater solidarity than saying to the southern European countries, which unfortunately have been persuaded by some nonsense and have joined a monetary union with Germany, that we must now help you to get out again. So instead of continuing to send one headless aid package away after another. Now we see how even more zeroes have been added to the aid packages, which, in the last 20 years, have not helped lift these countries out of the debt trap they are in, neither Italy nor Greece. So I would just like to ask: is the Minister optimistically positive or sceptically negative about the Karlsruhe ruling?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527132610	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527132611	In other words, what the judgment is all about is that it only criticises the lack of proportionality assessment prior to the decision to set up the programme on 4 March 2015. This means that the ECB does not sufficiently justify the need for the buy-in programme. We shall see if the ECB does so now. Moreover, it is also important to emphasise that the decision of the German Constitutional Court is only legally binding on the German authorities, so I think we can come back when there are more assessments in this case. In other words, we are bound together and national constitutional courts and the European Court of Justice have their roles, I think we agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527132651	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527132651-2	I am glad that the Minister says so, because that is not a completely uncontroversial view in Brussels and the surrounding area. I assume that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is also aware of the times when the Danish Supreme Court has rejected it, for example. Ajosdom a few years back. It really is something that gives wrinkled brows among the fastings in the faith down in Brussels and the surroundings. That is why I am delighted if we have a government which, for once, is on the side of the national authorities, including when it comes to the choice between the EU system and the Danish one.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527132725	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527132727	In other words, first of all, it is important that we have an EU Court of Justice that can help to interpret EU law so that it applies in a similar way throughout Europe, otherwise we would not have an internal market that worked effectively. Having said that, the government is conducting ongoing dialogue with the European Court of Justice by making both written and oral submissions, and in those cases where relevant, the government is arguing for a less far-reaching interpretation of EU law, and the government will continue to do so. The government will also work to ensure that the minority of judges of the European Court of Justice, who may disagree with the majority decision, have the opportunity to make their views known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527132803	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There are no more questions for him. The next question is Question 5, and it is to the Minister for Justice of Mr. Peter Skaarup. There's a co-questioner, too, and that's Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527132819	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527132820	Thank you, and I read out: what is the Minister's position on, and how will the Minister deal with, gang members who, in this coronatid, run over the Danish-Swedish border on a large scale without having a so-called recognition-worthy purpose?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527132836	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527132837	Thank you for the question. After all, it is shameful that some gang members seem to care about all the ordinary Danes who have had to accept significant interference in their daily lives in order to stem the spread of infection. The recommendations of the authorities are clear, but I would also like to say at the same time that it may not come as a surprise that the gang members do not follow the same moral compass as the rest of us. We have seen this in all sorts of other situations. Of course, we cannot decide who, under Swedish rules, is entitled to enter Sweden. That, of course, is something that the Swedes must decide. Nor can we prevent a Danish citizen who has left from returning to Denmark. Having said that, I naturally expect the police to pay the necessary attention to the criminality of those involved in border controls. It is good that the police are watching the border crossings so that such information can contribute to the police's work in eliminating organised cross-border crime. This is something on which the government has a great deal of focus, and that is also why we have set up the new Border Centre Øresund for police cooperation and the fight against crime in the Øresund region. The border centre must precisely strengthen cooperation with the Swedish police on the criminals who cross back and forth between our countries. It is the police's expectation that the work on monitoring and analysing the crime picture in the Øresund region will be significantly strengthened with the new border centre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527133015	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527133016	Thank you for your answer. After all, this is a matter that I was very upset about when I first heard that gang members here during the corona crisis have been completely indifferent to the rules that we have introduced to secure against coronasmite, especially our elderly and our chronically ill in Denmark. It goes without saying that if you care as much as the gang members seem to be here and go on a gym or café visit, or whatever you do, on the other side of the Sound, you don't care about anything else. For this reason, we have asked the government to tighten up the fact that the police officers until a certain point in time should at least make sure that these gang members run over. I'd like to hear how the Minister of Justice feels about getting these things tightened up. After all, we have been told that 53 gang cars have been over and have been particularly registered in connection with the scanning equipment available. I think it is 53 too much, because the risk is that you bring in infection from Sweden, where you have a completely different approach to the corona than we have had in Denmark, with far more deaths. So that's one question. The second question to which I would like to hear the reply from the Minister for Justice is this: in the context of the discussions now taking place with Sweden and the various countries on the reopening of borders, will this question be raised, in other words about gang members crossing across the Sound? For they regard the Øresund region as an area where they can just walk freely, and it is a great thing, if you are resident, to be on the other side of the Øresund. Finally, will the Minister of Justice ensure that it is really possible to enforce a purpose worthy of recognition? It is not a worthwhile purpose to go to Sweden for a fitness trip or a café visit on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527133218	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527133220	Thank you. First of all, what is the effort? If we just go back one year, there would be no border controls for Sweden. There is now. This government has established this, first in connection with bomb blasts etc., introduced in November 2019, and subsequently in connection with the corona closure. I still think that one of the keys in this context is this new border centre, which I believe and the police expect will be of considerable importance in order to combat cross-border crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527133255	Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527133257	Now I am not talking about the border controls that we in the Danish People's Party also believe we should have against Sweden, just as we do against Germany. I am talking about this corona crisis, where we have seen that gang members in a large number are moving to Sweden, while there is widespread infection on the other side. That is how we must see the death toll that they have on the Swedish side, as they are at the moment. There it is, then, I ask the Minister for Justice: can it really be right that gang members just a lot can drive to Sweden without the authorities doing anything? And can it be right that the government has not reached an agreement with Sweden to ensure that it is only by worthy of recognition that you can drive in?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527133338	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527133339	All we have to do is hold on to the order. Of course, Danish citizens do not have the right to enter Denmark with the recognitionable purposes for which they can enter Denmark. This means that even if we said that we were to regulate the worthy purposes of recognition, what we are doing here by 25 May at the latest, that is to say on Monday, we have extended it with new recognised purposes for people from the Nordic countries and Germany who can enter Denmark, it will not change the right of Danish citizens to return to Denmark if they have left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527133414	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Now we're gonna get the co-questioner on the field, and that's Mr. Kim. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527133418	Thank you. I would like to follow up on what my colleague, Mr. Peter Skaarup, asking. After all, it can be said that the National Police on the automatic license plate system, ANPG, which exists at the Øresund Bridge, announces that since 1 January there have been 60 vehicles listed as related to gang members who have passed. It is true, as the Minister says, that there may not be so many expectations that when you belong to that environment, you comply with health instructions when you generally do not comply with any instructions, laws, regulations and such things. But when you can specifically look at these scanners, that it's people who are related to the gang environment, couldn't the police and border controls be a little more effective at putting in and stopping these cars and stopping these crossings, both of course to limit the risk of infection here in the coronatide, but also in general to get them locked up when they don't comply with the rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527133522	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527133523	On the subject of how we can best get to the gang members: one thing is the effort that is going on on the border, on the line, and I also agree that one of the good means we have put into use is the automatic license plate recognition, which we have established in different places, so that we can make the registrations to which reference is made. But I think that some of what is going to be crucial in this situation is this border centre Øresund, which is not just on the border, but which is simply a new police unit that will be able to follow up, monitor and ensure that we become more effective in our fight against crime, not least against the gangs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527133607	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527133607-2	Hope is pious, and cooperation is good. But consistency is also quite good. It's as if many of these gang members have no respect whatsoever for either the police or the rules we adopt here in the Folketing. So it may also be necessary to focus more on moving out when you can see on the license plate scanners that these cars are driving over and having the vehicles seized and using all the other means you can use. So simply take the tool out of the toolbox.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527133645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527133646	Some of the things these license plate records are used for are, among other things. to keep track of the movements. They can therefore also be read into the investigation steps taken in a prosecution and in the general observation of the gang members not only when they cross the border, but also to get the picture of their movements that we need to get them. But I am just as outraged as the questioner and co-questioner that there seem to be gang members who, as I hear it on the rumor market, go to Sweden for example. to train in gyms and go home again and risk bringing infected chains back to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527133726	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup again, please, one simple question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527133731	Thank you. I think I hear the Minister for Justice say that it is limited what can actually be done about it. Okay, well, it's tempting to conclude, because I just miss hearing what's going on with this traffic. After all, there are some of these gang vehicles that over 30 times have been driven over this period that has been measured. It's not normal, but it's because some people don't give a shit about the rules we've set up in Denmark against the corona. They don't give a shit and still drive over there where there's a higher possibility of infection. So my offer to the Minister of Justice is just: please come up with something that solves this problem, instead of telling us all about the difficulties that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527133820	Thank you. Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527133821	But I actually don't think that's quite fair. A year ago, there was no border control. I mean, it's this government that has introduced border controls against Sweden. This year the expectation is that the protection of the border will cost 143 million. kr. Had the government previously supported by the Danish People's Party continued, it was not certain that so much as a single crown had been spent. Next year it will be 135 million. kr., and we've created a border center, and we're making border controls. If anyone cares about fighting cross-border crime, it's actually this government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527133855	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Peter Skaarup. There are no more questions from him. The next question is Question 6, and it is also to the Minister for Justice, this time by Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527133906	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527133907	Thank you. What is the Minister's position on placing the new Corona Board in Kolding, cf. that the mayor of Kolding Municipality has made a presentation here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527133916	Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527133918	I think that sounds like a good idea. Shouldn't we just agree on that, the two of us, and then get that case handled? No, thank you for the question. Experience with the handling of covid-19 in Denmark has shown that there is a need for consistent and cross-cutting coordination of the authorities' interventions. This is true, for example, when it comes to securing the supply of society's critical infrastructure. The new management board will be entrusted with the task of ensuring the supply and adequate stocks of protective equipment. In relation to the covid-19, the board also has the task of supporting the public testing strategy and the health authorities' detection of the disease, that is, what we are working so hard with at the moment. We are working on the fact that the board must be ready for August, and I am fully aware that the creation of a new board raises a number of issues of a different nature, for example. as it is in the question: Where should the board be? What are the interfaces with other authorities? Where should the board be located geographically and how should the employee composition be etc. etc.? Everyone knows that the balance between the parts of the country is a priority for the Social Democratic Government, and that is why we, together with others, are doing so. The author's party has agreed to write it as clearly in the understanding paper as we have done. However, I would ask the questioner's understanding that we are currently working on setting the right lines so that the board can become the necessary muscle to ensure consistent and cross-cutting coordination and operation in the context of crises such as the Corona crisis. That is why, unfortunately, I cannot now answer the question as specifically as I suggested at the beginning. There are many factors that need to be taken into account. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134105	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134105-2	Thank you for that answer. I am both the legal rapporteur, but in fact also the rural rapporteur, and that is why I think it is quite obvious that when we have to set up such a completely new administration, we remember that it can actually be placed elsewhere than in the capital. As the Minister rightly mentions, it is precisely in the understanding paper that we must counteract this centralisation, and now we actually have the first municipality to bid in, namely Kolding, and I also think that there will be more municipalities doing so. And it's actually kind of an ungrateful task to offer, because you don't know much about what kind of criteria should be emphasized when this board is to be placed. But some of what Kolding points out is that they are located in a centre of logistics: there is an enormous amount of transport, they have an international airport • because there must most likely also be an air bridge which has been there and they have a central location in the country up to three police circles. So does the Minister think that these are some of the criteria that could be emphasised when setting up a new administration?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134209	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134210	I think that both the mayor's request and also the questioner's sales speech for Kolding are right, and Kolding is a nice place. But I think it would be quite wrong of me to start moving down in how to decide the location of the new board.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134226	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134228	Well, I guess I can do something else then. After all, the Minister has said that the new administration will have to be ready in August, and in fact there is not much time for that, and it will be over a summer holiday, where the country is typically a little quieter. And perhaps I had thought that the Minister had gone a little further in his deliberations on location and crew. But does the Minister agree with me that it would make sense to look for a location outside the capital, so that we ensure that these state jobs are distributed throughout the country? And will the Minister take a meeting with Kolding Municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134306	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134307	It is absolutely true that the goal of having the board ready for August is very ambitious. Nevertheless, that is still the objective. If we can make it, I cannot say yet, but that is the ambition. What I'm delighted about is that the board isn't created out of nothing. At present, the functions to be taken over by the board are carried out in what is called the NOST, which ensures that there is supply capacity, etc. So it's work that's going on and that's going to slip into the new board.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134344	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134345	I think I may just miss a clear answer as to whether the Minister will then perhaps take a meeting with Kolding Municipality and hear the arguments of the municipality. It could also be other surrounding municipalities in relation to Billund Airport, which I know is a central part of the work done by the NOST.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134404	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134404-2	I'm not sure I'm doing it myself, but if there's a municipality coming in and saying they have something important to tell the Ministry of Justice, we're always listening to the municipalities. It can be said that Kolding has already secured a head start because the member who has been elected in the area has pointed out the possibility of location in Kolding.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134426	Thank you to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the SF. The next item is item 7, which is also addressed to the Minister for Justice by Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, and there is a questioner, and that is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134438	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134440	After all, I have a very simple question for the Minister of Justice, namely: Will German tourists be allowed to come to Denmark at Pentecosts this year?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134447	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134449	Thank you for the question, which I think the author also asked me in connection with another question in this Chamber last week, as I remember it (Eva Kjer Hansen It was about Christ's Ascension Day). And since then a great deal has happened because, as you know, the government and the parties of the Folketing have reached an agreement on further reopening in phase two. In addition, the government, which was also envisaged in the agreement, with effect from 25 May, i.e. on Monday, has made it possible for foreigners resident in the Nordic countries and Germany to enter if they have a summer house in Denmark in which they wish to stay. So to the extent that the German tourists referred to own a holiday home in Denmark, the answer is yes. The tourists can come to Denmark in the Pentecosts. I am, of course, pleased about that, because it is a result of the fact that we in Denmark are well aware of the situation, that we can also start opening our borders a little more. At the same time, however, we must always be aware that we are not going too far and that we are not going to end up in a situation where the infection comes out of control. That is why the opening up of our society also needs to be gradual, cautious and controlled. The Government will, as is also apparent from the agreement with the parties of the Danish Parliament, present, by Friday 29 May at the latest, a health-friendly plan on how a controlled and gradual reopening of summer tourism can take place. And that is the message that I can bring to the questioner today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134615	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134616	I am nevertheless surprised that the Minister chooses to give it such weight in his answer to the question that those who own holiday homes have now been allowed to stay in them if they come from Germany or the other Nordic countries. And it surprises me all the time that foreign people are not allowed to own a holiday home in Denmark. That is why the Minister knows very well that we are talking about a few. I will not ask the Minister today about the number, because I think the Minister has not brought it. But I will ask you about this in writing, because I think it is simply an insult to all those who are so dependent on German tourists that the Minister chooses such an approach to the response. Will the Minister of Government speak in favour of opening up for example? German tourists in general about getting access to Denmark in the Pentecosts, so that what comes on Friday is not just a plan, but that it is also an opening of the border?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134715	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134716	I do not want to anticipate the announcement on Friday and say what it will contain, as long as it comes on Friday. But what is being worked on is, of course, how we can ensure a gradual and cautious opening of our borders, so that we can ensure both tourism and the tourism economy, but also that the health benefits that we have achieved are not put at risk because we are too quick to move forward and introduce new chains of infection in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134748	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134749	You get the impression that things don't develop in the government at all. Because now we have asked, the Minister may claim, comparable questions many weeks in a row, but we are just getting the usual answer. And frankly, I thought there were discussions in the government so that it could be brought closer. What criteria must be met? Under what conditions will an opening be permitted? But it sounds to the Minister as if this development is not taking place in the government at all and there is no idea at all that this costs a turnover loss of 200 million every 24 hours. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134829	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134830	It is simply wrong, and the questioner knows it well, to say that it does not develop. Since last week alone, when we met, there have been new worthy purposes for which it is possible to see that there are others other than them when we were here last week who can now enter the country, just as it has been decided that a plan for the future will be presented on Friday.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134857	Here you go, co-questioner Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134858	Thank you very much. Yeah, we're here again, as I said. I would like to ask you about the plan that will then come on Friday. Will the Minister work to make it possible for German tourists to come to Denmark and take their planned holidays? If not, I should just point out to the Minister that Denmark will lose about 1.7 million overnight stays in Danish holiday houses.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134934	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527134936	After all, no one has an ambition to keep the borders closed longer than is necessary, and everyone is quite embarrassing to know how important it is that we get tourists back to Denmark. Of course, what it needs to be weighed up against is the risk that we will introduce new chains of infection to Denmark, or that we will create a population that is so dense that the infection will spread too easily. So that is the opposite consideration. And these are the balances that need to be weighed off when we have to decide how and when to take the next steps in the process which, in the view of the government, must be organised so that we do not jeopardise the gains we have received. That is why we need to come forward cautiously.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135021	The enquirer, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135022	We fully agree that this should be done in terms of health, but we have not succeeded in getting any health reasons at all to maintain the closure of, for example, a number of experiments. the Danish-German border and why, as we address the next question, it is not possible to consider having a lease as a worthy purpose. The Minister and the government owe this to not only the Danish Parliament, but also the Danish public. What is the health justification for maintaining the closure of the border?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135104	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135105	Now I was just looking at the question put by the questioner, following the report of 20 May, which is, of course, the one which describes the possibilities of opening up further, and which also addresses the border issue, and in which it is said that if we open the borders too quickly, we risk introducing new chains of infection. So we risk getting more people infected if we open up a very large number and do it in the wrong way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135136	Thank you. It's Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135139	It is quite strange that that report in the past did not contain anything at all about the opening of borders. And then, very conveniently for the government, there are a few phrases that may be associated with risk, so some completely nonsensical sentences in the report, so you can refer to it instead of answering the questions that are being asked. I'm just gonna make a final attempt in this round: on Friday, you get a reply from the government to what date German tourists are allowed to come to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135211	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135212	I do not like the wording, that is, that it is almost presented as if it were something the government has done in relation to this report, so that it can be said that you can just see how dangerous it is and which should then be supported by such a conspiracy theory that we are not really going to open the borders. We will be fully aware of what this means for the Danish economy too, not least in some of the areas which may not otherwise be too easy. But at the same time, of course, we have to weigh it up against what kind of risks we are running.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135255	Thank you, Minister. That was the end of item 7 on the agenda. Paragraph 8 is also addressed to the Minister of Justice. It's exactly the same team, but now the main questioner is Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135305	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135306	What did the Minister mean when he replied to Question No 1? S 1143 in the Danish Parliamentary Question Time on 13 May 2020 said the following to the question of making a rent certificate for a holiday home or a campsite for a worthwhile purpose: "I think that is actually a sensible approach, instead of saying that either everything should be open or everything should be closed, I think it is in saying that we must assess what the worthy purposes are, is reasonable.'
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135343	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135343-2	Thank you for the question. As I have said before, I believe that large parts of the Folketing agree that we should not just open up completely to entry into Denmark with one. This must, of course, be done, as the honourable Member has also said in a different context, in a health-friendly way, in a controlled way, so that we can keep an eye on how the infection develops and ensure that we do not compromise the good results that we have achieved. In this respect, I certainly think it is sensible to look at an approach in which the list of recognised purposes for entry can be extended. That is also the approach that has been followed. It is clear from the agreement with the parties of the Folketing on a further reopening in phase two, which was concluded on Wednesday, that we have decided to extend the list of recognised purposes with effect from Monday, that is to say from 25 May. This means, for example, that foreigners resident in the Nordic countries or Germany can enter Denmark if they own a summer house. As is also apparent from the same agreement, the Government will present, by Friday 29 May at the latest, a health-friendly plan for a controlled and gradual reopening of summer tourism.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135500	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135501	In fact, I was really, really happy on 13 May when the Minister stood here and said that it was an opportunity to consider a lease for a Danish holiday home or a campsite as a worthwhile purpose. I think that with me there were a great many people in the whole tourist industry who thought: Yes, the government is finally opening up to welcome the thousands of German tourists who have ordered a Danish holiday home and who are only waiting for the Danish government to take action so that they can have the opportunity to cross the border. I must confess that I was therefore disappointed when the agreement between the parties of the Folketing was published the other day and it came out, as the Minister mentions, that it is only for foreign citizens who have been allowed to buy a Danish holiday home that it can now be regarded as a worthwhile purpose to visit. Does the Minister share that disappointment with me?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135617	Here you go, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135619	Ah, there came a number of new recognizable purposes for: spouses, regular cohabitants, fiancées, girlfriends, parents and grandparents, children and grandchildren to a Dane who is resident or staying in Denmark, for example, entry for stays in his own cottage • what we have been over before taking part in job interviews and so, what I think we can all enjoy, transit through Denmark for holidays outside Denmark. For example: that a person resident in Germany can travel through Denmark to take a holiday in Sweden or elsewhere in Germany, e.g. On Sylt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135659	Thank you. Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135700	Well, it's good to enjoy what we've got. But that is not what we were talking about on 13 May. There it was a rental certificate for a Danish holiday home or a campsite. There I heard the Minister open up that this could be a worthy purpose of recognition. Does the Minister still believe that it may be possible to regard a lease as a worthy purpose?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135730	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135731	What I said, and what the questioner has also quoted quite rightly in the question today, is that I actually think it is a sensible approach. So, instead of saying that everything must either be open or everything must be closed, I think it is sensible to say that we must assess what is worthy of recognition. And, of course, in the work that the government is doing now, it is also, if we can make such a gradual, cautious opening for example. tourists again, relevant to look at what kind of accommodation they have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135805	Thank you. Then it's the co-questioner, Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135808	It must be a lack of understanding and knowledge of life in the border country that one can highlight it as some great victories that one has now opened up that grandchildren must visit their grandparents, even if they live on opposite sides of the border, or that boyfriends who live on opposite sides of the border must now visit each other. It should never have been closed down if we had shown respect for life in the border region. But my question to the Minister is whether the government will announce a date on Friday next to when German tourists may come to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135840	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135841	No, I do not agree with the questioner that it is disrespectful that when we made the decision to close Denmark, we made a fairly robust closure. In fact, I think that this is the appropriate way to do it also for those who live in the border area with a view to protecting Denmark. Moreover, the Germans did the same in order to protect the Germans, just as the Germans, as I am informed, still have a travel recommendation not to go to Denmark. So, a non-necessary journey will be a tourist stay in Denmark, so if you are a German, you should preferably stay at home. As far as I know, this is still the German recommendation in relation to travelling to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135921	The enquirer, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135923	I know that this is an unpleasant question, and I shall now confine myself to asking just one question so that the Minister can stop talking about it. Will the government on Friday report a date next to when German tourists are allowed to come to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135935	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135937	The answer to that question will be stated in the government's announcement on Friday.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135943	Then we'll have the main questioner on the field. Here you go, Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527135949	Are I to understand the Minister's answer to me in that the Minister has changed his position in relation to what was the answer to a question put by me on 13 May on the possibility of considering a lease as a worthy purpose? And will this be part of the plan that the Minister has mentioned here will be presented on Friday?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140019	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140021	No, there's no change compared to what I said last time. I still believe that the right way to operate is worthy of recognition. It is also my view that, to the extent that we are able to properly open up tourism from, among other things, tourism. Germany, you have to do it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140044	Thank you very much. That was the end of item 8 on the agenda and thanks to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs and Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen. The next item is Question 9, which is also addressed to the Minister for Justice, this time by Mr Seligman. Bertel Haarder from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140059	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140117	Why does the Minister not follow up on the laudable opening he gave during Question Time, when he opened that a summer rental contract could be a worthy purpose for tourists' entry, especially when it is so crucial that the tenants are informed quickly and when there is even a majority for it in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140119	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140124	Thank you for the question. I understand, of course, that there is a great deal of demand both for the questioner and, in particular, for the tourist industry, after some clear dates, and I have a great understanding of the challenges posed by border controls and restrictions on entry to the Danish tourist industry and the many holidaymakers who have rented their holiday homes to foreign guests. Having said that, I do not think that there should be a complete opening up of borders from one day to the next, but this must of course be done in a wise and controlled way so that we do not jeopardise the good results we have achieved. That is why I also think that looking at expanding with recognitionable purposes is a sensible approach. That is also why the government has decided, with effect from Monday, 25 May, to extend the list of worthy purposes, such as: foreigners resident in the Nordic countries or Germany can enter if they own a holiday home in Denmark in which they wish to stay. As is also apparent from the Government's agreement with the parties of the Folketing, the Government will present, by Friday 29 May at the latest, a health-friendly plan for the further controlled and gradual opening of summer tourism. This remains the timetable on which the government is working.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140235	Sir. Bertel Haarder.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140236	Don't make the impression that there is a majority in the Folketing to open up, among other things. For cottage owners? Does it not make the impression that at no time has there been health evidence for the closure and that Germany is ready to open and that Sweden has always opened? Why can we not at least open up to the southern Swedes, i.e. those from Scania, Halland and Blekinge, the old Danish provinces, where there is lower infection than there is in Copenhagen and on Zealand? Why can we not at least open up to them when we have now begun to distinguish between East Danes and West Danes? Why, then, can we not distinguish between Norwegians and South Swedes?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140324	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140325	Should I understand that it is the position of the Left Party that we should open free border entry from Sweden?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140337	Sir. Bertel Haarder.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140338	As is clear from a number of questions that have been asked, we would like to have an opening for holiday home owners, and so they live in Germany, Sweden and also in Norway. That is what we thought was being opened up to in the last Question Time, and that is what I have asked here, and then what I am so modest and limited in my demand is that I ask: could we not at least open up to summer house owners from the old Danish provinces in southern Sweden?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140411	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140412	In fact, I think that the questioner, with his succinct wording, also hits some of what we need to think about, namely that it is difficult to see Norway, Sweden, Germany and perhaps other countries, Iceland, Finland, independently of each other. Of course, this has a health and economic perspective above all, but somewhere there is also a significant foreign policy element in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140451	Thank you. Then it's the co-questioner's turn. Here you go, Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140454	Doesn't impress the Minister for Justice at all that there, like Mr. Bertel Haarder mentioned, in fact, is a majority in the Folketing who wants to bid, among other things. the German tourists welcome to Denmark? Do not impress the Minister at all that Denmark, yes, since the border was closed, waves goodbye to 200 million. kr. in the absence of turnover daily, all the time that the building right next to us is looking with light and light for instruments to get the Danish economy going again? Then the minister sits here without retreating a mine and refers to the agreement that allows Germans and Norwegians who are fortunate enough to have been allowed to buy a summer house in Denmark, to come to Denmark; allowing families to meet in the border country. Does the Minister not have the impression that there are thousands of jobs at stake here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140554	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140554-2	Yes, it does, as I know, that the questioner and the author's party are impressed by the fact that they have succeeded in bringing the covid infection into a reasonable framework in Denmark and in getting some control of the pressure of infection. I would just like to say, and this is probably an experience that I share, I imagine, with both the questioner and the co-questioner, who have also been ministers of several rounds • that one as a minister is always responsive to the majority that may arise in the Folketing
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140630	Then it's mr. Bertel Haarder again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140635	There is no health evidence for that closure. There is a majority in the Folketing to open the door. Nevertheless, the Swedes and the Danes must keep in line when going over the Øresund. Is the Minister aware that there was a long queue of Danes which, after the weekend, would return to Denmark? According to the newspaper Sydsvenskan, the hours-long cows arose on Sunday evening at 5 p.m. and at 5 p.m. 8:00 a.m. the line was 6 km long, and at 8:00 a.m. 23.30 was the line 2 km long. Will there be a solution from the government on Friday to this completely self-created problem, which has no beneficial health effect at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140721	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140721-2	Now I know that the questioner has a great look beyond the Danish borders, which is why I am also sure that the questioner is aware that there is virtually no one, if there are any, countries in the EU or the Schengen area, who have not also made travel restrictions going beyond the Danish, some like the Danish, some less far-reaching, but have done so and no one has said: all non-necessary journeys we advise against in some form or other. So this situation isn't something we're dealing with alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140803	Thank you, sir. Bertel Haarder, thank you to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, and thank you to the Minister for Justice. The next item is Question 10, which is also for the Minister of Justice, and this time it is Mr. Nils Sjøberg of the Radical Left, who has a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140816	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140818	Thank you. The Corona crisis clearly shows that Denmark needs to be prepared for a possible future pandemic. Does the Minister consider that there is a basis for maintaining a protection agency, which can have an overview of a production equipment etc., and which can in a short time provide or produce the necessary protective equipment so that we do not have to rely on the global market, and has the Minister considered where such a protection agency should be located in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140849	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140850	The questioner came to misread and said maintain a protective agency instead of setting up a protective agency, and that makes a certain difference. For what the author is asking for, and what the Radical Left is thus looking at, is the wisdom of the government's decision to set up exactly such a governing body.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140912	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527140913	Thank you. On 20 April, the newspapers wrote: Doubtful quality of protective equipment, millions of masks for Danish doctors and nurses discarded, the Danish Safety Authority has tested patients and lots that have used 20 million masks. Five million have been discarded. On May 4, it said: Lack of corona protection led authorities to change guidelines in hospitals. Guidelines for protective equipment have created great insecurity and have been quietly adjusted to stock levels. And yesterday it said that blood banks stop testing for antibodies to the corona virus. The three headlines from Denmark's Radio clearly show that we need a Protection Agency in Denmark; that Denmark needs to be prepared for a possible future pandemic. We need an overview of a production plant, in order to provide protective equipment and to produce the necessary protective equipment so that we do not have to rely on the global market. And we need it to be central in Denmark. When I live in Kolding, it is rarely particularly flattering to live in what is called northern Europe's intersection, as Kolding is called. But Kolding's mayor has made an offer to place the Defense Agency in Kolding, and he has the support of a wide range of politicians both locally and here in the Danish Parliament. Couldn't it be an option to place the protection agency in Kolding, according to the mayor, centrally? A place where the municipality believes it can secure the necessary and qualified employees; where there is room for the necessary 100, which has been discussed, which according to the mayor can be done fairly quickly. I heard the Minister reply to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt just now, i.e. that it might be in Kolding. Can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141112	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141113	I really think it is worth asking whether the questioner, referring to the three articles mentioned, considers it appropriate, timely and wise that the government has decided to set up such a board.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141133	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141135	I shall reply to that: yes, I think that is certainly a timely and a good idea, precisely based on the three factors that apply here. But it is always enjoyable to be asked about such things. Now I'd like to hear the Justice Minister's answer to things... but it's a good idea in my opinion. Very few municipalities can offer the location of Kolding. The previous government had a strong focus on relocation of jobs. That is why I would like to know what the views of the current government are. Now to ask the Minister for Justice a question that is very central to us: what do the current government have in mind to maintain the new administration outside the capital? After all, it's cheaper.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141216	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141217	As the questioner knows, it is part of the understanding paper between the government and among others. The author's party to focus on ensuring a complete and coherent Denmark and a decentralised Denmark. I welcome the agreement that some of what the new management should be able to do, which is already in the new management, is to dimension and coordinate test capacity, strengthen the detection of infection, do information activities, coordinate operational interventions and ensure the supply of some of the protective equipment mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141253	Sir. Nils Sjøberg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141254	Thank you. I do not really think I am getting an answer from the Minister. What I am asking is: could one imagine that a city with a location like Kolding could be attractive in relation to a location of the Protection Agency?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141307	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141308	However, I understand that the questioner also heard my answer to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, who raised exactly the same question and who commended Kolding as the obvious place to set up such a governing body. I also recognised the many qualities that Kolding has. But I also have to say that this decision is not taken here, not between us, but on the basis of the considerations being considered by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141339	Thank you, sir. Nils Sjøberg for the question, and thank the Minister for Justice. Then that is the last question to the Minister for Justice this time, and this time it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left who is asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141350	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141353	Thank you. The question is: what is the Minister's attitude to opening the border for German boat owners who have a boat in Denmark on an equal footing with German holiday home owners?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141405	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141406	Thank you for the question. As you know, the Government and the parties of the Folketing have reached an agreement on further reopening in phase two. As stated in that agreement, with effect from Monday, 25 May, it has been possible for foreigners resident in the Nordic countries and Germany to enter if they own a holiday home in Denmark in which they wish to stay. I'm glad. Because it is a result of the fact that we in Denmark now have such a good understanding of the situation that we can also start opening up our borders a little more. Pleasure boat owners are not included in the expansion decided by the government with effect from Monday. I guess I can understand if somebody's freaking out about it. I think, in general terms, that many people have wanted them to, at the same time, I think we also agree that it is important to continue to insist that we proceed in a controlled manner so that we do not suddenly lose control of the infection. Therefore, the reopening needs to be gradual. The Government will, as is also apparent from the agreement with the parties of the Folketing, present, by Friday 29 May at the latest, a health-friendly plan for a controlled and gradual reopening of summer tourism. There we will also decide when access should be granted to groups other than those who can now enter Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141536	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141537	Thank you for your answer. The reason why I am taking this opportunity this Wednesday afternoon to ask this question is, of course, that many of us are also contacted by German boat owners. We are also contacted by various marinas, which are actually in a huge dilemma these weeks. For it is also the case that, according to the rules, the owners of the boats must supervise, etc. with the boats to ensure that they are maintained, but for that matter also ensure that they do not suddenly sink in the harbor for some reason. Therefore, they are a little in some kind of dilemma, one might say. You cannot tell the German boat owners that they now have to keep an eye on their boats, because they simply cannot get across the border. I'd like to ask you something. Those of us who also know about sailing know that you are out in the fresh air at least most of the time. So what is the reason why it just became the cottage owners and not the boat owners that were now allowed in the first place? I fully agree with the Minister that we in the Left are also very pleased that the cottage owners have been allowed to cross the Danish-German border, but what is the reason why the boat owners cannot be allowed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141700	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141701	The question of why it just became holiday home owners is a good question, because when we decide that we want to reopen Denmark, we will have to do it cautiously and gradually. I do not think that there are any parties who think otherwise. I know that the author's party is certainly not in favour of us just opening everything up at once. In other words, we have to pick out some things that we then open up to. That is very much what was agreed on stage two here last week between the author's party and, incidentally, all the parties in the Folketing, and the government. And there have also been some other worthy purposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141738	Thank you. We'll have to take that later. Here you go, Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141741	Thank you. But what I really just need to know is that it hasn't been forgotten. Because I could imagine that if you measured the health effect of this, it was almost more reasonable to say yes to the boat owners, also because, as I said, they are usually out in the open. So can the Minister of Justice somehow explain or give an indication that they will hopefully be in the next round?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141815	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141816	But as early as Friday we will come up with a plan for a controlled and gradual reopening of summer tourism. One of the elements that is part of the summer tourism in Denmark is the boat holidays. This does not say what our presentation will be or anything, but I just want to say that the government has not forgotten the boat tourism in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141840	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141841	I am sure that you have not forgotten the boat owners in this context, also because there are, in fact, a great many boats located in the South Jutland marinas in particular. And I know that we could then continue with those who are still in camping sites and so on. But I hope in some way that the Minister will finally state that this is something that we are aware of, even when we hope to announce something new on Friday.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141914	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141915	I can assure the questioner that the government has no intention of keeping the borders closed longer than the maximum necessary. We sit very much and assess how we can properly open the borders in a cautious way, so that we do not jeopardise the great gains we have achieved in terms of health. These are the gains that have made us, on many and long stretches, really have been able to now open our society to normal activity again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141941	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left and thank you to the Minister for Justice. There are no more questions for the Minister of Justice this time. The next question is Question 12 to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply by Mrs Marie Bjerre from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141955	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527141957	Thank you. When will the Minister call for negotiations on a long-term plan to secure alternative propellants as called for by a broad majority in the Folketing during the examination of Question No. F 26?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142013	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142014	I am not in a position today to give a date, but what I can say is that we will do so in the autumn, in the context of negotiating the climate action plan and the climate programme, which we are fortunately committed to with the new climate law we are in the process of adopting here in Parliament. This is an extremely important issue. Unfortunately, this is something that the questioner cannot help, because she was not a member of the Folketing at that time, a subject that was totally neglected by the previous government, which, of course, made us in a very unfortunate situation last year, where we had to make some temporary decisions that none of us, I think, is particularly satisfied with. That is why the questioner is quite right in what I sense is the intention behind the issue, namely that we need to find a much longer-term solution. I can't wait to see if we can find that together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142105	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142106	Thank you for your answer, and also thank you for being so clear that the Minister will call for negotiations in the autumn, and remember to sign for it when you get a clear answer in this Chamber. However, I am rather unhappy with the answer, because I am actually wondering why the Minister will not convene negotiations until the autumn. I dare say that we had a rather unsightly course in the negotiations on the increase in the incorporation requirement in the autumn, when we increased it from 5.75 to 7.6 in 2020. The problem is that this increase only applies to 2020, and one month before, fuel suppliers did not really know what the requirement would be for them by 2020. Now we end up in the same situation in this autumn, when again shortly before we have no idea what is going on from 2021. This is very problematic for fuel suppliers. That is why we in the Left also called for a debate on the long-term plans and a long-term strategy on what to do with alternative fuels alongside those negotiations. We even repeated it in our report's contribution, and we actually had a question debate in this Chamber in February this year, when a broad majority in the Folketing, including the Minister's own party, called on the government to start negotiations before the summer break of 2020 in order to come up with a long-term plan for what will happen to biofuels. Now that you have such a clear call from a broad majority in the Folketing, including the Minister's own party, I would like to hear why the Minister will not respond to that challenge and why the Minister cannot call for negotiations on this side of the summer holiday.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142244	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142245	I think it is also the questioner who is aware of why this is so, but I should nevertheless like to say so so that it cannot be misunderstood: 14 days after we had the meeting referred to here, Denmark was in the middle of a huge crisis, and we are still doing so. We are in the midst of a huge health crisis which, by its very nature, takes the lion's share of the government's attention. This does not mean that we should not deal with other problems too, and that does not mean that we should not also pursue policies that are not specifically related to corona. But, of course, that means that we have to give priority, and that is why there are things that have been prioritised before that. We have now started the climate negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142328	Mrs. Marie Bjerre, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142329	Should I understand that the health crisis that that country has been in and is in means that we cannot discuss what should apply to alternative fuels and that we cannot achieve it before the summer break? Why cannot the Minister call for negotiations on what should happen so that we do not end up in the same situation? Otherwise, we are exactly the same place in this autumn as we did last autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142350	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142350-2	The questioner's party failed to do anything about it for four years. We then managed to make a temporary solution in the months we had to it after we gained power last year. We are also going to come up with a solution in the long term, but it is clear that if it is to be a lasting solution, it must of course be a solution that must be considered together with our efforts to displace CO2 We have therefore given priority to the fact that what we are starting with this spring is part of a climate trade plan that we came up with last week, such as, among other things. include offshore wind turbine islands and others.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142425	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142426	Frankly, I am somewhat surprised that we will not be able to discuss what should apply to alternative fuels after 2020, on this side of the summer holiday, and that the Minister cannot convene a meeting to clarify this. After all, we are at risk of being in the same situation in this autumn, when fuel suppliers do not know what will happen after the turn of the year, before a short time before. That is why my final question is: when does the Minister expect fuel suppliers to know what is required for 2021?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142458	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142459	Well, we have presented what we think are the first things to be discussed in connection with the climate action plan. We had a meeting yesterday with the various parties. I do not recall that the Left, at that meeting, or indeed the public, said that what they insist on should be the first decisions taken on the climate front, is about precisely that problem here. That does not mean that I do not know that the Left thinks it is important. So do we. But the author's party did not make this the most important point. If you do so, and you are free to do so, you will probably also have to have a proposal on what it is that we should push, because right now we are quite pressured on time. I think most people understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142540	Thank you both to the questioner and to the Minister. Question 13 on the agenda is for exactly the same team. It is for the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply, and this time it is also for Mrs Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142551	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142554	Thank you. We remain on the same subject and I am reading the question: what does the Minister think the requirements for mixing biofuels, including the advanced incorporation requirement, should look like after 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142607	In any case, it must be seen in the context of a general strategy on how to displace CO2 In other words, it cannot be seen in isolation from the other initiatives we are taking. For the time being, in connection with the proposal we have made for a climate trade plan, we have introduced a great deal of effort on power-to-x. That, of course, also matters. I think the questioner will agree with that. Of course, no specific proposal on exactly how to apply mixing requirements, etc. is available at this stage. We have also raised these points in the previous question. So we haven't solved that problem. The previous government did not look at it at all in four years; we have not managed to resolve it finally yet, but we have said quite clearly that it will be part of our debates this autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142658	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142659	I hear that the Minister and the government see the problem more broadly, also looking at a displacement requirement, looking at some power-to-x and looking at alternative options for a more green transport sector. However, we will probably not get around the fact that it is the liquid biofuels and biogas that, in the short term, can provide a green transport sector, which is why I also ask what the incorporation requirement should be for 2021 and forward-looking. Because I actually think there are a lot of fuel suppliers who are very interested in knowing that. After all, the increase we voted for this year only applies to this year, so we are not going to do anything about it; the Minister is not going to go back to 5.75 in 2021. Does the Minister expect us to go back to that level and is that acceptable to the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142753	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142754	No, as I have repeated, I think three or four or five times now, we will be negotiating this after the summer break.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142801	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142802	Okay, but maybe I just need to spell it out, because I think there are a lot of fuel suppliers who would like to: Does this mean that the incorporation requirement in 2021 does not go back to 5.75?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142817	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142818	Now the questioner started by commending me for giving a clear answer, but it seems that the clear answer I have given has already been forgotten: we will have to negotiate this after the summer break. What the negotiations are leading to, by their very nature, I cannot guarantee, nor do I yet have the government's final initiative in this area, so it would be premature to speculate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142838	Mrs. Marie Bjerre, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142839	Well, now I ask what the Minister thinks and what the Minister wants. There is no doubt that we in the Left would like to have long-term discussions and we want a long-term plan of what should apply to alternative propellants. However, in the short term, there will have to be clarity and we cannot wait until the autumn. The fuel suppliers need to know what the incorporation requirement is, and that is why we must at least be able to ensure that it does not fall again, in other words that it will rise and then fall next year. That is totally untenable, so I ask again: does the Minister think that it is acceptable that the incorporation requirement should fall at the turn of the year?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142912	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142914	It's nice to have an indignant asker. And yes, you can imagine all sorts of things that could have happened during the past period if the then government, which did nothing about this area for four years, had had the questioner in its circle. Because then maybe something had happened. Then it did not, and that means that we are facing some challenges now. We ourselves have asked for power, so of course we welcome the challenges, but it is clear that we will not be rushed into doing anything. We wish we were longer in the process of the climate trade plan. It is clear that it has been pushed because of the corona crisis. However, I have made a firm commitment here today, which I will of course stand by, so this is something we have to discuss on the other side of the summer holiday.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527142955	Thank you to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply, and thank you to the author, Mrs Bjerre from the Left. The next item is item 14: a question to the Minister for Health and the Elderly by Per Larsen, of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527143007	Here you go, sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527143010	Thank you. Although on 1 May 2020 a broad majority of Parliament's parties reached an agreement to strengthen the opportunities for visits to care for the elderly, many elderly people are still unable to receive visits, as shown in the Elders' Press Release • Residents in nursing homes do not have time to wait for bunch immunity, treatment or a vaccine • from 18 May 2020, what is the Minister's view that many elderly people still cannot get visits despite the agreement, and what will the Minister do to ensure that more elderly people can get visits more quickly from their relatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527143058	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527143059	Thank you for the question. As you know, the aim of these restrictions is, of course, to protect our particularly vulnerable groups, for example. Our elderly, against an infection that can have fatal consequences. It appears from a report by the Statens Serum Institut from earlier this month that, unfortunately, 170 deaths were reported among nursing home residents at that time. This corresponds to about a third of all observed covid-19 deaths here in Denmark. I know that the visitor restrictions have major consequences for the nursing homes and for their relatives. They have changed their everyday lives, and close contact with relatives has been limited for a long, long time now. I am sorry to hear that the restrictions may have been interpreted too restrictively in some places and that this may have led to unnecessary isolation in nursing homes. I expect the individual municipalities and nursing homes to change their procedures immediately if they have used the visitor restrictions for example. to prohibit the exit of residents. We are constantly focusing on the fact that restrictions should not be more intrusive than necessary. That is why I am also pleased that the agreement on initiatives for the weaker elderly provides funds to support family and family visits. Together with the Danish Health Authority's guidelines for visits to e.g. We have strengthened the municipalities' ability to support the residents' contact with relatives. But I also understand that there may be some places where visits outside can not be an option. On Wednesday, an agreement was reached on a further opening in phase two between the Government and all the other parties of the Folketing. visit restrictions shall be abolished or organised to the extent that they are justified in terms of health. We are now in the process of clarifying what opportunities can be opened up to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527143248	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527143249	Thank you. I am very pleased to hear that the Minister has been aware that there are older centres and some municipalities that have interpreted the rules very restrictively. But the situation has changed. At the beginning of the covid-19 period, when these very restrictive approaches were introduced for visits, the country was in a different situation, because then we had limited test capacity, and we also had limited access to protective equipment, and the care sector was in fact one of the sectors that was chosen from both testing and use of protective equipment. So does the Minister not think that the situation is different now, so that we have better opportunities to protect the elderly and also better opportunities to test both staff, the elderly and relatives, and thus perhaps to ease restrictions in a health-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care system?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527143344	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527143345	Yeah, and everything that's being said is right. I would like to add by saying that the fact that we have the epidemic under control and that we are currently seeing some low levels of infection also makes it possible. In concrete terms, on the basis of the broad political agreement, we have begun work to identify the possibilities for organising visit restrictions. But we must also still say that it must therefore be medically justified for the reason that we must do what we can to ensure that we do not have a new flare-up of deaths in our nursing homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527143421	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527143422	Of course, I fully agree with the Minister on this. But we also need to be aware that there are a great many elderly people who have now been in a very, very long time and a little wonder that they have not had the opportunity to have visitors from their loved ones. The same applies to many of the relatives, i.e. spouses, who are also older people, whom it means a lot to allow them to visit their relatives. But I hope that this will be the last time the Minister will follow the battle closely and, together with the parties of the Danish Parliament, will do his utmost to ease the situation and ensure that the possibility of visiting the care centres is improved as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527143510	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527143511	I would very much like to give that commitment, and I would also like to thank you for the focus that was precisely on testing the initial question. For now that we have ensured that we have strengthened our test capacity, I think it is quite obvious to see the testing, not as a guarantee, not as something else, but as a complement to strengthening the security of visits. I think it is quite obvious that it should be included in the concrete work of the sectoral partnership as a means of implementing the political agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527143543	Thank you. I understand that there was no need for a follow-up question. Thank you, sir. Per Larsen. The next person to ask questions to the Minister for Health and the Elderly is Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527143543-2	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527143556	Thank you. Why does the Minister think it is important for health services to close at 9 a.m. 24?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527143602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527143603	I am very sorry, because we also have another question today, so I have to be absolutely sure that I am saying the right thing on this issue. It might just be that I'm answering something completely wrong. On 7 May, the government concluded an agreement with all parties of the Folketing on the second phase of a controlled reopening. It is clear from the agreement that restaurants, cafés and the like can serve under detailed guidelines, including: concerning opening hours, physical distance, etc. It is an essential prerequisite for the opening of servers that premises and land etc. are designed in a way that minimises the risk of spread of infection. Some guidelines have been drawn up, and it is quite right that this should be done here, among other things. they must close at 1 p.m. Twenty-four, at midnight. In addition, there are other recommendations on distance, companies, cleaning, hygiene etc. The Health Authority's general recommendations on prevention of spread of infection are the basis of these guidelines, and it has been a sectoral partnership with the Ministry of Business, the Agency for Patient Safety, the business community and the social partners who have been involved in their preparation. For my answer, we have then asked the Danish Health Service to elaborate on what is the basis for the recommendation on closing times. You state, and I would like to quote: in practice, it will be particularly difficult to comply with the recommendations in certain situations when, for example, it is difficult to apply them. alcohol is poured out during celebrations, concerts, etc. Therefore, in order to reduce infection as much as possible, the recommendation is to consider other measures including closing times. There is no medical evidence to recommend one particular closing time for serving sites, but according to the above, it must be pragmatic to close at a time when guests are likely to still be able to comply adequately with the general recommendations. Thank you, President, for allowing me to go through the papers. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527143821	I could also have recalled what kind of question it was, for that is Question 1233. The questioner for an in-depth question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527143830	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. So the minister thinks that people are too drunk if they stay at the servers after 8:00. 24, and that's why the minister feels the need to be a nanny and say, "Okay, folks, you're all gonna have to go home at 8:00." 24. Because that is what the Minister referred to in his reply, that is to say that it is about drinking alcohol, and people cannot control it after 1 p.m. 24. So the Minister believes that the Danes are not in a position to assess for themselves whether they can comply with the rules of conduct and hygiene requirements because they consume too much alcohol if it stays after 24 hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527143909	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527143910	I refer again to the Danish Health Service, which considers that in practice it will be particularly difficult to comply with the recommendations in these situations. The recommendations are, of course, among other things. distance, not least distance in relation to standing serving and other distance requirements, and therefore it is that the Danish Health Authority considers that it is assumed from a pragmatic approach to introduce a closing time. When it's just about 9:00 a.m. 24:00 a.m. 01:00 or 10:00. Of course, we cannot look up a table on 23.00, but we must take political responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527143950	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527143951	I would like the Minister to explain why these rules can be dealt with at 1 p.m. 11:00 a.m., but not 11:00 a.m. 1. Well, what's in that the Danes have to be sent home at 8:00? 24, rather than letting the servers have the opening hours that they usually have and where people can find a way to behave reasonably in relation to how to behave now when you are out among other people? So what is the Minister's explanation for being able to comply with those rules at 1 p.m. 23, but you can't do it at 11:00. One?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527144028	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527144029	Am I to understand that the proposal here is that we stop having this requirement? I think that is very, very unwise. You can see that in those countries in the world that have not introduced these requirements, they have experienced these super-infectious events. It is now very, very well described that there are super-contaminated events at server sites and other places, where you have been sitting long into the night and where all safety requirements have gone the whistle, after which, in Europe too, you have had super-contaminated, which has also reached Danes. It is very well described, and I would like to warn very, very strongly against the fact that we are throwing away responsibility and that we are not keeping our hands on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527144106	Thank you. Then it's the co-questioner, Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527144108	However, what the Minister refers to about super-infection happened to me in an after-skis place, among other things. in Ischgl, and it was long before kl. 24:00, say hello. So I simply do not really understand the Minister's argument here and can therefore only understand the instructions here that you should not sit in a restaurant after 1 p.m. 24.00, as a guardianship, which I absolutely do not share. Like Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, I find it difficult to see how an infection can spread more quickly when you get on the other side of the clock. 24:00 a.m. 24.01 than e.g. 8:00 p.m. 23.59. I simply find that difficult to understand. What it is all about is that, for me at least, the recommendations of behaviour made by the authorities, which we have all made ourselves very, very hard to live up to, are being complied with. In my view, this is the best way to ensure that there is no super-spreading. It doesn't have a damn thing to do with whether it's at 9:00 a.m. 9:00 a.m. or it's 9:00 a.m. 24.00 or after 12:00. 24:00.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527144224	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527144225	But it's nice to know that you're much smarter and that you think it's safe from some kind of gut feeling to ignore these health warnings from our health authorities. I could understand it if they said that we are wearing belts and belts that we put on cautiously. You want the opposite. You're going to ignore this clear recommendation. After all, it is only a very, very great responsibility that one is ready to take on as a legislator in this country, if one says that the health authorities' clear recommendation that we should reduce infection as much as possible can be ignored. And it surprises me, after everything we've been through, that this is the kind of pressure that needs to be put. But you have to stand by that yourself. I'm not gonna change my mind about this. Nor am I going to say, as I said in my opening answer, that it is precisely health care at 9: 00 p.m. 24.00 and not 24.00. 24.01 or kl. Ten minutes to midnight, because you can't say that. But when the Danish Health Authority so clearly says what makes good sense, that it may make sense to make such time intervals and some closing times, then it will be very, very responsible to listen to it and do so. And that's what we've done.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527144341	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527144343	The responsibility here for me is what kind of behavior it is. If you sit quietly in a dining room and comply with the very accurately described guidelines, which have been issued, then I do not think it suits the government or, for that matter, the authorities to decide whether to sit there until after 8 a.m. 24 or not. For me, it's the behavior it's about. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527144411	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527144412	I totally agree. I fully agree that this is what we are talking about. Then I can ask you how, if you are responsible for a country, and we have that in this parliament hall, then you have to ensure that behavior. If you sit quietly in a restaurant, I quite agree that you can easily make it to 1 p.m. 1.00 and 2.00, sit and keep distance and make sure that there is no standing serving of alcohol, and all the things that are now in these guidelines. That can easily be adhered to. But in the nearby restaurant there may be a little more life and happy days and perhaps even more with the neighbor. And I would be rather uncomfortable if we, as a society, said that we should just hope for that going well, especially when there are such clear recommendations that this should be taken seriously. I think we should.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527144453	Then it's the last round with Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527144456	In fact, I also think it is very important that we take this seriously, and that is why I am asking what is happening at noon. 24:00. Well, what does the Minister think there is such a big difference between things? If that neighboring café, which the minister apparently distrusts, doesn't comply with the rules at 1 p.m. 17 in the afternoon, it's not as bad as if it were at 5:00. One or two at night? So it is not a question of complying with the hygiene rules and the rules of conduct that are being applied and not of being a nanny? I am sorry that the Minister says that the Minister will not change his attitude that people should be sent home at noon. 24. Is it in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527144538	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527144538-2	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527144545	Thank you to Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen and Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. The next question is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 1254, and the questioner is Mr. Peter Skaarup, and it's for the Minister of Health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527144556	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527144559	I read the question: did the Minister think it was true that the press conference of 11 March 2020 told the Danes that the closure of Denmark took place on the recommendation of the authorities and, if so, what specific authorities were involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527144619	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527144620	Thank you for the question. On 1 March we had in Denmark 4 found infected with covid-19, and on 11 March we had 514 infected with covid-19. It is in 10 days an increase of 12,750 per cent. The risk assessment carried out by the Danish Health Authority of 10 March shows that we in the EU, including Denmark, will see infection chains as well as in Northern Italy are of the ECDC • The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control •d. 8 March 2020 estimated to be high. The health professional advice was clear. We should have broken the infection chains, and the recommendation was therefore to reduce human activity and contact. The government has all the way consulted a large number of authorities in this extraordinary crisis we have been in, including, of course, the Danish Health Authority, also the State's Serum Institute, which is the state's experts in epidemiology and pandemics, and they advise us in connection with the reopening. They also advised us in connection with the decommissioning. In the weeks and days leading up to the decommissioning, when the infection rate increased at great speed, we consulted with relevant authorities. We were faced with a really described risk that health services would collapse, and thus society and the economy as well. On top of the health professional advice and assessment and the advice from all other authorities concerned, the political choice came: how quickly and how hard we should take action in Denmark. And in a democracy, it is, of course, a political choice to do something as intrusive as shutting down a country. It is a political responsibility, I accept that responsibility, and that responsibility is fully assumed by the government. For reasons of principle, I do not want to go into how the government's internal decision-making processes have been conducted, but I can say that it is a broad circle of ministries and authorities that have advised the government in the political decision-making process. It is a comprehensive consultative body which forms the basis for such a large political decision. It is not just advice from an authority.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527144824	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527144825	I thank you for your answer. The Minister has mentioned the things that Denmark has done to combat the corona. That is not what we are discussing here. We're discussing whether or not an official recommendation has been made to the Prime Minister. That is what we are asking here in this Question Time. I would have liked to ask the Prime Minister, but she didn't want to answer questions about this case, but left it to the Minister for Health and the elderly. The Danish People's Party has also tried to ask the Prime Minister some other questions. Here, our Members of Parliament have said that these are questions to the Prime Minister, which is why they have withdrawn the questions because she did not want to go to the Chamber and answer them. Having said that, the Minister for Health obviously has the opportunity to answer the question on behalf of the government, and I would like to repeat the question because we did not get a reply to it. The question is this: was it true when the Prime Minister said that it was on a recommendation from the Danish authorities that it was shut down? I can just quote what the Prime Minister said there on 11 March at night. The Prime Minister said: "It is the recommendation of the authorities that we shut down all unnecessary activity in a number of areas for a period of time. We are not talking about whether we agree or disagree that one should do so. We ask only what authority it was that made the clear recommendation that the Prime Minister said had come. What authority was that? That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527145008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527145009	During the days leading up to the closure, the government consulted a large number of ministries and authorities. This decommissioning was not, of course, a tool in the toolbox at the time, i.e. to shut down a country as massively and early as we did in Denmark, but not as hard as many other countries unfortunately had to do a lot harder afterwards and, unfortunately, for some countries too late. However, the recommendation by the health authorities was quite clear to break the chains of infection by minimising activity and social human contact. And because the assessment was so clear, and with the speed the infection spread, it was on the way to being able to go really wrong too in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527145047	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527145047-2	Thank you again for the statement on how right it was. That is not what we are discussing here; that is not what we are asking. We are only asking about the only thing that is in the question that has been submitted on time, and the government can of course make sure first of all what it is about what some authorities recommended the decommissioning that the Prime Minister spoke about at the press conference on 11 March. What kind of authorities were they? The newspaper Jyllands-Posten has examined whether it was the Danish Health Authority. It wasn't. Then who was it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527145123	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527145124	The recommendation from the health authorities was clearly to break the chains of infection. And examples of the Health Authority's concrete proposal from 10 March are: minimize activity and social human contact, avoid public transport during peak hours, extend holidays and weekends, encourage changing meeting culture in workplaces, limit visits to nursing homes and hospitals. Then, of course, it was a political responsibility to decide which tools should be used. And the government has a perfect target for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527145200	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527145200-2	Thank you to the Minister, but that was a reading of some things that the Minister might have prepared in advance, but that was not the answer to the question that was asked. And I don't know if the minister is tone-deaf or something... I'm sorry about that term... but the minister is asked what kind of authority it was. And I say that I saw from Jyllands-Posten know that it wasn't the Danish Health Authority. We also know from the Ekstrabladet's revelation here yesterday that it was certainly not from the Danish Health Authority, where there was a lot of talk against it. Who was that? Can't we get that answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527145238	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527145239	As I have mentioned sometimes here, during the days leading up to decommissioning, the government consulted a number of authorities and a number of ministries. Such a comprehensive and large decision is not and cannot be based on a single authority. A large number of authorities and ministries are involved in such a decision. However, for reasons of principle, I cannot go into how the internal processes of the government have been conducted in relation to this decision. It's logical.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527145306	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup, and thank you to the Minister for Health and the elderly. There are no more questions for the Minister for Health and the elderly in this case. The next question is to the Minister for Children and Education by Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527145321	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527145324	The question is: Does the Minister recognise that a future operating agreement is in line with the 2018 Vocational Training Agreement, in view of the fact that in a letter dated 5 May 2020 the Mayor of Bornholm has asked for the possibility of exemption from section 20 of the Folkeskoleloven? 1, so that an operating agreement can be concluded with Campus Bornholm on a 10th-class offer where there is a longer dialogue with the Ministry?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527145354	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527145355	Thank you for the question. This is a bit of a funny thing, because one somehow gets stuck between the intentions of one agreement and the legislation in another area, and we have to try to sort this out somehow. I would like to assure you here that we are at least prepared to do so by the government. Understandably, we will probably have to take it up in the public school circle. I think that is the end of it, simply because there is no legal basis in the current legislation to allow it. And that means that there is clearly a political desire on my part to resolve it, because I believe that, following on from the rapporteur's remarks, this is in line with the agreement we reached with each other. However, it has not been taken into account that one could encounter the framework of the primary school law in relation to having to class. This is indeed required by the primary school law, which means that in order to be able to give the commitment that I can hear we share and want to give to Bornholm, it requires a change of law in this area. I have also asked in the ministry about the possibility of providing an experimental scheme, and we are still uncovering this, but there are not very optimistic notes on this issue, and I do not believe that there is any way around that we will return to it in the public school circle and take it from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527145506	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527145506-2	Thank you, Minister. I can say on behalf of my party that, of course, we stand by the agreements we have made and one of the initiatives contained in the agreement was precisely that this should be an opportunity. Then all we have to do is get the law in place. However, I would like to acknowledge that the Minister has examined the possibility of granting a derogation if such a thing can be supported in the conciliation circle, so that it was possible to get started. And the reason why it is important to get started is that we are in the lucky situation on Bornholm, if I have understood correctly that we actually have more internships than we have students to fill those internships. So we need to get some more customers in the store, and since the minister hasn't been very accommodating on the school-home part, I have to have those students myself, so I think there's really good sense in this. However, I am taking it down positively, and I hope, of course, that the Minister will work to ensure that there is some sort of exemption mechanism so that the mayor can get an answer back and they can move on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527145609	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527145610	It can be said that it certainly makes it extremely easier for the rapporteur to bring it up with me in relation to the work I have to do. For it is clear that if there is a broad consensus in the Folketing on this, it is considerably easier to change things in the conciliation structure we have. But we have not yet finished uncovering whether this is possible within the existing rules. I would just like to emphasise that, so it is quite clear. And that means that we are not finished with the concrete process of dealing with it and that we are uncovering all the corners of it. It is, of course, easy if it can be done within the current rules, otherwise there will be a time gap because we have to deal with legislation. However, I very much hope that, in addition to the commitment of the Left to look at it, we can also get the other parties in the Folketing to resolve this as soon as possible, because the intention is, of course, that there should be these flexible frameworks that we have agreed in the Business School Agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527145655	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527145655-2	Yeah, I have one question left here. The minister leans on a really physical hug. You can't do that at the moment, so if it doesn't become virtual, then at least close to it, because this is the way we're going to go. There is a vocational school in Horsens, called Learnmark, which has gotten 10th grade into their vocational school, and this has meant an increased approach on the eud line of 50 per cent, and that is what we are going to do. On Bornholm we have a campus, which means that we can also support with a youth environment, and that means that the young people, who may be a little in doubt about what to do, what to spend their lives on, and which way to go, have an opportunity to go and mirror themselves in the older campus students. And that's why it's so important that we make those strong educational clusters (fourth Vice-President Thank you!). I would just like to ask the Minister whether the Minister is prepared to do more to ensure that our vocational training courses are given more applicants.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527145755	Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527145756	Yes, indeed. I mean, I've been saying this a little cocky and I mean it, so even though it sounds crazy, I actually think it's very serious that when I'm done being a minister, the apprenticeship problem has to be solved. Because I think that if we are to point out an independent thing which prevents young people from wanting to take up vocational training, it is that they cannot be sure of implementing it. And it's still gone so year after year that when we reach the month of August, half of the students who finish their basic course in June still do not have an apprenticeship. And that's just not gonna work. Imagine half of the 2nd Gs didn't know if their 2nd Gs were being created. This is a totally unacceptable situation and, indeed, I certainly intend to do all I can to resolve it. And there is such an action as this one, by the way, one step along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527145839	Yes, thank you. Would the questioner like further questions? Peter Juel-Jensen No, I am satisfied). Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for Children and Education, and thank you to Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen. The next question is to the Minister for Industry, and that is what Mr. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527145851	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527145854	Thank you, Mr President. What is the Minister's view that significantly fewer companies have gone bankrupt during the first 21⁄2 months of the corona crisis compared to the same period over the last 5 years, and what are the Minister's expectations of the extent of bankruptcies for the rest of the year?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527145917	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527145918	Thank you for that question. The Corona crisis is very extraordinary and, like many others, I am very aware of how the Danish business community is going through this crisis. We do not yet see the consequences of the corona crisis in registered bankruptcies, as there is a delay in registering a bankruptcy. In concrete terms, an application for bankruptcy is submitted to the Shift Law, which assesses whether the conditions for bankruptcy have been met and if the conditions are met, the Shift Law declares the company bankrupt. The bankruptcy is then dealt with, and only then will the company be registered in the CVR that the company is in bankruptcy. This process means that we cannot yet see the full consequences of the covid-19 in the registered bankruptcies. In addition, the shift courts, like many other public institutions, have been partially closed for a period due to the covid-19, which has meant that fewer bankruptcy cases than have normally been dealt with during the period. And then we have postponed the companies' deadlines for paying tax and VAT, which also postpones the bankruptcy of those companies that will not be able to pay. Because of all these circumstances, it will be a little longer before we see the full effect of the corona crisis in registered bankruptcies. As the crisis is still not over and we still do not have a full overview of the consequences, either for society or business, I will refrain from making assessments of how many companies this crisis may end up sending to bankruptcy. I am convinced that the government, together with all the parties of the Folketing and the social partners, has done the right thing by supporting business and many thousands of employees' jobs through the aid packages that we introduced. It's been holding hands under some 220,000 jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527150112	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527150113	Thank you to the Minister and also thank you for your reply, although there are certain parts of the answer that I must be a little disappointed with. Because when it comes to getting a sensible dialogue about what you can do to counteract bankruptcies or what you have to do, you have to have an expectation of what some bankruptcies you're looking at. And precisely during this corona period, it would be sensible, I think, for the Minister to sit down and consider what should happen in this context. I can tell you that there have been 1,088 bankruptcies in these first 10 weeks of the corona crisis. That's 300 less than the average over the last 11 years. I can also inform the Minister that Dansk Arbejd expects that up to 10 000-11,000 bankruptcies will follow this period, which is very much very important and therefore there is a need for action. One of the things is, of course, that you can look at what is healthy and what is unhealthy, what is profitable and what is unusable. And that is what we are about to look at: what are we going to do in relation to these aid packages that are running out? Does the Minister agree that it is the good and healthy companies that must be kept from bankruptcies, and how is that done?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527150248	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527150248-2	Well the question here indicates that there are some going bankrupt, new emerging and so it will be after the corona crisis. But it is clear: we look into a crisis that is very serious for Danish economy and for Danish companies. We have done a great deal to avoid bankruptcies and to help healthy companies through the corona crisis. Putting an exact number on what this could end up with would be wrong to do today. Instead, we are helping each other in the negotiations that are, to get as much as possible through the corona crisis, and I think that is the right approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527150324	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527150325	Here I had hoped that the Minister would reply in that we have now helped all the service companies, that is, our restaurants, hairdressers and therapists of various kinds, to avoid bankruptcy. Meanwhile, all the production companies have just produced on order by order, and now they run dry. So what we need now is to keep our hands under our production companies, our export companies, which are super important, and they are the ones facing a bankruptcy threat in front of them. What does the Minister say about that? Is there a need for us to increase demand for consumption at home, or what can we do for exporting companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527150405	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527150406	I am not sure whether it will do much about the demand for consumption at home for our export companies. But the government is very aware that Danish export companies must get through this crisis well. It is in itself good for many of them that they have been able to keep open; other countries have shut down their production companies. However, we are keen to help our export companies as well. We have already done so with loan and guarantee schemes with extraordinary focus in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the services you provide in relation to just exactly exports. So the export companies are close to the heart of the government, and we already have a sharp focus on them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527150445	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527150446	Thank you. I look forward to further negotiations on this. Economics professor Philipp Schröder has presented a very significant picture of what we risk if the aid packages are not phased out in time. Then you risk, he says, holding your hand under the Ladies' Magazine and making it more difficult for Mads Skjern to get in. What is the Minister's position on this analogy, and what is the Minister's position on when the aid packages should be phased out?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527150513	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527150514	It is a very picturesque analogy, and it has the right thing in it, that if you have help packages for a very long time, you risk holding hands under the Ladies' Magazine and making it difficult for Mads Skjern. That is also why we are now entering a process in which we will be discussing an escalation of aid packages. The experts have stated what their position is and, in view of this, we must, of course, take a political decision on how we deal with the situation together. And to return to the initial question of bankruptcy, there will be a connection here that should not be blinded to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527150553	Thank you. That was the last answer in that round of questions. The next question is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic It is addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs, again, by Mrs Ulla Tørnæs and with the co-author Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527150605	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527150606	How and by what legal basis does the Minister consider it has been clarified that the so-called neutrality principle should henceforth apply to the tripartite agreement on wage compensation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527150620	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527150620-2	Thank you for the question. As previously described by the Minister for Employment, we are endeavouring, as far as possible, by the State to avoid interference in labour disputes. This also applies when it comes to the wage compensation scheme. The principle of neutrality means that the State does not take a position in the conflict and thus does not initiate activities which may benefit either party. The principle is an objective criterion which is statutory in a number of laws in the field of the Ministry of Employment. I should also like to refer to the answer given by the Minister for Employment to the Employment Committee's question No. 258. However, the principle has not been clearly established in the Ministry of Industry. Thus, it has not been precisely provided for in the Order on Compensation for Wages, but the administration of the wage compensation scheme has, however, taken into account the fact that companies cannot receive compensation for the salary of specific employees affected by strikes or lockouts. This is because the company does not have wage costs for these employees when they are subject to strike or lockout. It is considered that the principle of neutrality can be clarified, and the legal basis is thus based on the tripartite agreement with the social partners, which has been translated into a series of dossiers and in a decree. It appears from the records that I then reproduce the wording: the Minister of Business is authorised to lay down detailed rules on compensation for wages related to covid-19 to private companies, including the establishment of criteria for obtaining compensation. The Ministry of Industry is updating the notice of the scheme so that the full principle of neutrality will apply in the future to companies having employees in job categories who are subject to legal professional conflict.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527150818	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527150820	Thank you. The question has been raised here, in view of the fact that it has been publicised that, as the Minister himself points out here, the government, without having the legal basis for it, has implemented a practice which means that companies that have been subject to a conflict have not been able to benefit from wage compensation schemes. And this actually means that there are a number of companies that have been forced to dismiss employees. I should just like to remind the Minister, for the sake of order, that wage compensation schemes have been introduced, at least on the part of the Left, to hold hands under Danish jobs, not to become part of a possible conflict in the labour market. But, of course, I am glad, having discovered that the government now recognizes that a mistake has been made and that there has been no legal basis for claiming that companies involved in a conflict could not benefit from wage compensation schemes. I just have to ask: what is the Minister's future legal basis based on? Because I understand that the Minister will make it clear that these companies will not be able to participate in the wage compensation schemes in the future. And I know from previous questions to the Minister for Employment that these are in the order of 600 companies, that is to say 600 companies, which may have failed to apply because the government has wrongly and without a legal basis claimed that they could not get a share in the wage compensation schemes. So what is the legal basis on which the Minister now hangs a future new decree in the legal framework that exists? Where is it in the trialogue agreement, in the file, in the law adopted, in the decree issued by the Minister that companies involved in a conflict cannot participate in wage compensation schemes?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527151040	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527151041	First of all, I would like to say that we share the experience that the aid packages, in particular the wage compensation scheme, are there to hold hands under many thousands of Danish employees. Fortunately, they do too; they help companies and they help a great many employees. As I said, in relation to the legal basis, a tripartite agreement has been concluded between the parties and, on the one hand, a number of documents have subsequently been published and, on the other hand, a notice has been issued. And Act 117 of 25 March states that the Minister of Industry is authorised to lay down detailed rules, including the determination of wage compensation related to covid-19, including the establishment of criteria for obtaining compensation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527151131	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527151131-2	So that was not a very clear answer to what I asked. In fact, I am here with the announcement to which the Minister refers, and I must honestly admit that I cannot find any basis whatsoever for what the Minister claims, either in the record or in the order which the Minister, indeed, has been authorized to issue through the file. There is no basis. What the Minister is now proposing will be legislation with retroactive effect. For the Minister, they deprive some 600 companies which have not applied for compensation of wages because the government has given them the erroneous impression that they were not entitled to it. What is the legal basis for making legislation with retroactive effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527151219	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527151220	The decree to clarify the full principle of neutrality will, of course, be issued when it is ready, and then it will apply from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527151231	Thank you. Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527151237	Thank you. It's a pretty bizarre case we're witnessing. In any case, it has now been revealed that the Minister of Industry says that it is in connection with an act which is then based on the interpretation. What my question is about is that it is in this way that the Committee on Finance has produced a report in its form of work which suggests that material legislation should be of a non-burdened nature. Does the Minister agree with the interpretation put forward by a broad majority of the Committee on Finance when looking at the question on which the Minister is now based, namely the question of the labelling of the text?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527151326	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527151327	After all, we are constantly working to implement the agreements that are being made. Here, in concrete terms, we are talking about the tripartite agreement on compensation for wages and the understanding of that agreement, together with the general principle of neutrality that we acknowledge and which the State accepts. It has not been fully implemented in the notice that has been in force. That's what the government is planning to do now. It will then enter into force from that announcement works, and I expect that will be quite soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527151401	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527151402	Well, I just don't understand the answer. For it says in what the Committee on Finance has written that it envisages that material legislation should be of a non-burdened nature. And that is exactly what the Minister is asking for by changing the announcement now, if I understand what is being done about it, namely that we want to ensure that there are companies that are not given the opportunity to receive compensation for wages.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527151429	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527151429-2	What we are proposing is to clarify the notice so that the full principle of neutrality is implemented by means of a decree. This will require an amendment to the notice, which is being prepared. And with the introduction, the full principle of neutrality will also apply to the wage compensation scheme in the future for the companies that are to seek, in addition, there will be an amendment to the regulation which implements the extension of the scheme so that it goes from three months to four months.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527151503	Thank you, and then it's Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527151504	But this is double bad, I would say: first, the government acts without a legal basis. The Minister is now standing here and saying that a new decree will be made, which will inevitably be retroactive. That is quite right, as Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen says that when you legislate retroactively, there are a number of questions of legal certainty that need to be addressed. A good rule of thumb to stick to if you do not want to run into problems is to ensure that it is beneficial for those you legislate about. So what is the Minister's response to my claim that we are now going to legislate retroactively?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527151556	Yes, please. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527151557	I would like to start by saying that it is provided for in the notice that legal professional disputes concerning strike and lockout can be dealt with then in the administration of the arrangements. In other words, for employees who are no longer de facto in an employment relationship, no compensation can be obtained either. So the administrative basis is in place. Then I do not agree with the assessment that this will apply retroactively. The notice, when issued with the full principle of neutrality, will apply to applications received after the new notice and thus will not have effect on applications received during the first period.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527151635	Thank you. The question is over. Troels Lund Poulsen who asks and Mrs Ulla Tørnæs as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527151648	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527151649	Thank you. Will the Minister state his political position that, in a reply to the Folketing on 23 March 2020, the Government will provide compensation for salaries, cf. Answers to Question No 1 26 to Bill No. L 141, has deliberately misled the Folketing, as well as explaining what this serious misdirection gives rise to?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527151708	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527151709	Thank you for the question. I would like to say at the outset that we have become aware that the scope of the principle of State neutrality in professional conflicts is not explicitly described in the wage compensation regulation. The Minister for Employment has also explained this, and the Ministry of Employment and the Ministry of Business has now been identified and handled. I shall deal with this in the following paragraphs. It is my understanding that the Minister for Employment, in his reply to the Employment Committee on 23 March 2020, referred to the general principle of neutrality, which states that the State must remain neutral in cases where there is a trade dispute between the employer and the worker. This principle of neutrality is a fundamental element of the Danish model. It has also been understood that the principle of neutrality applies to the tripartite agreement on the wage compensation scheme concluded with the social partners on 15 March 2020. However, it has become apparent that the principle of neutrality has not been fully implemented technically in the notice of the compensation scheme. We are dealing with this in the drafting of the new regulation, which includes, among other things, the extension of the scheme from 3 to 4 months, as mentioned earlier. It follows from the general rules in force in the wage compensation scheme that no compensation may be paid for employees who are subject to a lawful strike or lock-out, as their employment relationship has ceased in the course of a lawful strike or lock-out. Within the current notice, it is not possible to cut off companies for wage compensation for example. categories of posts, as is the case in other legislation in the Ministry of Employment. Thus, no full principle of neutrality has been provided for in the wage compensation scheme. However, we will deal with this in the future in the design of a new notice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527151907	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527151908	Thank you. After all, it is a pure confession; that you have deliberately misled the Folketing. It's a pretty serious case. But what is the Minister's position on the big discussion, which has then been between the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Employment, on the interpretation of these rules? It is a matter of course that the rules are largely laid down in employment law and the principle of neutrality, but that it is the Minister for Industry who is responsible for, if you may say so, the payment of the funds. That is why my question is very trivial: what exactly has now been done to arrive at the position that is being expressed here today? Is this something we have been aware of all along, or is it something which, in view of the fact that Mrs Ulla Tørnæs has asked questions about the matter, has been reluctantly reached?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527152003	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527152004	I would say that there has been a great focus both in the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Employment on the fact that the funds in the scheme here came to companies that really needed them as soon as possible. We have then become aware that the scope of the principle of State neutrality in professional conflicts is not explicitly described in the Order. That is what an update of the notice will take care of. We in the Ministry of Business and Industry, in dialogue with the Ministry of Employment, have ensured that it is clarified in a new notice, so that the principle of neutrality is implemented as intended. It is, of course, part of the ongoing dialogue between ministries when you implement a scheme, especially at such a time as we are now, when things are moving fast and where the overriding focus has been to get the money out to our Danish companies so that we can keep our hands under Danish jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527152056	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527152056-2	It's perfectly natural that things go fast, but it's not the first time we've asked about this. After all, I myself have been interested in the matter as far back as two months ago. The serious thing in this case is that I was informed there by the Minister for Employment, and our business rapporteur, Torsten Schack Pedersen, was informed by the Minister for Industry that it was administered against what has been in force until the announcement was made. That is, in fact, what is very serious, because it has been told that there were companies that could not receive compensation for wages.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527152130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527152130-2	I can deny that there should have been administration against what is applicable. The notice, which has been in force for the first round of applications, has clearly been, as I have replied, that you have to be in an employment relationship in order to obtain wage compensation. After that, it has been administered. But the relationship of the full principle of neutrality and job categories is something that will only be implemented with the new Order.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527152156	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527152159	Then we are back to my previous question, because I simply find it difficult to see where it is that the Minister of Industry can find a basis for changing the notice towards what is being said here, namely that even if you are not a part of the conflict that is taking place at the workplace, you should not be able to get compensation for wages for that type of job category. I really, really find it hard to see where it is that the legal basis for making a new announcement exists. So can the Minister not just say exactly where it is that there is a legal basis for making an announcement which deprives companies of the opportunity to become part of the compensation scheme, which is, of course, about holding hands under jobs in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527152253	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527152254	I think that it should be clarified that the full principle of neutrality is not about companies not being able to become part of it, but it is about job categories as a concept. The principle of neutrality in force is laid down in a number of laws in the Ministry of Employment, and the legal basis for adjusting the scheme is contained in the documents implementing the wage compensation scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527152325	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527152326	It does not do so at all, to the best of my knowledge, and I can assure the Minister that this matter is not over with this issue. That is my clear conviction. Not only has the government acted illegally by leaving the impression that you could not be included in the compensation schemes if you were involved in a labour dispute. We have then got the government's word for unfortunately was wrong. It's double bad, because it's going to be retroactive. Does the Minister not agree with me that, when legislators are retroactive, there are a number of legal concerns and that, when legislators are retroactive, this should be beneficial to the person concerned? And that is not the situation here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527152417	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527152418	I have to say that an amendment to the notice will not serve as an administrative basis with retroactive effect. This will be the administrative basis for the administration of the scheme by the Danish Business Authority from the date of entry into force of the Order.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527152433	Then it's mr. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527152435	This is going to be a little technical, but fortunately the Minister is well dressed for that. That is why I also think that it would be best to continue this discussion in a conciliation procedure in the Committee on Finance. Because what is quite crucial is whether there is any legal basis at all for doing this. And I would just like to say that I believe that the Minister must pay close attention to what rules the Committee on Finance has agreed in the past should apply when you do not have it in a law, but try to wipe it down through the notes on the text, which is what is happening here. But does the Minister agree that these are text notes that are based on?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527152516	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527152517	What is the legal assessment underlying my answer today is that the documents which give effect to the wage compensation scheme state that the Minister of Industry must lay down the criteria according to which the compensation funds can be allocated to pay compensation. I have read that out a few times. It is on this basis that the legal assessment in the Ministry of Business and in the government is that the new announcement can be made, and it is on that basis that we do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527152550	Thank you to the Minister for Business, and thank you to Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen and Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. The next question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. That is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène. S 1230 by Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527152606	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527152607	Does the Minister believe that the Folketing should legislate so that local selfgovernment should be able to determine more how the individual municipality organises itself, for example? takes into account Muslim holidays in the same way as it is currently arranged for Christian holidays, so that the municipal institutions keep closed around the celebration of the Muslim eid, so that pupils can get free for Friday prayer, so that the students will have the opportunity to pray along the way and during the teaching period, so that the classes are gender-separated, so that the classes are held by a teacher of the same sex as the pupils, so that the municipal staff do not have to shake hands with the opposite sex, so that Islam education is given a greater place in teaching, etc. etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527152708	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527152709	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by saying that, for me, it is crucial that we here in Denmark uphold the democratic values, the fundamental freedoms on which society is founded, including that girls and boys grow up with the same opportunities to participate in society. That is why we want to strengthen integration work, and here it is important that all the leading institutions in society make an effort, for example. also the municipal day care institutions, the municipal schools and the voluntary sports associations. It is our view that we should insist that young people meet each other and get to know each other, and we should not accept that we have ethnically separate public institutions. Nor are we afraid to legislate if it is necessary or beneficial, and only yesterday we presented some proposals on how we could ban religious weddings of minors and tighten the penalties for people who maintain others in a marriage against their will. In other areas, we consider that the defence of the values of democracy is strongest when they are enforced more locally by the municipalities, and we therefore have Christiansborg's side, for example. rejected the idea that we should design food policies for day-care institutions, although it has also been a discussion we have had in this Chamber. The crucial thing for us is that we agree across municipalities and states and civil societies that in Denmark, of course, one must cultivate one's faith freely, that religion is a private matter, but also that religion should not be governing society. I believe that there is a reasonable consensus on this. So, no, in the government's view, schools should not keep Muslim holidays in the same way as we celebrate Pentecost and Easter, we should not have gender-separated school classes in order to meet religious desires, such as. that a teacher does not want to shake hands, and the school should not be a church, just as the church should not be a school, let alone a school of Koran.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527152909	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527152911	Thank you. I would just like to make one comment on the proposal which came out a little last night. We look forward to seeing it, but we have not seen it yet, I must say to the Minister, even though it slipped out last night. But it will come as a real proposal at some point. I am asking this because, in answering one of my many questions in this Chamber, I acknowledge that, but that is how it is, namely, S 894 of 21 April, said: 'Young Danish Muslims practice their religion in many different ways, and they must of course be allowed to do so. Some pray five times a day, some wear a scarf, some drink alcohol, others do neither, and the freedom to practice one's religion as one wants is absolutely central to a democratic society. If the Minister feels this way, then it is obvious to the Minister that more power should be given to the municipalities so that these Muslim parallel societies can be better accommodated. It could, for example, be done. I think it would be possible to decide locally in Brøndby that there you can go with burka. I think this is a bad idea, but if you're going to follow the principle completely, I guess that's the way it is. In Brøndby there is a very large representation of immigrants who, according to the Minister's words, must be allowed to practice their religion as they please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527153022	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527153023	I think it is a key value for a democratic society that people can have a religion, that they can practice their religion, but also that it is within the framework of the law that exists in that country and in respect for the culture that exists in that country. It's self-evident. That is why I do not think it is a good idea, for example. to create a municipal permit to carry burka in Brøndby. Firstly, because I think it is a resolution that belongs in this Chamber, but also because it is contrary to the values of democracy for me and the government to cover one gender in public.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527153101	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527153102	I fully agree with that, and we have legislated on it in this Chamber. That is why I am referring to this issue, because it would not be possible to legislate in this Chamber, but it would not be applied locally. I think it was very sensible for it to remain here and for it to be decided by us, because of course we should not accept that. After all, the Minister has strong positions, and I think that is just a good thing; we need that in various areas. But when it comes to real legislation, the Minister does not want to be in it anymore, and that is what annoys me so much. For example: the Minister does not wish to legislate against gender-separated swimming pools. After all, it is also a culture to which we would only give access in Denmark, which we would not otherwise acknowledge. It needs to be resolved locally, the Minister thinks. For example: The Social Democrats in Hvidovre, in other words the Minister's party colleagues, have voted in favour of gender-separated swimming.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527153149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527153150	I believe that, in general terms, if you have a society in which the population has the same culture, very much the same religion, the same language, that is, culturally a very homogeneous population, then there is no need for much political regulation, that is, legislation. But in recent years Denmark has developed into a country where there are people with different religions, with roots in different countries and also parts of the world that are far away from Denmark. And it has then forced the Folketing to take a step forward in a number of areas, for example. About the cover ban, and legislate. However, I fully admit that the time we are in is a time that will require more political regulation because of immigration. Then we need to figure out how much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527153236	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527153238	I'd rather be free, too. That goes without saying. But there is also something called the law of necessity, and there is also something that says that action must be taken before it goes wrong. This has been very much my principle, also in relation to the entire legislation on foreigners, in relation to the fact that we were late and now we are standing where we are. But I just have to say that yes, one should be allowed to practise one's religion, but it should not hurt our society, and it does, for example, when one does. in Hvidovre Municipality provides financial support for swimming for immigrant women. Social democracy and the SF voted very disappointingly to give support. Of course, the Danish People's Party voted against it, because we think it should be the same for everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527153321	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527153322	Well, I've taken part in that debate before, also that you have a guarantee that there's a female lifeguard if your girl goes swimming or that the windows are covered. It is, I think, a step back from our own values, and the only thing that is happening is that there are other values that I do not regard as democratic, that are allowed to take a step forward and that are subversive to the society in which we live. That is why I fully admit that, because of immigration, in other words because there are more people coming here with other cultures, politicians will have to have a little less income tax and a little more value policy. And there are always specific individual cases of prayer calling, swimming halls and we have to discuss it from time to time. We have no fundamental view that the Folketing should not legislate, but we have the view that we should not centralise decisions that do not need to be centralised.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527153409	Thank you. That was the last answer to that question. Then we move on to the next question. 1231 The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration is also represented by Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527153417	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527153418	Thank you. Does the Minister consider a more and more divided Danish society to be a success, since more and more municipalities are taking more and more religious consideration of Muslim special requirements and the minister does not want to legislate against it again?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527153432	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527153433	I do not regard socially divided societies as in any way a success; the Social Democratic Party has also fought against this for nearly 150 years. Nor do we regard ethnically divided societies as a success. We must be reasonably firm on our fundamental values of democracy and equality, and we are therefore opposed to social and ethnic separation, and we do not want parallel societies in Denmark, where we isolate ourselves from each other in religious and cultural enclaves. We work for a society where you live and live together. We therefore continue the work of breaking down parallel societies in the wake of the major political agreements reached before the parliamentary elections and of which the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party are part. These are very important political agreements and we are not finished with that area at all yet. In our opinion, everyone must also grow up with equal opportunities and the freedom to decide for themselves how they want to live their lives, including who they want to be friends with, whether they want to take an education, whether they want to look for a job, who they want to marry, and whether they want to divorce. And it is also in line with yesterday's presentation of proposals to put an end to forced marriages. Nor are we afraid to legislate on absenteeism at school. We have also legislated to send children to crèches. We have also legislated on the ban on burka and much more. We want to legislate, but not necessarily about everything. Sometimes it is better that local politicians make decisions and help to establish the Danish values in local communities. Many times it seems much stronger than being written into the legislation. The municipalities themselves can often ensure that there is no doubt that Denmark is based on democratic values such as freedom and equality. In this sense, I have great confidence in municipal politicians that is right and I am generally of the opinion that one really should be careful to centralise too many decisions. I recognise that it may be necessary sometimes, and it pains me when we do it sometimes. I'll push the green button myself, but I'd rather not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527153634	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527153636	In principle, it makes sense to have confidence in local self-government. But the Minister must also acknowledge that his own party colleagues in very many municipalities have a different attitude towards different areas of value policy, about a different culture than that expressed by the Minister here in the Folketing. These are the things I can't really reconcile. Because if you say that local self-government must be there, but that is what you mean and what you mean, and local self-government acts quite differently, then we are back where you want to legislate only when the problems are growing bigger and bigger than they are at present. Now, if I say due diligence, what does the Minister say? That we should wait until the problem grows over our heads? That's what I'm so terribly sorry about, so we don't get in here about the nettle's mess and say this isn't gonna work out, so we're gonna show some action, and we're gonna say it's not gonna work out. And then the local self-government must understand that when they do not understand the big problem that is actually in Denmark about value policy, about culture, and how we quietly or sometimes quietly and violently change Danish society, then we simply have to intervene just as we did in relation to the burka ban, where we will not allow any people to go covered in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527153755	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527153757	Timely care, they say. I actually hear that the questioner and I share some fundamental considerations, but that the questioner probably wants to intervene earlier from Christiansborg than we want from the government. I completely agree that this is a continuous discussion and we must keep it with each other. But when, for example, we get there. We have said that we do not want to legislate on what diet policy should be in Danish day care institutions, so it is of course from the perception that it must be able to deal with by the municipal councils themselves. It is also our view that the vast majority can do the same, and the discussions are often good when they are taken up locally; then we will put the principles in place. And it also has a value.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527153835	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527153837	Now I can see that the Minister for Culture is in the Chamber, and she is not going to be brought into this, but I can't help it anyway. For in Roskilde the Minister's own Social Democratic party colleague, then mayor and current Minister Joy Mogensen, in 2016 took the first spade for the local but Turkish anchored mosque with minarets. But she would not do the same the following year after the situation in Turkey had deteriorated. Isn't that exactly where the risk is? And isn't that exactly where you lack that due diligence? For you can come and regret, and I think there are many things regretted that a Parliament agreed to in 1983. But we've had some trouble with it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527153921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527153923	We are not opposed to mosques in Denmark. We think this is a perfectly natural part of the fact that there are Muslims in Denmark as well. Now I live in Albertslund, and when I handed my children in day care when they went to day care, there was a small sign in the wind prison from our food mother about what food policy was in Albertslund Municipality. And that was after there had been a discussion in the municipal council and in the local newspaper about what you really do about many children not eating pork, and then we just drop pork completely, or do we change the kitchen according to the standards that are in the Muslim cuisine, or what do we do? It was actually a really healthy discussion, which was held locally in Albertslund and in many other municipalities, I know, in the Copenhagen West Region. A discussion that would not have been held if that discussion were to be held in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527154007	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527154009	Yes, but now the Minister is easily and elegantly bypassing one thing that I actually think is important: yes, we have mosques, but there was one who regretted having taken the first spade to that mosque because the conditions in Turkey developed as they did. Once again, with the very great acceptance and approval of local self-government, one can really be wrong and there may be a mistake that can hurt for a long time to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527154040	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527154041	It is true that when decisions can be taken at the individual town halls by the locally elected politicians, then stupid decisions will also be taken. It is a condition in democracy and it has consequences when stupid decisions are made. But we must also recognise from this that we do not always hit the dial completely clean in here either; we will also make stupid decisions, and when we do, the consequences for our country are all the greater. So I do not think it is possible to argue that we need to centralise decisions, because we are at risk of nasty decisions at local level. After all, this is a condition of local democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527154113	Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. The next question is also to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and that is what Mr. Nils Sjøberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527154126	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527154127	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that laws and regulations on Danish citizenship (right of birth) are properly managed when there is no possibility of applying for a derogation for the applicable rules, and considers that the application procedure is sufficiently flexible when there is no possibility of supplementing during the application process with additional documentation and/or supplementing its application with, for example: a Danish 3?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527154151	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527154152	Thank you for the question. I can also, I must admit, understand that there are some who wonder how an author who has published more than 36 children's and youth books in Danish is not considered to meet the requirement for documentation of Danish knowledge. I understand you just raise your eyebrows when you read about it. It is clear that I cannot, of course, go in and comment on the specific case... it does not surprise the author... but I am very open to discussing whether the rules are as they should be. I always am, of course. It is, of course, the case that the Ministry administers according to the guidelines agreed by a broad majority in the Folketing. It's the special thing in this area that it's the Folketing that grants citizenship, it's not the government. When the Ministry administers, it also includes the possibility of submitting cases to the Parliamentary Committee on the Rights of the Birth, including cases of exemption from the requirement for Danish knowledge. It is therefore the case that there is a possibility of exemption from the rules in force. It happens to many every year. A note was also drawn up a few years ago, which was sent to the Committee on Birth Rights, which carefully examines when cases of exemption from the requirement for Danish knowledge are submitted to the Committee. And I know that the officials are very careful to live up to this note. I can also say in this connection that the Ministry has not previously submitted cases concerning children's authors; there is therefore no practice in this area. The questioner has also asked why it is not possible during the application process to supplement with additional documentation. It is true that, as a starting point, an applicant must comply with all the relevant conditions and provide the necessary documentation when submitting his application. Having said that, however, the Committee on the Rights of the Child always has the opportunity to ask the Ministry to submit a specific case and, on that basis, to assess whether a derogation should be granted. It is also the case that individual members of the committee are asking for a case to be referred. In this connection, I have also noted that the Social Democrat author of citizenship has asked for this particular case to be submitted to the Folketing in order to assess whether a derogation should be granted. Of course, I will ensure that the matter is passed on as soon as possible so that you can assess whether or not to grant a derogation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527154359	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527154400	Thank you so much. I spoke to the Social Democrat author of citizenship last night and wrote back and forth so that I can announce that it will be included in the Committee on the Rights of the Child. But that does not change the principle of the matter because, as the Minister rightly points out, this is one of the issues here. on the author Annette Herzog, who was born and raised in East Germany but who came to Denmark 29 years ago. She has written 39 children's and youth books in Danish and is Danish-German interpreter. In 2017, she applied for Danish citizenship while receiving the Ministry of Education's language prize. She did not meet the requirements, had not taken Danish 3 which corresponds to the 9th grade. She sought exemption, did not get a clear answer, offered to take Danish 3 along the way and was told that it does not do for habit, as she says. Annette Herzog's case, however, is not unique. It is an example of a system in which it is stated that there may be derogations, but where it is really very difficult to obtain. It is an expression of long times when the reasons for the refusal should be clear: Has she taken Danish 3 or has she not taken Danish 3? But it took three years to figure out how to say no, in concrete terms. Therefore: Does the Minister think that you should be able to obtain an exemption for Danish 3 if you have many years of professional experience with the Danish language such as. a writer or a translator, specifically?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527154524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527154525	I would like to start by saying that the processing time in this area is falling and falling, and it has done so here under corona, and that is good because they have been too long. I recognise that from the bottom of my heart. It is not the government that can grant an exemption here, it is the Folketing. And what I'm trying to do as a minister is to make sure that the cases that the Danish Parliament would like to have transmitted are, of course, transmitted here in an old document from 2018 • all the different examples of how a case can be transferred. But there are always individual examples which we have not taken into account, and that is why you can always write to a member of the committee, and then you can make a concrete assessment of the individual case and assess whether a derogation should be granted. That's what's gonna happen in this case, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527154612	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527154613	Thank you. The committee would be happy to do the same in this matter. In another case, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration makes a mistake, the error is recognised, but the applicant cannot change the case without having to apply completely. All people can make mistakes, and this is also happening to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration, but this leads me to ask the Minister whether the Minister does not think that, if mistakes are made, it must be the responsibility of the Ministry to correct this rather than to demand that the citizen make his application for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527154643	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527154644	It is always a good principle that if someone makes mistakes, they must sweep up after themselves. I do not know exactly what the honourable Member is referring to, so I dare not comment on the specific case. But I can just say that there are thousands of cases going through this office every year, and of course mistakes are made. I know that they are really making every effort to do this as well as possible, because it is people's citizenship that is at stake. After all, we have some pretty tight rules in this area, and then we have the possibility of exemption as a valve, and there is a great responsibility on the Parliament's Committee on the Rights of Citizens to administer it in an objective way. My impression is that the committee is working quite well at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527154723	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527154724	It should not be necessary to send the cases to the Committee on the Rights of the Child in order to ask for a derogation once the matter has been dealt with in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration, so I am rather surprised that we continue to push it on to the fact that this is the task of the Committee on Integration. As the Minister is probably aware, there is an average processing time of Danish citizenship of over 20 months. Will the Minister consider it reasonable that, during the long wait, another test can be taken and presented to the Ministry, as in the case of Annette Herzog, if there is no prospect of meeting the language requirements on the basis of which they have been applied for, or if, for example, they are not able to meet the language requirements on the basis that they have been applied for? can change an error, instead of having to go through the entire application process, with the human and financial costs involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527154810	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527154812	I think it is quite natural that you can send in new information, new documentation for your case. But what I don't think we can ask the Ministry to do is put a case on the shelf and suspend it indefinitely, because then it'll grow fast. We need to insist that there is some flow in the procedure, particularly in order to avoid too long a time for processing. To that extent, why I should like to pass it on to the committee, I would like to say that it is because of the Constitution. We can't sit around in the ministry, 'cause it's...
ParlaMint-DK_20200527154853	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and to Mr. Nils Sjøberg. The next question is to the Minister for Culture, and that is what Mr. Kim Valentin from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527154903	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527154904	Thank you, Mr President. What does the Minister think of the then Minister for Culture calling DR and TV 2 in mid-March and asking them to send home most of the employees who didn't make news?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527154924	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527154925	After all, the questioner refers to the time in March when the Corona crisis seriously hit Europe and thus Denmark as well. There was a need to act quickly and take a series of drastic measures to prevent the spread of covid-19 in Denmark, and I think that everyone can remember the press meeting with the Prime Minister on 11 March on the decommissioning of Denmark. It was about everyone taking responsibility and showing community mind. And the government also announced on 11 March that all civil servants who did not perform critical functions would be sent home for two weeks by Friday 13 March at the latest. At the same time, all private employers were strongly urged to ensure that as many people as possible worked from home, walked away or vacationed. At the same time, the government announced that all indoor public cultural institutions would be closed by Friday 13 March 2020 at the latest for 2 weeks. However, public service providers were exempted as regards news provision and preparedness. All private providers, selfish institutions, voluntary organizations and religions were strongly urged to do the same. In connection with the announcement on 11 March, the Ministry of Culture also asked DR and TV 2 to send as many employees as possible home. It was important for the government to ensure that critical and independent news journalism continued to be practiced, and therefore DR's and TV 2's employees working on news dissemination and preparedness were exempted. However, the Ministry of Culture has not formally seen without further action the possibility of requiring DR and TV 2 to send employees home. However, there is nothing to prevent DR and TV 2 from being encouraged, in a situation such as this, to ensure that as many employees as possible work from home, leave or take a holiday, and that was the purpose of the Ministry of Culture's approach to the two stations. I understand that during the telephone conversations with DR and TV 2, the Ministry stated that it was an injunction. It's a mistake. It is regrettable and I would like to stress that, as I said, there was a need to react very quickly and that the ministries and authorities involved worked under great time pressure, but... Thank you! ) Sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527155144	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527155145	Thank you. I would have expected it to just be said: yes, it was a big mistake, we will never do that again, and we hope that we will never happen to others. I don't quite hear that coming from the Minister. I think this is pretty serious, and I guess I'm gonna have to be a little more sharp than I used to be in this field. And I can also hear that the Minister himself is aware of the seriousness of this. It was the case that most other media just continued to work in an ordinary way. Some new ways of working were then found: Some business practices were changed, journalists were sent home to work from the home front. And that sort of works really well. We're developing with the corona crisis we've come into. Therefore, it is quite serious that the Departmental Manager of the Ministry of Culture then called DR and TV 2 to interfere with their roster. Whether it was conscious or not, it is a breach of the arm's length principle, which we maintain quite strongly in all respects. There is, in fact, no legal basis for interfering in this kind of thing, because DR is an independent public company, I repeat: an independent public company. And you can't mix these things up. Can I ask the Minister of Culture today to take a clear stand against the fact that in March her department manager contacted DR and TV 2 to ask them to send selected employees home?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527155339	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527155340	Yeah, it was a mistake, and that's not how it was supposed to happen. There are several things in addition to the wording. For example: is also my understanding of what would have been right, that she had called the directors of the two television stations rather than the directors. And that is why I would now like to enter into a dialogue with the boards of DR and TV 2 on how to deal with force majeure situations properly in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527155410	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527155411	I am very pleased with that answer. Thank you. It is a little rhetorical to say whether it gives rise to a question to the Minister whether DR and TV 2 are regarded in the Ministry of Culture or in the government as state media, but I do not want to ask that question. I would say that I think there are many of us who are concerned that this arm's length principle is being quietly put out of effect. So what happens to the credibility of the media? What about critical questions? Is it a matter of concern to the Minister if there is an opinion in the Ministry of Culture that it is the Ministry's task to influence the composition of staff in independent companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527155454	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527155455	Yeah, if that's what happened. That was the reason for my slightly longer introduction of what kind of situation we were in. Because I am sure that the staff of the Ministry of Culture and, in particular, the person concerned are equally cursed by this. That is why I would also like to inform you that, as far as DR and TV 2 are concerned, we could have done another process which would have allowed them to do so politically. She could have done so by regulating DR's public service obligations through the public service contract, or the State could have called an extraordinary general meeting as sole owner through the Companies Act and TV 2's statutes. But the problem here is that the two instruments were not used, and that is why we need to find another way of dealing with it if we need to act quickly some other time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527155552	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527155553	Thank you, Minister. I would like to leave the slightly negative line of questions, because it does not really look like me to ask so negative, but to end with an open question that reaches a little forward instead of what is independent media? So I would like to ask the Minister: how does the Minister define these?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527155615	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527155616	This is a big question which may also take a little longer than I have here. But, overall, it is really the same thing that applies to the rest of the cultural area, that is, that we as a state can support, but that we should not govern. In other words, one can support good, free, independent journalism, but one should not control it, only support. That is a very general point.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527155644	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Kim Valentin. We move on to another question to the Minister for Culture, and that has been asked by Mrs Britt Baker from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527155700	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527155701	Thank you for that, and this follows on from the question raised just now by Kim Valentin: Does the Minister believe that there has been a legal basis for instructing DR and TV 2 when the then Departmental Secretary of the Ministry of Culture asked them to send the majority of their staff home in connection with the decommissioning of Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527155728	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527155729	As my previous answer also showed: No, I do not believe that there has been a legal basis for this in the way it was done. If this were to be done, DR's public service obligations should have been regulated through the public service contract, and the Companies Act and TV 2's statutes should have called an extraordinary general meeting, as the State is the sole owner. The problem is precisely that these two provisions were not used, and that is why I want to enter into a dialogue with the boards of DR and TV 2 on how we can deal with such a situation in the future. After all, it is important that we can act quickly, but also in a way that is legal. So it is a mistake and it is extremely regrettable, because it is of course important that we have free media. Therefore, it is also important for me to reiterate that news and preparedness were maintained and that the government did not go in and regulate exactly which programs DR and TV 2 would produce and broadcast or specific content. It was only announced that part of the staff would work from home for a period of time, and I have also seen with great pleasure that it has been possible to maintain a very large proportion, but under different production obligations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527155848	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527155848-2	Thank you. I would also like to sign for the answer given by the Minister, both now and also to Mr Seligman. Kim Valentin just now, namely that in such a situation here, of course, it must go through the boards. But I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister can inform the Danish Parliament of who has instructed the Head of Department to contact DR and TV 2.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527155911	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527155912	It followed from those days that things were going very fast, and that is why I did not actually have exactly who told her that this was how it had to be done. But, of course, I am responsible for what is going on in my ministry, and that is also why I am standing here and saying that it was a clear mistake, and that is why we must have found a way to act in such situations forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527155943	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527155943-2	I would also like to acknowledge that the Minister is doing and is also just calling for this, precisely because it is important that in future situations we do not make the same mistake again, and that the Minister then follows up on how it has come about, that the Head of Department gives such instructions to independent media. 'Cause we're gonna have a bill of lading that we've just been talking about here for two hours in a consultation, too, at that point. When I get a little worried, it is also because it has subsequently emerged that the reopening of DR and TV 2 should take place in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture, and I am in fact somewhat surprised. For why does the Ministry of Culture have to get in over the reopening of two large independent media?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160031	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160032	It is important to say that, if the words had fallen differently, it had not just been formulated as a pretext, as it was perceived, but just as an invitation had been completely identical with what has happened in relation to other independent companies, and that is also what I would like to say immediately. Until we make another possible construction, that's what's gonna be my remembering rule from this. However, in relation to the questioner's other questions about why the Ministry of Culture should be involved in the reopening, it is also very much about DR and TV 2 being some of the first to get more employees into the workplace. In this context, they also became some of the first to play their own part in the guidelines under which their employees were to work, as well as the sectoral dialogues we had with the rest of the cultural area later on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160133	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160133-2	I just wanted to say thank you to the Minister. I am, in fact, very pleased with the answer, and I would just like to ask the Minister once again to find out how it might be possible for the Head of Department to give this instruction, for which there was no legal basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160150	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160150-2	I'll come back with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160153	Thank you to Mrs Britt Baker and to the Minister for Culture. It is the same partner and partner that the Minister for Culture and Mrs Britt Baker will have the next question, Question No. 1242.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160205	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160206	What is the Minister's view that the ensembles and orchestras are not included in the reopening plan, and does the Minister agree that a chamber music or jazz concert can be equated with a theatre performance which can be held after the enlargement of phase 2?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160225	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160227	Thank you for the question. Let me start by stating that concerts with ensembles and orchestras for sitting audiences are in fact part of the reopening plan agreed by the government and the parties of the Folketing here on 20 May, which generally includes a large part of cultural life in Denmark. The following day, 21 May, the political agreement resulted in an announcement and a set of guidelines based on the reopening of cultural events with seated audiences. These guidelines show that up to 500 people can be allowed for events in theatres, cinemas and concerts with a sitting audience. It is therefore not what kind of cultural institution you are or what kind of cultural event you are holding. It is essential for us to be able, for example, to do something about it. ensembles and orchestras can hold a concert, is that the audience sits down and that the comprehensive anti-infectious requirements that apply are met and enforced. So I seem to agree with the questioner that this should be possible and that proper reopening implies that each institution takes responsibility for it. But I'm sure these institutions will be able to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160339	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160340	I am very pleased that we established this, because there is some uncertainty in the industry, especially among the orchestras, about whether they can hold concerts. I understand from the Minister for Culture that they are allowed to go with up to 500 audiences with proper distance between them and sitting. Of course, I am very, very happy about that. I would then like to hear the Minister's opinion on what to do in those situations where, for example, there may be 1,000 or 1,500 in a hall, but where the cultural institution or venue can only fill the hall by one third or half. Is the Minister prepared to compensate those venues?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160426	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160427	Right now, the whole focus of the Ministry of Culture has been to get these guidelines going, but we do have some different things to follow up on, among other things. at the rapporteur's meeting here on Friday. There I think it would be right to discuss whether there is anything further here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160447	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160448	After all, it is a fantastic séance that we have here today, where we can agree on everything on behalf of cultural life. I am delighted, of course, if we can find a common solution, because there are really some institutions, both concert halls and theatres, which are so happy that they have been allowed to get started again in making performances, but which of course are also deeply concerned about their economy, because they can only sell their tickets in part. So if the Minister is prepared for us to find reasonable partial compensation for this, then I am happy and will be very happy from here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160527	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160528	Well, I am fully aware of it and follow closely how this situation develops in cultural life. And I have come across the same question as the questioner, so I am looking into that, and I look forward to taking the further dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160542	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160544	I simply have no further questions. I just want to say thank you for a good dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160550	Thank you to Mrs Britt Baker. We will continue with the Minister for Culture, but this time with someone else asking, and that is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160559	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160600	Thank you. The question is: does the Minister believe that it is reasonable that the theatres continue not to know when the money from the aid package will enter their account and how will the Minister ensure that this happens as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160612	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160615	First of all, allow me to join the author of the question in welcoming the fact that the theatres can now also open and, hopefully, start to welcome their audience, but also to get the revenue from it. In the question it is not quite clear what aid package it is that the various theatres may have contacted the questioner about. The questioner may be able to elaborate on this. However, if it is about arrangements under the emergency pool, i.e. the political agreement of 18 April, then it is specifically aimed at public-oriented cultural institutions and the compensation scheme for wage and fixed costs. There are a little different answers, but I will try to review them quickly. The emergency pool's objective 1 on needy cultural institutions and objective 3 on production costs relevant to theatres opened for applications on Wednesday 20 May. If a theatre has liquidity problems, the theatre can automatically bring forward the payment of a quarterly grant via a request to Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen (Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen) and, if necessary, the grant for the whole year can be brought forward. Accelerate payment of operating grants has just been launched to ensure that there are means to deal with the acute liquidity challenges faced by some cultural institutions. Schemes for wage and fixed costs for theatres receiving less than 50 per cent. in public support for ordinary operating costs, has long been open and can be sought through the Danish Business Authority. For theaters who receive 50%. or more in public support, the schemes are expected to open in this or next week, and they can then be sought via Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen. Generally speaking, for compensation schemes for wages and fixed costs, they cross all ministerial areas and, as they should embrace so widely, it has also proved to be a very time-consuming process. But I really understand that there is impatience, and I hope that with these answers I have provided some ways of getting some money right now. And then these schemes come into operation this week or next week.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160815	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160816	Thank you. Yes, I also hope that the answer given by the Minister for Culture in this Chamber today may help to ensure that there are at least a little fewer people walking around and frustrated out there. I can tell you that, among other things. The theatre director of Odense Theatre said earlier that he had been assured that the theatre would receive a package of help, but also that he was like walking around thinking: How big will it be? When's the money coming into the account? We also know that, although more has fortunately been opened up, revenue will still be lacking by the fact that there are not so many people sitting in the theatres right now. This also means that there is a risk that there will still be a gap to be covered. The minister said that this week or next week you would get the last thing in place so you could start making some payments. Could the Minister clarify a little more: is this something that you also send out to the industry so that they are aware of how they are going to handle this task?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527160921	My view is that all cultural institutions follow very closely on the Ministry of Culture's website... something that they can take along with them, also afterwards... and I will, of course, ensure that it is communicated there, but also through the professional organisations that organise a great many of these institutions. For the characteristics of our aid packages in the area of the Ministry of Culture are that they are stretched out very far, also for a great many of them longer than the institutions to which we normally grant operating subsidies. So, unfortunately, we do not know all the institutions that can get help, but it is important that we get to them, and I will do that in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527161000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527161001	But we also know very well that merely keeping the overview for ourselves, who are sitting here in the Danish Parliament, I think that where to apply, to whom to make the application, etc., is almost a task in itself. It could be an appeal for perhaps also helping cultural institutions to clarify what they really have and where they can go. I know that we have done so in the social field to help social institutions; we have produced almost some kind of guidance. Is that something the Minister of Culture might be able to take the initiative on?
ParlaMint-DK_20200527161033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527161034	In the area of the Ministry of Culture we have simply made an overview of which aid packages could be considered if you are such a cultural institution, so that as an institution you can see for yourself whether you fit in there or there, and if you do not fit in there, you might fit in somewhere else. In addition, we have created a coronahotline. I know that in the first hectic days a lot of people didn't think you could get enough answers. But now the political agreements are in place, so with regard to the aid packages, I would urge you to call there otherwise for specific individual guidance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527161109	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527161110	Yes, because in addition to the fact that there are theatres and so on, even from my local area, I can say that there are mayors who write because they have been contacted by their local cultural institutions. So there is a task at all to spread it out, so we make sure that they are • whether it is mayors who sit around the country or, for that matter, the cultural institutions themselves are aware of how they can get close to these aid packages.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527161141	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527161141-2	I think that my mailbox looks a lot like the questioner's, and we are doing everything we can to get the answer so that it gets as wide as possible. For example, I have. We also have a very good cooperation with these trade organisations and artists' organisations, because the whole of cultural life is an ecosystem in which one aid often helps the other. And especially now that the reopening is approaching. So I totally agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527161208	Thank you, Mrs Matthiesen, and thank you to the Minister for Culture. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200527161218	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday, 28 May 2020, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
