ParlaMint-DK_20201006115858	Your Majesty and Royal Highnesses. For 170 years, only war and corona have been able to disrupt freedom and the rule of the people in Denmark. I have participated in the opening of the Danish Parliament 40 times only surpassed by Her Majesty and this is the 10th time I open the parliamentary year, but never under such circumstances. Normal democratic debates and decision-making processes have been set aside. The government, with the consent of the Danish Parliament, has taken over to an unprecedented degree. My wish for the new year is for us to learn to take rapid decisions without democratic deficit, without prejudice to logic and predictability, and with clarity about what is expertise and what is political choice. We have taken our own medicine in this Chamber and followed our own restrictions. We have improvised, wandered around the Walking Hall and have gone out and in ten at a time so as not to be too many in the Chamber when we had to vote. And neither today are we unfettered by the pandemic, but we must demand that we meet and start work on the first Tuesday in October and hear the Prime Minister's statement on the general position of the kingdom and the measures envisaged by the government. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament, it is I who, as the old-age president, that is, not the oldest, but the longest sitting, must open the thing and get it set. That is to say, I shall be in charge of the election of the Bureau and matters secretaries.
ParlaMint-DK_20201006120114	President. - The debate is closed. Henrik Dam Kristensen. If no one requests a vote, I shall look at Mr Seligman's report. Henrik Dam Kristensen as elected. He's chosen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201006120128	For the first Vice-President, the Left Group has appointed Mrs Karen Ellemann. By common understanding between the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left, which has an equal number of members, the appointment of the second and third vice-president has taken place without drawing lots. For the second Vice-President, the Danish People's Party has appointed Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. For the third Vice-President, the Radical Left Group has appointed Mr. Jens Roh. And to the fourth Vice-President, the Socialist People's Party has appointed Mrs Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20201006120206	According to the electoral federations and the group's recommendation, the following members have been elected: Mrs Annette Lind (S), Mr. Christian Juhl (EL), Mr. Erling Bonnesen (V) and Mr. Bent Bøgsted (DF). This is the way things are set, and I would ask the President to take his chair.
ParlaMint-DK_20201006120251	I would like to start by thanking my colleagues for the election of the President of the Folketing. To be allowed to hold this post, I consider it a great honour, and I will do my best to live up to trust. My point of reference will be to ensure that the legislative work is carried out in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, and in my chair I will endeavour to give everyone proper and fair treatment. I am sure that we share a common hope that we must have more normal conditions in Danish society, yes, throughout the world. Unfortunately, we are still stuck in the pandemic's grip. Much is different, even in a day like today. The Corona epidemic has affected much of Parliament's work in the spring, and there is hardly any doubt that the last parliamentary year will sign into history as quite unusual. When the crisis came to an end in the spring, there was agreement in the Things that we should keep the legislative work and the parliamentary functions going. It was crucial for Danish society that the people's rule worked and could also act under extraordinary conditions. If it is again necessary to speed up the legislative process and adapt the framework to the parliamentary work, then we have experience from the spring that we can benefit from. That's a pretty good starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20201006120441	It is my pleasure to welcome our guests today. Welcome to Her Majesty the Queen, to Hans Royal Highness the Crown Prince, to Her Royal Highness the Crown Princess and to Her Royal Highness Princess Benedikte. A special welcome to the President of the Supreme Court. It is a pity that a great many of our regular guests have not been able to attend this opening. Therefore, I would also like to take this opportunity to send the Danish Parliament's greetings to the self-government authorities in Greenland and to the Home Government authorities in the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20201006120523	Then I will give the floor to the Prime Minister so that, under the Constitution, she can give an account of the general position of the Kingdom and the measures that the Government intends to implement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201006120530	They say crises show what kind of material you're made of. Spring 2020 should be Denmark's test of strength: a common enemy, a global pandemic. And what substance: community, community mind, action. Denmark showed everything we can. We were reminded of why we are vulnerable when we are alone and remembered how strong we are when we stand together. We could have accepted that the disease took thousands of lives, but in Denmark a virus should not determine whether the health care system succumbs to whether it kills thousands. We do not allow a virus to destroy confidence in our social model and hence the foundations of our economy. That was true in the spring, and that is true now. After the summer recession, the corona has returned. It was expected that the virus would recover, but it has happened faster than we had hoped. In the last three weeks, on average, we have had around 450 new infected people a day. Yesterday we had 120 hospitalized, the highest number since May. So far, we have managed to slow down the increase before it is too well grasped and, unfortunately, new restrictions have again been necessary. That is how it is in many countries. We see throughout Europe that the virus is spreading rapidly again. There is much evidence that Denmark, as the situation is right now, is in control of the epidemic. This is not least because we are one of the countries in the world that tests the most. However, the health authorities' assessment is that the figures are too high now that winter is on the way. That is why we need everyone's efforts again. Soon, as promised, the government will present an early warning system that gives more predictability about what we do when the infection rises. The so-called dance with corona becomes long, it becomes hard, and it is exhausting: older people who experience loneliness; infected people who become afraid of their health; employees who rightly fear the job; entrepreneurs who fight for their life's work; a cultural life that craves the audience. And most people miss life as it was, and as it should be again... spontaneity, proximity, hugs and so do I myself. But the virus should not be allowed to win this time either, because what does it do to a society, a community, what does it do to people if the hell is just allowed to take the last, those who are still weak? We must never think that way; it must never be that way in Denmark. We have proved that we can both safeguard individual human lives and, at the same time, be one of the countries in Europe whose economy seems to be best able to cope with the crisis. Because we shut down the infection, we could unlock society quickly. Health and economics are not one another's opposites, on the contrary, and security is the foundation for prosperity. Everyone in Denmark has a part in our common results, and although it is difficult, and even though the infection again offers us defiance, I have never been more optimistic on Denmark's behalf. For the corona is like a magnifying glass on our lives, on our society. We have been able to see that politics makes a difference. Now we know how much we can do when we want to, when we gather our strength. That is what we need to get Denmark out of the crisis and into the future. In the spring, gross domestic product fell by almost 7%. However, the financial crisis was rooted in fundamental imbalances in the economy, decades of deregulation, overuse and blind faith in market forces. This crisis is different, and our resistance as a society is greater. Timely care, a diligent population and the reforms agreed here in the Danish Parliament have created a healthy Danish economy with low public debt, high credit rating, skilled employees and strong companies. That is why we in the Danish Parliament were able to adopt the largest aid packages in Danish history. Add tripartite agreements with employees and employers, sectoral partnerships with industry that came into being, almost faster than we could propose them ourselves. Looking back, what we did together will stand as a star moment for Danish cooperation and democracy. We were hit hard, we dealt with it quickly and we have done much better than we could have feared, both in terms of health and economics. For trade unions, employers' organisations, companies, voluntary Denmark, cultural institutions, public authorities, all of you who help Denmark through this: Thank you. And thank you, not least, to you here in the Assembly Hall. I have deep respect for the fact that all parties were ready when Denmark wavered for a while. You were all there as leaders, as colleagues and as people. Tactics were set aside, and Denmark was set in front. By our joint efforts across interests, Danish economy is now a better place than many other countries, but many are affected, including at home. We have expanded and extended the possibilities of obtaining daily allowances, strengthened the safety net in a difficult time. It is the Danish road and a clear political choice. We have solidarity. Since February, unemployment has increased by 34,000 people. Behind every bill of fire is a human and a family. It is the couple in Towerby, where both were employed at or around the airport, who are now both without a job: you cannot pay your bills, even if we have sound government finances. And we cannot remove the uncertainty. It will continue, both for employees and for companies, but for a social democratic government it is and will always be a key task to combat unemployment. It also requires that we get all the export companies through well. Almost 800,000 Danish jobs are directly or indirectly dependent on exports. Denmark is a trading nation. Therefore, on top of the comprehensive aid packages, the government proposes to pursue an expansive fiscal policy in 2021 and in the years to come. We can only bring Denmark forward by investing. And it is not a law of nature that a crisis should be paid for by those people who already have an uncertain link with the labour market. It is not necessary for the welfare society to stand up for. And it is not foresight to leave this bill in the dorm room in the form of youth unemployment, as we have seen before, not least in the 1980s. We have to solve this crisis differently. We must form, we must train and we must develop so that young people and more experienced people can draw new life paths, get a new job if the old one disappears, and train for the future. I am grateful that we have drawn up a tripartite agreement on apprentices, which holds hands under Danish apprenticeships and also makes it possible for companies in difficulty to recruit more apprentices in practical training and to hold on to any pupils you may have. Keep doing that, because we're gonna need more skilled people in the future. I am proud that we have provided funds to create 5,000 additional study places in higher education, so that there is better room for the thousands of young people who have had to drop the Sabbath journey into the world but who can instead pack the bag and start studying. And I am so glad that a majority in this Parliament is now behind the fact that people who do not have an education that is unskilled can now be allowed to learn something new for a higher allowance, become skilled, get paper on what they might already be able to do. I would like to encourage as many unemployed people as possible to start an education, although I know that some of you do not have the best experience from when you went to school. Keep going anyway! Education is often a prerequisite for opening new doors in life. Land parts and industries are affected differently. Some have come back to the level, hairdressers, clothing stores; for others it has actually gone ahead, construction markets, supermarkets and online commerce. But for you in the experience economy, the travel industry, the restaurants, the hotels, the bars, our cultural life, the sports events, this is a tough time. Something's caused by restrictions, other than the fact that the whole world is hit by corona. No one can adapt in such a short time, and that is why we set in with emergency relief. In the longer term, however, many companies will have to change the way they operate. On the financial bill, we have set aside more than 9 billion. kr. only for the rebooting and handling of corona. We expect Denmark to receive approximately the same amount from the European Recovery Fund. We need this to boost the development of the areas on which Denmark must live in the future. Last week we entered into a strategic green partnership with India. Although India is large, our exports to the country are small. On the other hand, the possibilities are enormous. If we get the same export success as in China, we can double the exports of goods to India, which will amount to just under 4 billion. kr. As Prime Minister Modi of India said when I spoke to him: India has the size, Denmark has the solutions. Imagine, of all countries around the world, India has chosen us, Denmark, as the first and so far the only country with which they have entered into a green strategic cooperation agreement. This shows what Denmark and our companies can do. The agreement is good for the climate, it is good for Danish jobs, it is good for Denmark's position in the world community, and it shows that we should not wait for the time after corona. Now is the time for us to make the necessary decisions, and we must invest in technology. In fact, a not insignificant part of Danish industrial companies themselves experience that they have come out of this crisis strengthened, and this is largely due to the fact that the companies in question have had a digital lead, that they are out on the world market before competitors. To put it bluntly: The web shop works, production continues, jobs are maintained in Denmark. And digitalisation has gone from being one competitive parameter among many to being able to determine in this time whether a company can survive. Also as a society, we were quick to adjust and use Denmark's digital leadership position. The patient could see the doctor via video, and all the children and all the young people could be taught online. We need to move forward, and that is why Denmark needs a new digitalisation strategy. We are starting this work with the ambition that Denmark should continue to be a digital showcase for the rest of the world. Instead of trying to restore the past, it is our job here to power the future. Last month I visited Motalavej with the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Housing. It is a residential area in Korsør, which for too long has been marked by unrest. We met with different residents and with the housing association. A woman took the floor, and unfortunately I didn't get her name. She had a minority background in some way, and she was deeply outraged. Why? Yeah, because she thinks the rules are too loose. Why don't you just take the cash from the guys who're in trouble? she asked. I can understand the proposal and the frustration. Too many places have been allowed to take root insecurity. Should we accept that there are places in Denmark where ordinary people are afraid to live and be, where residents are insecure by coming home late from work at night or worried about sending their children down to play? No way. We can change it and we need to change it. But that requires us to talk about things as they are and, of course, to get the nuances with them. Many of you who have your roots outside Denmark today take a great deal of responsibility and make a great effort: entrepreneurs, cleaning assistants, designers, managers, sports stars, sosus, musicians, engineers, craftsmen, educators, nurses, doctors, bus drivers. I will be proud when I see young people, especially many young girls, who are doing well in education. It is strong; you are a model and a frontguard for an entire generation. Many of you are in the midst of a battle of values, a struggle for freedom to break free from the outdated and stunted culture that unfortunately prevails in too many circles. Where the women's fight at home took place in public in the 1970s with protest marches on the streets and TV shows, your fight is going on in secret, and that makes your fight harder than ours. That is why we need everyone to back up; that is also true of all resident imams. To all of you who want Denmark, I would say: hold on to it. And to all of you young men who, through social media, distance themselves from violence on top of the killing in Brønshøj last week, I would say: Keep doing that, distance yourself from the wrong, and take responsibility for what is right. I myself am rounded up by the struggle for social justice, for a society with opportunities for everyone, not only the chances of the few, and everyone here knows that there is a huge difference between growing up in Gellerup and in Gentofte. Growing up conditions are too unevenly distributed, unfortunately. However, I have no understanding that that difference can put itself in harassment of others, assaulting young people or any other form of brutal behavior. We have to hold on to the fact that people, regardless of their background, are born with a will. How we manage our lives is essentially our own responsibility, and without generalising and without cutting everyone apart, we have to relate to reality, to facts and to raw statistics. Every fifth man with a non-Western background who was born in 1997 had violated the penal code before he reached the age of 21 years. That is not all, it is certainly not all, but it is obviously far too many. It is young men who take the freedom of others, who steal the future of children, who break down prison officers and leave a long trail of insecurity. This is nothing new, and it is, in fact, the biggest problem, because this has been going on for far too many years. There are girls who are called derogatory because they are Danish, or girls who are subjected to social control because they have become Danish. There's a sausage truck in Brønshøj, which is being attacked with cannon strikes because pork is being sold. Basically, we should not accept that behaviour, that behaviour and that mentality, because it affects not only the victims. It also puts an entire population group or a whole residential area in stalls all of you who struggle daily with the many prejudices caused by the wrong behavior of others. The residential areas that today are described as ghettos or exposed residential areas were built to create more freedom, more quality of life for ordinary people • people who wanted to leave town for fresh air and a safe environment. This was the case for many years, but far too many places are the opposite. In the particularly vulnerable residential areas, 1 per cent commit. of the residents of almost half of the crime rate, given the seriousness of crime. And in this way we are against them, not whites against browns or young people against the elderly or Copenhagen against the province or all sorts of other false contradictions, but between all of us who want security, decency, democracy, equality, freedom on the one hand, and those who want the opposite on the other. Where crime gets hold of, the police have to strike down, and we propose that it be done more consistently. As it is today, the police can prohibit individuals from entering specific areas, for example. A gang member. That's fine, but what if the rest of the group is still gone? That is why we propose that in future the police should be able to impose a genuine residence ban on all persons in certain places for a limited period of time. It may be in the parking lot in the residential area, where there is today unrest and crime, at the S-train station, where groups of young boys and men gather and create insecurity. Here we say: You must not be here, for no one else in our country should be afraid to walk the streets, and you should not be allowed to take the freedom of other people. If the residence ban is not complied with, it is our proposal that the penalty should be clear, it must be consistent and it must be felt: the first time a fine of 10,000 kroner is imposed. And if you owe it to the government it can be unpaid bills because you have committed crime in the past we suggest a cash settlement. Then the police must be able to take the duvets, the watches, the gold necklaces, the cell phones, or whatever else you might have of value, and immediately. The second time, we're talking 30 days in prison. We give the police more muscle, and at the same time we send a clear signal to the young people and to their parents... a message that cannot be misunderstood. Gang members and other criminals must have taken their status symbols immediately, the madness driver must have taken his car. For the status symbols are those used today to recruit little brothers. We're gonna break that food chain. We'd rather give the little brother a leisure job than a criminal big brother to look up to. And we're not gonna stop here. Today, far too long is taken from a criminal resident being convicted of an offence and from his or her place of residence. That's one of the problems on Motalavej. In some cases, it takes several years because the matter of the postponement can only be dealt with after the offence itself has been dealt with in the criminal justice system. We're gonna change that. In future, it must be possible to remove criminal residents from their apartment immediately after they are convicted of an offence. Finally, there is violence in the nightlife. Here we propose that people who commit violence and get a sentence should be completely excluded. It is not reasonable for the young boy or girl who is beaten down in front of a bar or discotheque to be able to meet the very same assailant in the same queue a few weeks later. In other words, there must be consistency, a short process. Because in Denmark it is our responsibility that everyone can be safe, whether it is in front of a disco, in the residential area or at the train station. And if we stop this crime and the subversive behaviour that we see far too many places, then there can finally be room for something preventative and to build on the good that, after all, is still the most. Unfortunately, many of the problems I am talking about here and which we are dealing with today go back a long way. Too many came, too many were lost, for too long it was allowed to continue. The policy of foreigners in the past was a mistake. It's as simple as that. That is why we need to continue a strict immigration policy in Denmark, but we need to do more than that. We have a European asylum system that has actually collapsed. Let us be honest with each other: today the possibility of asylum often depends on whether you can pay a smuggler and whether you are willing to risk your life in a crowded rubber boat. The Mediterranean has become a cemetery and several southern European coasts are in some form of almost permanent martial law. There are no people fleeing for fun, but right now we are abandoning both those who are on the run with the intervention of the smugglers and those who are left behind and who may be in the greatest need of help. That is why we need to help in the neighbourhoods. We will deal with asylum cases away from Denmark, in third countries, which can provide security to those in need of protection. It is for the government to see the only real and long-term solution. Many have said that it is quite unrealistic that this cannot be done, but here too it is the case that we decide for ourselves: do we give up in advance or do we have to translate words into action? In the parliamentary assembly we are opening today, the government will table a legislative proposal which will allow us to transfer asylum seekers to countries outside Europe and thus prepare Denmark for a new asylum system. I hope this is a task that we can stand together on. On the whole, the strong communities that bear us are the longest. This is true in Europe, and it is true in the Kingdom. Many in the world admire our construction: three countries • a kingdom. And global interest in the Arctic is increasing. We see an increasingly aggressive behavior from Russia that is problematic. We see an increasing American interest in ever-closer cooperation in and around the Arctic that is obviously positive. The United States is our most important ally and cooperation between the United States and Europe should be increased wherever possible, because we are the global axis fighting for freedom, democracy and peace in the Arctic and in the rest of the world. The government will present legislation on investment screening and the 5G network. Technology and security policy are becoming more and more common, and that is why we need even closer cooperation within the Commonwealth on foreign and security policy issues linked to the new reality of the Arctic and the North Atlantic. We must safeguard our common security. We must also safeguard the welfare society that we have created in Denmark for generations, a secure community where we take care of each other. With the understanding paper, we have agreed that when more children and more older people arrive, the money must follow. We are now proposing that the whole parliament should commit itself to this and that we should adopt a welfare law, so that we can, as it were, put a bottom under the welfare society. The alternative to that is savings... it doesn't hold up welfare. Over the last few decades, reforms have all too often led to deterioration. The early retirement rate is one example. We want to go the opposite way with a new right to early retirement for those who have been longest in the labour market, often worn out in hard jobs. Everyone deserves a dignified retreat. We are discussing this right now with the Danish Parliament's parties. I hope for an agreement soon so that more people can be allowed to close the door to a long working life with both a good conscience and a body that works. The most vulnerable in our society are entitled to better care for them. The vast majority of Danish children are well, but we need to pay much more attention to the children who are ill, often because their parents are unable to look after them well enough. We would like to give the exposed children more rights • fewer shifts, past and more stable placements. We need to become a community. We are at last doing this in another important area, namely legal certainty for rape victims. We wrote it in the understanding paper... now it becomes legislation. The government, Radical Left, Enhedslisten and SF agree that sex must always be based on consent. I can't believe it hasn't been a matter of course before. We all have a responsibility. This is also true in the debate on sexism that has been raised by hundreds of strong and courageous women. As elected representatives and as leaders of parties and organisations, of course we also have a special obligation that the change not only happens with ourselves, but throughout Denmark: in the van, in the hospital, in the teacher's room, in all parts of the labour market. And the rebellion that is now under way must not end up being just an update of the employee manual. This time, culture needs to change. We owe each other that much. Denmark has one of the world's best welfare societies. We have skilled and committed employees, and most of us also have many good experiences when we need the welfare society in everyday life • in the day offer or in the hospital. That's the front page of the medal. But there is also a backside: the pictures of Else and other secret footage from nursing homes, degrading, inhuman and painful. Where do these problems come from? Some of it is about time and employees, and we are in the process of prioritising welfare again, and it is necessary. But crowns and ears are far from the whole answer, and we will never solve the problems if that is always where the discussion starts and ends. Lack of properness and respect are not just about money; it is about professionalism and management and also about taking action when the few, who are not going to work with people at all, exceed all limits. It is about decency and about some failing their responsibility. When we opened the Folketing last year, my main message was that we need a proximity reform in the public sector, because over the years the public sector has been entangled in governance, centralisation, minute schedules, documentation and spreadsheets. The Corona has delayed our work, but the need has not diminished. Indeed, the resolute decisions of the spring showed us how much we can do when we dare to trust each other. Social and health assistants have said that much became much simpler when the profession actually got its place. Where earlier it could take long meetings to distribute assignments after a sick report, it was now just: I take it further! Nurses and doctors changed half a hospital in no time. New beds, new equipment, new employees, and retired colleagues came back to work. It worked on! In schools green spaces were turned into open classrooms with the fresh air and the movement which was actually one of the basic ideas of school reform. In some places, it was felt that the conflicts were decreasing and that the problems were actually being dealt with further! Public employees throughout the country continued to lift and undertake an unprecedented task. I'm not trying to draw a beautiful painting. There were pulled and we draw many bills, but when the sosu, the nurses and the doctors suddenly say that much could be done in a short time because of a global pandemic, then we really need to point our ears. The government has chosen to start with the police as a first step in the proximity reform. In our view, the police today have come too far from the everyday lives of many Danes. With our call, we're halving the National Police, and instead we're setting up 20 new local police units, and we're gonna need 300 more officers in the bourgeois effort around the police circle. It is perhaps the greatest decentralization of Danish police in a generation, and we can strengthen the close security that is so fundamental to all of us. In the area of taxation too, we are in the process. We chose to set up four new tax centres throughout the country. And it's actually gonna turn into eight. The first two will be ready this week, in Frederikssund and in Fredericia. And next year we'll open two more, in Viborg and in Esbjerg. Closeness is both about geography and a fight with many years of centralisation and about less central governance and more time locally. But I understand you public employees who are being removed from their eyes today, when we and I are again talking about this at Christiansborg and all of you out there who think you've heard it a thousand times before. I understand, too, if many of you don't believe it's gonna happen. For as early as the 1980s, Prime Minister Poul Schlüter began to speak against the growing bureaucracy. Since then, things have only got worse and worse. We have never spent so much money on welfare before, but the results are basically not goals. That was also the reason for the former VK government for the free community attempt. It was a good idea. From the bottom up, many good ideas were proposed and launched. The last time we sat in government, it was the Radical Left in particular who was concerned about releasing the municipalities more freely. That's right. Today I am going to propose something that goes further, something that we have not tried before. And I admit to a start that this is a very, very wild idea. Our proposal is that we give seven Danish municipalities complete freedom in a chosen welfare area. That is, for example, the case. Elsinore. For the next three years, Elsinore will have complete freedom in the area of day care. Of course, there will be a few fence posts of a legal nature, but in addition there will be freedom. Together with parents and teaching staff, Elsinore is allowed to create Denmark's best day care, crèches and kindergartens. We remove as much state regulation and legislation as possible, and instead we let people take responsibility for themselves. We live in 2020, we are one of the world's best educated people, we do not have to legislate about everything between heaven and earth. In addition to Helsingør, the government has made similar agreements with the mayors of Rebild in the north, Viborg in the middle, Middelfart on Funen, Holbæk on Zealand, Langeland, so we also have an island with us, and Esbjerg in the west. After today, the seven mayors will go back to their city councils and municipal councils and seek support to set the individual day care, kindergarten, school, home care unit or the individual nursing home free from all municipal rules and requirements for documentation. And I shall go to you here in the Folketing and ask for support for the same: that we jointly set seven municipalities free from the legislation and state regulation that they are normally subject to. And if it's gonna work, we're gonna have to go all the way. We also have to remove in these municipalities the rules that each of us has fought for its own introduction. Two of the seven municipalities are allowed to set the primary school free. It's Esbjerg, and it's Holbæk. Something fundamental, of course, we still need to have in place that teaching in Denmark is free, and that the students have to go to the graduating exams, but most other things we propose to remove. This applies to minimum hours, student schedules, class ceilings, national tests, just to mention some of the hardest examples. It's not because it's bad legislation. I am in favour of all this and not because it's wrong consideration, but because I think the time has come for us to have real responsibility locally, so that the individual institutions, leaders, employees, citizens, parents, relatives get freedom. On the other hand, they undertake to deliver better results than what our legislation has been able and able to do, because with freedom, of course, also comes responsibility. In this way, politics, as always, is about choice. And children and young people made the choice a climate choice. The majority here at Christiansborg received a clear green mandate. We feel obliged to do so, and we must be worthy of your trust. A massive majority is behind the Climate Act. It's unique. In 10 years we will have reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 70%. This corresponds to the fact that in one decade we will have to reduce emissions almost as much as we have done over the last three decades. Since the election, we've been speeding up. In one year we in the Danish Parliament have made decisions together with others. business, which reduces emissions by more than 5 million. t in 2030. What does that mean? In fact, this means that in one year we have already reached a quarter of all the way to the 70%. I say this because that fact tends to disappear in the debate, just as you can almost get the impression that if you are in favour of technology, you are opposed to ambitious climate action. But when today we can open the Folketing with green power in the sockets and in the light bulbs, it is only because our predecessors invested in developing the wind turbines. Technology doesn't just fail from the sky. It's not about investing in new technology. Bets are the kind of thing you can do on a trotting track. It is about creating and developing the technology by investing ambitiously, wisely and purposefully. Because even if we are in isolation ahead of the timetable now, we know that from here it will be difficult. We are facing the most profound changes in our society and our economy since we began building the modern welfare society in the post-war period. This applies to the way we transport, heat houses, produce food. Everything needs to change. But, like most other things, it can be done if we dare make the right choices. All the initiatives that we can take here and now, which reduce greenhouse gases, we must take: energy efficiency improvements in industry, increased use of biogas, more recycling and phasing out of oil and gas pine. Everything we agreed on in the old parliamentary year, we need more in the new year. Now we have embarked on transport. We shall then be dealing with a green tax reform and a conversion of agriculture. In the short term, it is about changing the feed so that animals emit less CO2 In the longer term, we need to look at the overall regulation of agriculture and how we can make it play along with the green tax reform. We're going now because it's urgent. But we cannot achieve all our goals with the solutions we know today. The discussion about electric cars is really a good example. Should we have half a million electric cars by 2030 or a million? The question is whether that is the right question to ask. Perhaps the question should be: how do we switch the entire transport sector so that we get as much CO2 as possible? to change car taxation so that electric cars become cheaper and heavy traffic becomes more expensive and that fuel becomes greener, so that we mix more biofuels into the diesel our cars drive on. We must be ambitious, but we must also have Denmark as a showcase for the rest of the world. We do not believe that anyone will follow us if our path is expensive, incalculable and socially unfair. At the same time as the short-term initiatives, we must make a determined effort to invest in research. This year we are increasing investment in green research from 1.2 billion. kr. to 2.3 billion. kr. It's close to doubling. And on the Finance Act for next year, we are proposing a further increase. We are bringing public and private research closer together with climate partnerships between states, companies, business organisations, agriculture and trade unions, and we are now making a choice. In the government's new green research strategy, we identify four areas that can become Denmark's next big adventure. Firstly, we need to be good at catching CO2 Secondly, we need to be good at developing green fuel for transport and industry, for example. transforming power from wind turbines into fuel in aircraft, ships and cars. So what the world is talking about as power-to-x. Thirdly, we need a more climate-friendly agriculture. Fourthly, we need to be good at recycling and cutting down on plastic waste, which, moreover, all too often ends up in animals' stomachs. We have chosen four areas where we as a country are strong and where therefore the opportunities are greatest, both to create green jobs and to make a difference in the green transition. But let me conclude by saying so that it cannot be misunderstood: the 70-percent objective is legal, it has been adopted and it has been decided and we stand firm on it. To our good collaborators in both the SF, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten, I would say: We understand your impatience, because it is urgent to make decisions and take more of them if we are to achieve our common goals. That is why I am also making a clear statement today: we must use the economic recovery to fulfil our promise of a more ambitious green transition, and we therefore propose a green room for manoeuvre of 2 billion. kr. By 2025 each year, so that together we can make sure of the green investments in the coming years, we will have a total of 10 billion. kr. We can do this if we use both the funds from the EU Recovery Fund and the Finance Act green. In the forthcoming climate negotiations and in the Finance Act, to which the Minister for Finance will soon invite us, we will translate impatience into action. We have three crucial considerations: we must continue to make climate decisions in a way that creates jobs instead of closing them; inequality must not increase; and we must, of course, continue to be able to afford welfare. In fact, I think we can agree on that contract, including broad green ambitions, social justice, sound business policy and welfare advice. I therefore believe that in the coming months we will be able to take the next major, green and progressive decisions that show young people that we deserve their trust. In 3 months we will write the story of 2020 • a hard year for Denmark, a hard year for the world, but also a year that gives us food for thought. There is no human being who invents the values a life is about, in which it is founded, and which relations are created by. The Corona is harder than anything we've ever tried in modern times. But we have decided together that this challenge will also be met. And with that, with that decision, we are going to deliver incredibly powerful values to posterity. The power of trade in Denmark is intact, the unity is strong, the social mind gets us through. I have never been more optimistic on behalf of Denmark. We can create the future we want for each other, for the progress, for the community. Rarely has it been more appropriate to shout a threefold hurrah for Denmark, as is the tradition at the opening of the Danish Parliament. But here in the Chamber, too, we must take care of each other, and that is why it must be different this year. Instead of shouting a hurrah together in this Chamber, today we are shouting a hurrah in our hearts. I will end my speech with the two most important words of this historic time: Denmark live!
ParlaMint-DK_20201006125312	Thank you, Prime Minister. As you know, the statement will be debated on Thursday 8 October 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20201006125324	Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Finance (Nicolai Wammen): Bill no. L 1 (Proposal for a Finance Act for the financial year 2021), Bill No. L 2 (Proposal for a Law on the establishment of expenditure ceilings for the State, Municipalities and Regions for the financial year 2024) and Bill No. L 3 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the establishment of expenditure ceilings for the State, Municipalities and Regions for the financial year 2021, the Law on the establishment of expenditure ceilings for the State, Municipalities and Regions for the financial year 2022 and the Law on the establishment of expenditure ceilings for the State, Municipalities and Regions for the financial year 2023. Tax Minister (Morten Bødskov): Bill no. L 4 (Proposal for a Law amending the Tax Control Act and various other laws. in connection with the payment of holiday guarantee schemes, etc.) The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. above.). The Minister for Nordic Cooperation (Mogens Jensen) has informed me that he wishes to do so pursuant to Rule 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Folketing a written statement on Nordic co-operation. R 2). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Wednesday, 7 October 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20201006125409	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 7 October 2020, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
