ParlaMint-DK_20200331120003	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331120019	The items listed as No. 1-5 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331120026	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331120047	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' In favour 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331120851	I would ask the rapporteurs to come into the Chamber, and that is the draftsmen of the Bill No. L 153. No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331120957	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. 2, 1. (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG), against 0, abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331121711	I would ask the rapporteurs from the parties to Bill L 154 to come to the Assembly. No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331121823	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' in favour of 96 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331122600	I would ask the rapporteurs to come to the Chamber. The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Leif Lahn Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331122623	Thank you so much. As employment rapporteurs, we have sometimes stood in this Chamber during the Corona crisis to ensure that both employees and companies have the opportunity to get as good as possible through this difficult time. We must ensure that as many employees as possible retain their jobs and, at the same time, ensure that employees working in a company that is in difficulty are also helped as well as we can now help them. But it is inevitable that there are companies that are suffering from illness or who have quarantined employees, or companies that are under extra pressure in these times. It can be within health care, the police or other public authorities as well as individual private companies, for example in the food industry. These companies still have to work. It's incredibly important to us, it's important to society in this time. And many of them also have a number of employees who just cannot be spared. That is why it is also our job to ensure that these companies have the flexibility they need so that they can still operate in everyday life. The draft law means that there are major reasons why a company lacks special labour due to corona, holidays which were to be taken during this holiday year may be postponed until the subsequent holding period. This may apply to holidays which have been defined and to holidays which have not been defined. Here it will always be the best thing to do as usual, that is to say to agree this between the employer and employees, but it can also be done on instructions from the employer. Here, any costs for a planned holiday will then also be borne by the employer. As with the other urgent proposals, this is a temporary arrangement and will apply only to the holiday earned during the 2019-20 holiday year, which will be held before 1 May and the short holiday year from 1 May to 31 August of this year. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331122823	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331122831	Thank you. There is no doubt that we are in an extraordinary situation now. Covid-19's influence can be clearly seen on Danish society. A wide range of different areas must therefore be adapted so that we can deal with this unusual situation. Many would probably want them to be able to travel on holiday at this very moment... perhaps to another world where there is no corona... but unfortunately we cannot travel, and we must and must face up to the challenge. Incredibly many Danes make every day a huge effort to combat corona, especially in the country's hospitals. Daily they expose themselves to infection, and unfortunately the result is that many people are also at risk of becoming ill. However, there are also other industries that are currently playing an absolutely crucial role in order to overcome this crisis, particularly the transport, food and grocery industries, which include: helping us all to get the goods that we demand daily. They've also been hit. They are busy because demand is rising, and they are like us all at risk of becoming ill. At this stage, we are more dependent than ever on all those who help in the critical functions. When we talk about those who make an extra effort, we should at least have a thank you on the road; all those who contribute to making essential processes in society run like smeared, and also those who take care of our sick and coronas infected. The Left can therefore support the bill, as it allows more hands to help in a period when we need everyone extra. At the same time, it is important for the Left that employers and employees in the private sector should have the same opportunities and conditions to take advantage of the possibility of postponing holidays as employers and employees in the public sector, as the previous rapporteur has explained very well. We must therefore respond to the urgent demand for special labour so that we can hopefully get through this corona crisis quickly, and that is why the Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331123057	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331123108	Thank you for that, President. I will not repeat everything that has been said here by the two previous rapporteurs, but this is important for those who are in a situation where they are unable to take the holiday to which they are entitled during the holiday year. A lot of people are under pressure right now. There are many who make an extra effort, and in this connection there are also some who simply postpone their holidays because they do not have the opportunity to hold them. They also feel obliged to make an effort for Denmark to get Denmark upstairs. That's why it's fair that this bill gets through. This will mean that you can postpone the holiday that you do not have until the next holiday year. This will be of benefit to many, because of course many people are a little caught up. I think that if someone wanted to do so, perhaps you could also do so so that you could get that holiday paid if that is what you wanted, rather than keeping it when you cannot hold it. I don't know if the Minister for Employment will look into that. In other words, if there was a wish from some of those who postpone their holidays to receive the holiday, they could choose it instead. Perhaps the Minister for Employment could say something about this in the platform, i.e. whether there were any opportunities to go that way. I shall not be able to say how many people want to get it paid; it may also be that you are in the situation that when you are over this, you simply need to have the holiday taken place. But it could be that some people wanted it to be paid instead of postponing it. The Danish People's Party can support the proposal, but asks the Minister to look at the possibility that people should be able to choose for themselves whether they want to have the holiday paid rather than to spend it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331123311	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331123319	Thank you. Many companies are under pressure in these times, most of all because the work is cancelled, but there are also some companies that are particularly under pressure at this time because there is additional work to be done. And those companies need flexibility so that some of their employees can postpone the holiday until next holiday year. That is because there is a great need for the employees of the company right now, and therefore there is a reason for saying special thanks to all those who expose themselves to possible infection and perform critical functions, which are not only health professionals, but also all those who, for example, are involved. works in the transport industry, and all those who work in our grocery stores. From this point of view, I should like to say that the Radical Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331123416	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the SF, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331123424	Many cymbals small make a large stream. I often think of this in these weeks, because the initiatives to pull society through the crisis range far from large financial aid packages to all sorts of practical measures. Most initiatives must keep their hands on companies and jobs. And today we're gonna treat a small, but important piece. After all, there are also industries and companies which will need their employees in an extraordinary way in the near future. I think it is a good thing that the social partners find solutions together, and through this law employees are giving a helping hand to the companies by accepting that holiday days are postponed. The extra effort on the part of the employees shows socialism and an urgent help to the companies. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331123521	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331123529	Thank you very much. See, vacation is really precious to employees. And especially, when you've worked long and been under pressure, vacation means a lot. Therefore, you have to think very carefully if you delay planned holidays. But the corona crisis changes a lot for many, and the welfare heroes in hospitals and nursing homes need it right now. It also applies to everyday heroes in shops and other community-friendly functions. We need them right now, and that is why the Danish Parliament is asking for an opportunity to derogate from the holiday law when essential, unpredictable operational considerations make it necessary in the context of the corona that the holiday can be postponed to the subsequent period of vacation. The Enhedslisten supports the proposal, but we would like to remind you that the heroes of welfare and the heroes of everyday life, whose vacation we now allow to postpone, deserve more than a rhetorical pat on the shoulder. We must remember that they also have families, that they want to take holidays with their families, that they can run out of energy. They also need days off. Hopefully, when the corona crisis is soon dimmed, we should remember that we now discovered their real value and their vitality, and we must show that we value their efforts through better pay and working conditions in the future, by ensuring that they have enough colleagues to do the work and by recognising their efforts. We simply have to give back something important when we have taken something as important from them as their vacation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331123704	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331123712	Thank you very much. None of us had seen the corona crisis coming, including our companies, which are going through an extremely hard period these days. We need to take this very seriously, and for the existence of our companies it is a prerequisite for the welfare state we have in Denmark today. This proposal allows the employer to postpone employees' holidays earned in 2018 to be held before the end of the abbreviated holiday year on 31 August 2020. These are employees who are important to the workplace for such operational reasons, as companies and the public authorities may find themselves in a situation where they need to be able to draw on the necessary and specific labour force, which may be so vital, among other things. in health care and other public institutions as well as, not least, in our companies on the private labour market, which are so deep down that they may be forced to have the right employees present at the right time to have a chance to survive alone in these covid-19 times. That is why we very much welcome the proposal and would like to say that it is important that we give employers a much better chance of getting back into gear when the corona crisis starts to calm down and we need to get companies back on the big blade. They must have the rosters to hang together if we are to have Denmark back together, and that is why the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331123838	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331123852	Another measure to address the Corona problem I would like to commend the government for being effective in this area too, so we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331123907	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331123914	We also support this bill in the Liberal Alliance. It is good that some of the people who are pulling a very large load in these days, because it is necessary for society and for their employers, whether public or private, can take some extra holiday that they have not been able to take now, later on the holiday year, that is, the new one. We think this is sensible, and that is why we support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331123944	Thank you to the rapporteur. As I see no rapporteur from the Alternative, I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331123958	Thank you very much to the rapporteurs for all the comments and the very broad support for the draft law here. Of course, from the government's point of view, we welcome both the support for the proposal, but of course we also welcome the fact that we can deal with the proposal as a matter of urgency at all. As everyone knows, and as everyone has also said in their rapporteur's speeches, we are in an extraordinary situation. We have taken a number of measures from the government to mitigate the worst consequences in order to provide security for Danish employees and to hold hands under Danish economy. With the bill here we ensure that holidays can be postponed to the subsequent holiday retention period if the holiday cannot be held during the holiday year due to significant, unpredictable operational considerations due to the covid-19. The aim of the bill is to provide special and necessary manpower for companies that, due to the covid-19, have extraordinary tasks, including, not least, our healthcare, police and food supply. In addition, we ensure that employees' cancelled holidays can be completed at a later stage, even if this time is in a new year of holiday. The termination of the holiday may be effected by agreement between the employer and the employee and, if necessary, by the employer's instructions. The draft law also provides for the possibility for the social partners to agree in which other situations relating to covid-19 may be postponed to a subsequent period of vacation. This is in line with the agreement that has just been reached in the public sector on the abolition of freedom in the context of covid-19. Here the parties agreed to seek solutions for employees who are prevented from taking holidays that cannot be transferred to the holiday year 2020-21. And that is necessary, because Easter is at the door, and the holiday year ends on April 30th, and it is not likely that we will be back to the reality that we knew just a month ago. During the debate, the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mr. Bent Bøgsted, to the possibility that employees may receive the deferred leave. The proposal itself does not allow for the payment of the holiday. To the extent that the employee can receive the holiday in accordance with the general rules of the Vacation Act, the holiday may continue to be paid. The payment of the fifth week of leave after the end of the current year is therefore still possible, even if the period of leave has been postponed in accordance with the proposal, provided that the conditions for payment are otherwise fulfilled. The bill will come into force as soon as possible. I am convinced that with this bill and the other measures we can help both employers and employees better through the difficult situation we are facing. It is also my expectation that both employers and employees will continue to show the very great social spirit we see in all parts of Danish society right now. I would like to thank you for today's debate and look forward to the forthcoming debate in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331124306	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331124322	I am going to start by asking the rapporteurs of the bill to come into the Parliamentary Chamber and the rapporteurs of the previous bill, if they are not rapporteurs on this bill, to leave the Parliamentary Chamber. The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Orla Hav. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331124410	Thank you. After all, it is no secret to say that it is in every way a strange time that puts Danish society under extreme pressure, and that bears the proposals put forward in this Chamber, too, that they are an attempt to ease the pressure on our entire society. The proposal that we are going to debate at the moment includes two elements of the Financial Statements Act, one of which is to allow companies to postpone the presentation of financial statements for a period of 2 to 3 months. This should have taken place on 31 May this year, but with the bill here, companies will have the opportunity to use their energies to ensure that the company also exists when we come on the other side of this health crisis, which we are currently experiencing, and which, of course, is seriously affecting our business community. We think it is a sensible element to have in mind that we are handing the business community a hand in this way, also in terms of work. Then I can see that there is an excuse for the expression "an old travert" into it, i.e. that the closure law should almost be the reason for all the things and things in the world. Now we are relaxing so little where the rest of the closure law can be put to the test, and this can also help to ease the way consumers, such as citizens and businesses handle trade. We have nodded to that, and we are also prepared to accept it in the subsequent work. So we recommend the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331124600	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331124608	Thank you for the floor. It is another proposal among many, which aims to bring us as well as a society through the Corona crisis as possible, with two elements, as the Socialist rapporteur also explained. The first part is about giving some more flexibility in relation to when companies should submit annual reports to the Danish Business Authority. There are a lot of companies that are extremely pressured at the moment, and the bill envisages giving a little extra time 2 to 3 months extra time to prepare financial statements and have them sent in. I think that gives a little bit of quiet out there in companies where the tasks are many and the concerns are great. Moreover, the aid packages we make also require a certain involvement of auditors in a number of cases, and there is simply a challenge to ensure that there is the necessary manpower among auditors available. So it is quite reasonable for the Minister to be given the power to push the deadlines. I have already written to the Minister about the proposal myself, because I heard from many companies and accountants that it would be helpful. So, of course, we support that part. The second part of the bill, which is a relaxation of the closure law, is also supported. We stand in front of Easter, and we know that two of the biggest shopping days in our grocery stores are Wednesday before Thursday and Saturday before Easter Day. I have listened to the discussion and concern that we are going to continue with the closure law, as we know it, in this situation, so there is a risk that there will be a great many customers in the grocery stores for the two days, and that is why the proposal that trade should be extended over several days has been raised. We have listened to this in the Left and think it makes great sense that we relax the closing law so that the pressure on the grocery stores can be spread over several days, so that people do not get up and down each other when shopping for Easter. The proposal has been on the table before the crisis, where I myself was also supporting it, precisely for the same reason, so simply a concern that there will be too many in our grocery stores in a short time. That is why, of course, we also support the granting of the Minister's authority to ensure that two additional days can be kept open at Easter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331124901	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331124910	Thank you. Unfortunately, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party cannot be here today, but that is why I have promised to say a little about this proposal. We think it is sensible that, in the context of the corona crisis, the obligation to submit an annual report should be waived, so that they have a little more time to do so. We also think it is sensible to extend the opening hours at Easter, so there are two additional days. It is then Thursday and Easter day that the shops are allowed to be open in this regard. We know that there are some big stores that would have liked to have been open all the time. They've always wanted to. But we are giving two extra days, and we think that is reasonable, so that there will not be too much congestion up to Easter here in connection with the corona crisis. Especially on Saturdays, it can go crazy if it is the only day of Easter where it is open. There may be a lot of trouble, so if we can get the customers out in a few more days, that's very reasonable. Then we will hope that those who are going to act will also take into account and say that we do not all have to come out and act on the same day. We can't control that if that's the way it's gonna be. It is the shops that have to control how many people enter the shops in this connection. However, the Danish People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331125044	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. This welcomes the next rapporteur from the Radical Left, Mrs Katrine Robsøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331125051	Thank you. Well, here we are again under the special conditions that the covid-19 has put us in. I am very pleased that today we can deal urgently with the legislative proposals that will help to clarify two fairly urgent issues for our companies. The first is, as has been said, the submission of annual reports. Our companies right now are really under pressure. By postponing the deadline for submitting the annual report, we are at least creating a small amount of air in the number of urgent tasks so that instead time can be used to ensure that one's business survives. At the same time, there may simply be cases where there has been no possibility of holding a general meeting. This is a minor thing that we can change, and we would, of course, like to support it. The second question is about the closing days of Easter. With the bill, we also give the larger shops the opportunity to hold open Thursday and Easter Sunday. The closure law can quickly become a dangerous issue to address, but I think this is a balanced solution in an extraordinary situation. We need better distribution of trade so that we do not get too many people together in the same place at the same time. I also know that we are asking the employees of the shops right now for a lot of things and that they had been looking forward to these Easter days. But I hope that good solutions can be found in the shops. In any case, thank you very much for your efforts there. I think that the compromise is balanced and sensible, and with that I would like to say that Radicals support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331125242	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the SF, and that is Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331125250	Thank you. It's a difficult time for a lot of people in these coronates. All parties, despite distinctions, give and take these weeks. This is clearly reflected in the many urgent proposals being discussed here in the Folketing at the moment. I have great respect for my political colleagues, who have achieved a great many results across political divides in a short time. Today, here we are again with something we can call two in one. The first part is about authorizing the Minister of Industry to derogate from the obligations incumbent on undertakings under the legislation in the field of company law and accounting. In particular, there is a desire to extend and thereby derogate from the deadline laid down in the Accounting Act for the submission of annual reports. Of course, we must respond to these changes because the companies in these times are under pressure. SF supports that proposal. But then there is another proposal. It is about suspending the closure law at Easter by two days, and the SF must withdraw its support for the proposal. We want this to be divisible into two parts. We cannot back up for any more reason. We do not think that this is fair to the employees. Everyday heroes: That's how more people have talked about the people who are doing an extra job these days. We've seen how big a difference the cashier and her colleagues make in these times. And thank you for that. Employees are entitled to vacation and need vacation right now. This change has to happen if you change it at four weeks' notice. I have talked to several people who have been to work in our grocery stores around, and they can report that they have had a minimum of free time because the shelves had to be filled up. The employees are looking forward to an Easter holiday, which is due to take place at home right now because of the circumstances. That Easter vacation, I think, is what employees deserve. HK has pointed out that if the employees are not given the opportunity to get a break right now, this could end up with extra illness and, at worst, stress. In SF we do not believe that during these Easter days there will be trade as before. Usually large Easter lunches are traded on our holidays, but because of a command against larger gatherings we don't think these gatherings will be the same as before. Many people are already at home now, and people have plenty of time to shop because they are home in the days leading up to Easter. Perhaps there is also an extra good reason to shut it all down these days, including the big supermarkets. That is why SF believes it is good that it is the large supermarkets that need to shut down right now. Finally, I would also like to say that closing our large chains will promote the small ones. The Joint Council of Rural Regions has raised some concerns in this area. Here we fear the consequence that local shops and merchants in rural areas will lose sales. So this applies to the small shops in the countryside. The closure law states that grocery stores with a turnover of less than 15 million. kr. can stay open at Easter. Our profession is under pressure. The big groceries have had fine days in these times of crisis. Easter is a hand-out to small grocery stores, and it is they who must continue to be allowed to stay open on Easter. The alternative could also be that when the crisis is over, the big three or four Sundays could be closed afterwards, but we do not believe that that is possible. With these arguments, SF finds it very difficult to support a suspension of the closure law, even though we can see that some solutions have been sought • such a thing as adapting the opening hours. I therefore hope that the Minister will be involved in dividing this proposal into two parts.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331125745	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331125756	I would like to start by thanking you, we call everyday heroes, those who work hard in supermarkets and have shown extraordinary flexibility in these weeks, and who have been at the forefront of the risk of being infected. You are all the other equals some of the most exposed people in society at the moment, and you are risking your health daily to service us others so that we can get bought in. So thank you. The Government's intention with the bill is to abolish the closure law in order to limit the risk of infection by spreading trade between several shops. Limiting the risk of infection is a goal that we all support. Several people are concerned that the cows will be long when you see how many and how much was traded at the same time last year. But there's a big difference. The Prime Minister has already asked for all the Easter lunches in the country to be cancelled, and that in itself will reduce the trade enormously. More people work from home, order online, and the opportunity to plan their purchases is much better than it used to be, and so I see no reason to have to cut off the days off for hardworking shop workers • employees who have already gone very far. Should one still need to be able to act urgently during the two additional days proposed by the government, it should be remembered that grocery stores with a turnover of less than 35 million. kr., already open, and a significant part of their turnover actually gets them at Easter. Therefore, it is not only the heroes of everyday life that we must take into account here, but it is also the smaller grocery stores that hold the fort against the big chains and which are important for a community to have. We need to find a delicate balance between need to garden and nice to garden. And if it isn't necessary for many of you to also work on Easter Days, we shouldn't do it, because then it's not need to have, then it's nice to have. And that's why we're in the Enhedslisten against this part of the bill. With regard to the second part of the legislative proposal, I think it makes sense to postpone the deadline for reporting annual reports to companies. And that may also be absolutely necessary when the business is closed or put on a low blouse during the corona crisis. And that is why I hope that the Minister will accommodate us and the SF in the desire to have the proposal split up. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331130031	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mona Juul. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331130042	Thank you for the floor. In this difficult time, new challenges are constantly emerging, big and small, practical as emotional, economical as human. It's very violent. And it's very violent to law-read at lightning speed these days and hours. Maybe it's just the least of it. Today, with L 168, we are going to solve a few tasks which really just need to be solved and which need to be put on the flybone, and then we have to go on with what is also really important. One task is to ensure more time to make annual accounts, to hold general meetings and to make tax returns, both for the sake of companies, but also for the sake of accountants, who at this time are heavily burdened. The companies are busy tackling the many challenges that come with the decommissioning of Denmark, the auditors with the many extra tasks of getting the aid packages to work for the affected companies as quickly as possible. That is why it is an initiative that we ourselves have helped to bring forward and which, of course, we support. However, the auditors also point out that there are other deadlines, for example: in tax legislation, which should be extended. This applies, among other things, to: In this respect, it should be noted that the Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market is based on the principle of proportionality and is based on Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). The second task is to ensure distance between traders on Easter. I myself have been a cashier for something like 100 years ago, and I know very well how busy those days are, Wednesday and Saturday. Here the retail industry itself has found a solution that takes into account both health and safety and that the extra trade to be expected at Easter will also come here. Thank you. I do not think, however, that there is any reason to allow the derogation to run until the end of the year. After all, it's just Easter we want to fix from here. That is why I think it is very important that we close the legislative proposal immediately afterwards. Otherwise, of course, we support a solution which the industry itself supports and where, in my opinion, we act responsibly and well towards the shops, just as we act responsibly and well in relation to the shops that do not trade in groceries, that is to say clothing shops, bookshops and all the restaurants that have now become very good at selling food out of the house. We are actually an enlightened society, and the Danes have learned how to handle corona, so that shopping in everyday life works fine and safe. And now that even recycling sites have found out that it is no more dangerous to throw cardboard into the container than to buy 2 litres of milk, it is my hope that many others will see the same thing. Because although we are in the middle of the crisis, there is no reason to keep something closed, there is no risk of keeping it open. And perhaps the church and the minister could be inspired by it. I have seen that you can both do services online and make driveinkirches, but you can't find a solution in relation to the physical churches as well. Finally, let me say that it is very good and well deserved when we are rooting for health professionals. They need a huge thank you for their efforts. We should also remember the same thing to say to the shops and their employees. In fact, I think they are doing a great job so that we can all act properly. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331130344	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens. It's sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331130353	Thank you. That is another good move. I would like to commend the government and the Minister for Business for taking these steps. This is something the business community has been asking for out there. I don't have to tell people where to act or what to do, but I would like to encourage people to do something. If they had now planned to shop in the small shops because the big ones were closed, perhaps they could also remember the small shops in this time, because sometimes a pretty large part of their turnover is in these Easter days, when the big stores have closed. If you can think about it... it's just a call from here... maybe we'll all get through this. However, a great deal of praise for the proposal, and we can support it both with closeness and, in particular, with the flexibility of accounts. So much credit to the government for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331130444	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance. It's sir. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331130451	Ros continues to both suggestions. These are two good proposals that we support. We are particularly pleased with this proposal to suspend the closure law. It is actually the case that four days ago we issued a press release entitled "LA" proposing a relaxation of the closure law across Easter. In Heri, business rapporteur Alex Vanopslagh says: the government should suspend the closure law across Easter, so that customers rather than trade in large clusters with high risk of infection up to closing days instead spread their purchases beyond the traditional closing days. The next day there will be a press release from the Ministry of Industry, in which the Minister of Industry says: this gives us all greater opportunity to act at different times. This gives shorter cows and less exposure to infection, which is why the government is proposing to suspend the closure law. I think it is an extremely clever press release that has been issued. I do not quite think I dare to say that there is a coincidence and a connection between the press release issued by the Liberal Alliance and that from the Ministry of Industry, but I dare to have a little hope, and in future I will ensure that, as far as all the press releases produced by the Liberal Alliance in the field of business rapporteurs are concerned, the Minister for Business and Industry is concerned. It may be that we will have a healthy business policy after this crisis too. I hope that this is the start of good cooperation. Both proposals are praised from this point of view in the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331130605	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks, and since I do not see any rapporteur present from the alternative, I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Industry. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331130615	Thank you very much for the floor, and may I not just start with the last part of the bill first by doing, as several of my colleagues have done, here from the Parliament's platform to express the utmost respect and the greatest thanks to the many employees who are in our stores in the retail trade these days. We know that you are in the front line and that it feels insecure, but you are doing it anyway, and you are helping to keep the wheels running and keep Denmark running so huge thanks to you. Part of this bill is to limit the spread of the infection of the corona virus, and we know that the days up to and also during Easter are traditionally some of the biggest trading days we have. And yes, it is true that there are usually Easter lunches at Easter, and that is not the case this year, but so many of us do not have Easter lunches and do not have to go to Easter lunches, but still have to have something to eat, and therefore there will still be pressure on our groceries and groceries. It means everything else equal that many people will be gathered in shops at once, and it will also increase the risk of infection for covid-19, but we can limit the risk of infection, which is why I think we should do it. That's why the government is presenting this model today, where grocery stores, which are otherwise not allowed to open on closing days, are given the opportunity to hold open Thursday and Easter day in the period from 1 p.m. 10:00 to 10:00. 17.00. In this way, we are helping to expand the space in which people can trade, so that hopefully we do not lump ourselves together in the shops. And I'd like to repeat, sir. Bent Bøgsted's call to all of us to remember to spend the time that is open and spread the trade on the open hours that are as well as we can. I am glad that we have actually managed to make a balanced model where we do not take all four closing days at Easter, but take two of them; one takes a limited period of time. And in this way it has been brought to where, in fact, there is a model in which, despite well-known views, which I share, the overall consumer goods industry across all the different positions that are naturally to the closure law can nevertheless back it up, and where, despite the well-known views of the Rural Council, the importance of the closure law for the smaller traders in our societies around Denmark can still see that a reasonable balance has been found here. With the legislative proposal we are dealing with here, it is then proposed that I, as Minister of Business, be authorised to lay down rules derogating from the restrictions contained in that law so that the agreed model can be implemented here before Easter. And I would like to say to Mrs Mona Juul, who proposes that the sunset clause on the law should be brought forward: if the committee chooses to divide it up, one might consider doing so; I just want to say that it is only my intention to use it on the two Easter days here. So in this way there should be no difficulty in meeting it, but perhaps not even the same need. On the second part of the draft law, I would say that we are in an extraordinary situation right now; we are in a serious crisis where the very existence of many companies is actually threatened. Therefore, it is crucial that we help each other with the release of time, the release of competences in companies, so that they can concentrate on addressing the challenges arising from corona. And there is a single business community that has pointed out that neither in the epidemic law nor in the current company and accounting legislation are there sufficient opportunities to take account of an extraordinary situation that we have with corona. The government is, of course, listening to the very clear appeal that has come from the business world, which we know is exceptionally busy right now. And with the bill we are discussing today, we are therefore proposing that the Minister of Industry be given the opportunity and authority to grant derogations from certain rules in the field of accounting and company law for the benefit of our business community in this particular situation. I'm gonna do one of those things. take advantage of the power to lay down rules that the deadline for submitting annual reports in the fields of the Danish Business Authority and the Danish FSA is postponed, and I expect, when the law is passed, to be able to postpone it by 3 months. In this context, I would like to support it, Mr President. Torsten Schack Pedersen said about the accountants. For the truth is that, with this postponement, we are not only releasing time and competences in companies, but also, hopefully, releasing some people who are working hard on annual reports, by the way, our auditors, whom we very much need, can devote their energies to the support schemes which the government, the social partners and, above all, the entire Folketing are rolling out throughout the country in these days. So that is a very relevant consideration that the Left has made about the auditors. Finally, I would just like to express my thanks for the good reception of the draft law, and although it is an urgent procedure and everything is moving very quickly, I would just like to acknowledge the good cooperation of the business group and I look forward to discussing further with the committee, where, of course, I will help that the requested amendment from the SF and the Enhedslisten to divide the draft law can go to the committee for further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331131240	Thank you, Minister. There is no wish for brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331131320	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Orla Hav, welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331131330	Thank you. The Nordic Investment Bank is a sensible arrangement to have, in the sense that it is wise to get more players to work together to achieve good results on important social issues and important societal tasks. After all, it is the Minister of Business who, with the fine title of Governor, manages the Nordic Investment Bank not the whole bank, but the Danish interests in the investment bank. And it is the case that the bank has wanted to have a change in the statutes of the Nordic Investment Bank, which means that new principles are applied to the lending policy that one has, so that loans are transferred to the actual banking business. This is in line with so many others, and it seems to us to be a very sensible measure. The more we are created on the basis of good cooperation, the better we will also be on the ground. After all, we are thinking very much about coronatides and so on, how to get society back on track and how to ensure that the green transition gets under way in the best possible way, and having a bank that can help to invest in some sensible projects can make it possible for me to say almost the whole world to get off the ground again on top of this corona crisis. All in all, we think that we should equip the governor with the authority to accede to the new statutes; they look quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331131527	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And the next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331131536	Thank you for the floor. The Nordic Investment Bank is a public investment bank owned by Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland, Iceland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. The EIB finances projects in the form of loans and guarantees aimed at improving competitiveness and the environment in the countries concerned. The resolution basically deals with whether Denmark can approve agreements on amendments to the Bank's statutes. And if I was not quite wrong when I read the comments, it is actually amendments to the Staff Regulations that have been approved under the previous government. That means that we in the Left think it is a good idea. We must stand by inheritance and debt, and of course we do so here too. There are four key amendments to the Staff Regulations. The first is a new model of capital and liquidity management. It goes from being based on risk-neutral capital requirements to being carried out in accordance with recognised principles for responsible banking. The eight governors, and as the Social Democratic rapporteur stressed, the Minister for Business is one of the senior managers of the bank, with the change being given the power to decide on the principles of capital and liquidity management. The aim is that the bank should be based more on the same risk-sensitive requirements as commercial banks. The second amendment is the winding-up of two loan programmes. They are settled in their current form and are incorporated into the general lending business of the investment bank. The guarantees and capital reserves of the owner countries are transferred to the normal business, while some of the guarantees for these loan schemes are cancelled. The third amendment to the Staff Regulations is the strengthening of the Supervisory Committee, which oversees the Bank's management and board of directors. The last amendment to the Statute is an extension of the Bank's instruments to potentially include equity investments in addition to loans and guarantees provided today. It's pretty technical when you're going through it. The reality is, as I see it, that some of what is now such a firm practice, namely that there is a maximum leverage of 250 per cent. of the capital invested becomes more risk-based. That is the way to do it in all sorts of other places, and it makes quite good sense. These are sensible changes and, as I said, the agreement on them has been reached under the former Left Government, so we naturally support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331131800	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331131808	Thank you. This is a resolution on Nordic banking cooperation between countries. Now there have been two rapporteurs, first Mr. Orla Hav from the Social Democratic Party and then Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left, who has explained what the proposal contains. I shall not, therefore, tire of further comments on this. There has been plenty of explanation for this. That is why I just have to say that the Danish People's Party naturally also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331131845	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left. This is Mrs. Katrine Robsøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331131851	Thank you. I will also be very brief. I just wanted to say that I am glad that we are sticking to the fact that we are dealing urgently with this bill too, so that we do not limit the opportunities for the Nordic Investment Bank to help in connection with the covid-19. Just as this health crisis goes beyond all borders, it is also doing so in the fields of economics and industry, and therefore it is very good if we can also use the Nordic Investment Bank to find common solutions. The various amendments have been examined and we think they are sensible and therefore Radicals would like to support them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331131930	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the SF, and that is Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331131937	Thank you. Oh, it's hard to be a new business rapporteur for a while and get a resolution like this one last night. I have to say that it is absolutely necessary for a new business rapporteur to do so. I can start by thanking Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen to make something complicated less complicated. The purpose of this resolution is to ensure that the Nordic Investment Bank is managed at all times in accordance with the recognised principles of responsible banking, including in relation to capital and liquidity management. Here we give the governor the power to lay down general principles as to how much capital and liquidity the bank must retain in relation to the risks that the bank takes in its business. SF welcomes further work and supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331132030	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten. This is Mrs. Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331132036	Thank you. I will also be brief. There are several who have examined the various amendments and we also think that they sound reasonable. We have a few supplementary questions which we intend to deal with in the further work of the committee, and we look forward to doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331132052	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mona Juul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331132103	Thank you for the floor. In these violent times when the health crisis is causing an economic crisis, we must do everything we can to minimise job losses, of course. Conservatives therefore support the idea that the Nordic Investment Bank should be given the power to define the general principles of how much capital and liquidity the Bank should retain in relation to the risks taken by the Bank in its business. Of course, one is tempted to say, because the change means that the Nordic Investment Bank can then base capital and liquidity management more on the same risk-sensitive requirements that are imposed on commercial banks. That is what is needed at this time, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331132141	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331132146	I could start a major ideological debate on whether the state should get involved and how much it should get involved in banks and everything else. But I would also like to point out that there is a different time and place for such a debate, and that is not right now and right here. We are dealing here with four changes to the statute that the bank wants to make, and we can support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331132204	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331132209	Thank you. This is a legacy from the good, happy VLAK days, and in the Liberal Alliance we stand by both debt and inheritance, the positive and negative of the kind, and that is why, of course, we are also voting in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331132221	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see any rapporteur from the Alternative, and I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Industry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331132229	I was waiting for a press release from the Liberal Alliance's business rapporteur on the subject, but that was not the case here. But it is true that there has been work on this for a few years, but here we are. We must ensure that Denmark gets through the corona crisis in the best possible way, and this also means the months and years that come on the other side. Here will be among other things. The Nordic Investment Bank will play a major role because it is set in the world to lend to companies and public institutions in order to improve competitiveness and/or the environment. In this way, the Nordic Investment Bank is already an important part of securing the future in the Nordic and Baltic countries, and this is even more important now than it has ever been before. The Nordic Investment Bank is owned jointly by the five Nordic countries and by the three Baltic countries, and we have a joint responsibility to ensure that the bank has the best framework for helping new and existing customers and the customers are Danish, other Nordic and Baltic companies as safe through the corona crisis as possible. The amendments to the Statute presented to Parliament today play an important role in this context, because they provide the basis for the bank to have a more modern risk management, as has also been said earlier by rapporteurs. This will allow the bank to use its significant over-coverage to actively go out and support new and existing customers in the crisis. It is both with loans, but also with graces that may be necessary for a company to avoid firing employees or for an office property to postpone the rent payments for the tenants. That is why the proposal is being put on the programme today. The proposal itself means that in the Nordic countries too, the governors have the power to decide on the principles of capital and liquidity management. The Nordic Investment Bank must, of course, be governed in accordance with the same proper principles as those of responsible banking. This applies, among other things, to: in relation to the introduction of a new model for managing capital and liquidity in the Nordic Investment Bank, which covers all risks within the Bank, and this applies to the winding-up of two special loan programmes for projects outside the Member States and environmental investments in neighbouring countries, which are instead made part of the general business of the Nordic Investment Bank. This means, among other things, that future losses on loans are initially covered by the Nordic Investment Bank and not by the owner countries directly. It is also important to emphasise that the proposal does not cost Denmark any new money. The amendment of the statutes entails adjustments and, in fact, a slight reduction in the guarantees granted by Denmark to the Nordic Investment Bank. And the bank will continue to be managed in order to maintain the strongest possible rating, the so-called triple-A rating. Allowing the Nordic Investment Bank to run banking on the basis of a modern form and risk management is important. I and we know that it will allow us to use the bank's considerable over-coverage to actively go out and support new and existing customers here during the crisis; we know that the Nordic Investment Bank has extensive experience with investments in green conversion in the Nordic and Baltic countries, and this is urgently needed in these times; and finally we know that the changes in the statutes will give the bank more muscle to finance, among other things. Green projects without, as I said, costing Denmark new money and without affecting the credit rating of the bank. These are all elements that we urgently need right now and that we will need even more in the coming months and years. That is why we are dealing urgently with the change today so that we do not prevent the bank from making the investments that can help stimulate the Nordic and Baltic economies and mitigate the consequences of the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331132713	Thank you, Minister. There are no requests for brief comments to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331132726	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting will be held today at 1 p.m. 4 p.m. with second reading of L 158.
