ParlaMint-DK_20200313120001	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313120007	The items listed as No. 1 and 2 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313120035	That opens the debate. Sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313120047	Thank you for the floor, President. Particularly serious events, challenges, situations and threats require special political efforts and actions. With the threat posed by the corona virus, Covid-19, aimed at the health and well-being of all of us, aimed at our society and community and directed at employees and companies in the labour market, we are today in the Folketing in a very special and challenging situation. That is why we have an unusual bill aimed at the country's companies and employees, our labour market, with special and targeted measures................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Today, we in the Danish Parliament will give an important helping hand to our many good companies, where skilled and hardworking business owners and employees work hard every day, so that we in Denmark are at the top of the many different industries in the labour market, that we have quality in production and services, that we have a large export and a large domestic market, and that jobs, growth and welfare are created in Denmark. What we do with this proposal and with the postponement of a number of payment deadlines is that we relieve the pressure on Danish companies' liquidity. This will create a liquidity buffer for companies. The company's payment deadlines for A-tax and labour market contributions are extended for three monthly instalments, thus increasing liquidity by up to 90 billion. kr. for 4 months. In addition, an extension is proposed for the large companies' VAT payments for three monthly instalments by 30 days. Finally, it proposes a temporary increase in the ceiling for the amount that companies may have on the tax account without any payment being made. Companies today can have a maximum of DKK 200,000. It is proposed that the ceiling should be raised to 10 million ECU in the tax account without any payment being made to companies and in order to achieve some mitigation of the negative effects which the proposed payment deadlines may trigger in the form of negative interest rates. kr. The overall impact of these measures and delays will be so that companies get 125 billion. kr. In addition, companies can themselves reduce their corporate tax payments if they expect falling profits. 125 billion kr. is a lot of money, and this is an important and necessary effort. The Corona press is pushing companies, and right now a struggle is being fought to keep the wheels going and keep the crisis at its door. If our companies stop, Denmark stops. At the same time, it is also important to tell the Danes out there that the increased liquidity for the companies of 125 billion. kr. does not affect the public welfare budget and therefore does not cost society 125 billion. kr. The cost to society is a lower cost of interest, and once things are normalized and the health threat has been combated, payment deadlines are also normalized, similar to the way the tool was used in the financial crisis, which then slowly returned to the general situation. But with the bill here we are protecting companies and employees who work in companies. For them, for all of us, the bill is of great benefit and, of course, the Social Democratic Party fully supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313120449	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313120452	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I also think that these are good initiatives in the draft law, so I would really just like to ask the Socialist rapporteur about an additional initiative that might be taken. For part of the bill is that you can postpone the payment of the A tax, but you cannot postpone the payment of the B tax. And there are a lot of typical small businessmen, for example. be taxi hauliers who are self-employed who pay B-tax on an ongoing basis, and this will not be deferred. So I would actually just like to hear what the position of the Social Democratic Party is, in relation to whether you do not agree that it is a good idea that you also provide an opportunity to postpone the payment of B tax in order to hold a hand under many of the smaller entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313120531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313120532	Thank you for the question, which I think is quite relevant. The bill here gives Danish companies a significant boost in cash flow; all Danish companies have both small, medium and large companies. It is, of course, absolutely essential that we have the situation under full control over the coming weeks in relation to what is happening in the labour market. And there may well be such a need for us to take further action. And, of course, the government is prepared to do so, and the Social Democratic Party is prepared to do so. So let us wait and see and then in the first place take a position on the proposals that lie here and which I think are really important and absolutely necessary and good proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313120616	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313120618	I fully agree that these are good and important proposals that have already been written into the draft law, but I did not fully understand the answer. In other words, will the Socialists not be involved in making it so that we can also postpone the payment of B-tax? For it is typically the very small businesses that benefit from it. So, as I said, it is good action that is there. But why not make it so that the possibility is also there to postpone the payment of the B tax? For taxi drivers in particular have been severely affected; their turnover has fallen to almost half in a few days.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313120648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313120649	I think we should say that what we are discussing here is this package and that these are important measures. And, as the rapporteur has said, further steps may be taken, for example what is mentioned in relation to small businesses, about the payment of B-tax. We in the government and in the Social Democratic Party are in close contact with companies, with industry and with the social partners, and the various efforts here will be assessed and discussed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313120715	Thank you, sir. Troels Ravn. Then we move on to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313120728	Thank you for the floor. It is a difficult time in Denmark. The Corona virus has high human costs, which we must try to reduce as much as possible. However, they are not the ones about which this bill is about. This bill is about the derived effects of the disease. It is about ensuring that there are also jobs for the Danes when the Danes return after the corona crisis. Putting Denmark on standby for 14 days is not without cost for Danish companies, just as the ban on large assemblies also has consequences for organizers, concert venues, hotels, restaurants and all those who deliver to them. If we do not take care of our businesses, many jobs will disappear as a result of this health crisis, and therefore it is also important that we act on it. That is why the Left is in favour of doing something for the companies, as the government is also proposing here. The government proposes three different tax measures. Firstly, it is proposed to extend the payment periods for A-tax and labour market contributions, so that from April to June there will be a carry-over of up to four months. Secondly, the government proposes to extend the period of settlement of VAT by one month for the monthly settlers. It should be borne in mind that only the large companies are responsible for the monthly settlers. Thirdly, the tax account limit is raised from DKK 200,000. to 10 million kr., and this is to ensure that companies do not have to deal equally with negative interest rates in the bank. Let me say straight away that the Left supports the measures, but we would like the government to be more ambitious. It is important that we show due care so that we can continue to secure jobs for the Danes, also on the other hand that this crisis, and therefore we would like the government to take even more drastic action. It could, for example, be done. In addition, it could also be focused on the fact that the March rate, which will be paid here on 20 March, could be pushed to a month free of payment, and also on the next payment of A tax, not from March to April, but from January to February, which will be paid in a few days. Perhaps we could include the rate that is just above, so we are helping those companies that already have liquidity problems. In relation to the extension of the settlement period for VAT, this applies only to large companies. Here we would like to see small businesses also secured. I understand from the Minister that the Minister is open to this possibility, but the Left would like it to be added before the third reading of the bill. In addition, there are challenges in relation to whether companies actually have the opportunity to avail themselves of this option without penal liability as a result of creditor liability. It should be drilled and resolved so that all companies have the opportunity to benefit from this solution. As far as the increase in the tax account is concerned, it is certainly positive to raise the ceiling, but we would like to see the ceiling raised further or considered removing it altogether. Some companies pay more than 10 million. kr. in VAT and A tax, and therefore it might be appropriate to consider whether this amount should not be increased further or whether the ceiling should be removed altogether. In addition, this aid package is quite short-lived. The economic consequences of this corona disease are hardly over on the other side of the summer holiday, and therefore there is concern about what will happen next. The bill here is based on the inspiration of a legislative proposal, which was a package of assistance in connection with the 2009 financial crisis, but at that time the aid package had longer duration. Why will the government not give as long a term to this bill as it did during the financial crisis? This also has serious consequences for Danish business and Danish jobs. Finally, the government should consider stopping some of the tax increases imposed by the government on Danish companies. The government, for example, has... decided to introduce a registration fee on aircraft. In view of the fact that the aviation industry is hit hard by the derived effects of corona, it may not be the right time to impose additional taxes on this industry. There is also a signal value in imposing additional charges on the aviation industry at a time when they are having a really difficult time. Another example is the tax on disposable services, which is not even climate-friendly. Nor is it a beneficial tax to impose the Danish companies right now. It is a tax which was also passed on to the service industries, which is currently bleeding. On the whole, this demonstrates the weakness of the government's Finance Act, where the government introduced substantially higher taxes and taxes. It just makes Danish companies more vulnerable to crises like the one we are in now. This will have an impact on Danish jobs. It is important that we take care of Denmark. We must not put Danish jobs at risk now. Many industries are already hard hit by the crisis, and therefore the government should take more initiatives to help companies and thus secure the Danes' jobs in these serious times. This aid package only helps small businesses to a very limited extent, and so we would like to know whether the government will consider further initiatives to help small businesses. Let me sum up and say that the Left, of course, supports the bill. We want to take care of Denmark and ensure that the Danes still have their jobs after this crisis. That is why we would also like the government to have been more ambitious and, at least, to have stopped the tax increases that they have imposed on companies in recent times. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313121311	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313121319	The reason for this bill is quite serious, because it is that we have this corona virus that is raging not only in the world, but also in Europe and Denmark. This is, of course, primarily a health crisis, but the reason why we are standing here today is quite serious, because it affects a number of companies, of course, very hard because their turnover may have halved or disappeared overnight. This is something that could potentially throw Denmark into an economic crisis. That is why I think it is very good that there are a number of initiatives in this legislative proposal which can help to hold hands under some of these companies. But the question is also whether that is enough or whether we should not take any more initiatives now before it is too late. Well, I think it's better that, like in the health field, we might go a step too far to ensure that somebody doesn't go bankrupt because of this than that we come limping behind with a number of other initiatives. I think it is particularly important that we have a further focus on small businesses in particular. Overall, this bill is about strengthening the liquidity of companies. We think that is quite reasonable, that is to say that they will be allowed to settle their taxes later. It's not like they're gonna get out cheaper in taxes, but they're just gonna settle at a later stage. In concrete terms, however, I would say that only overall, because the other two rapporteurs went into detail with the extension of payment periods for A-tax and labour market contributions. We think that is a good initiative and also something that really wants to take some liquidity. The VAT payments made by large companies are also postponed, but only by large companies. And then there is a temporary increase in the ceiling for the amount that companies may have on the tax account, and it is to counter that that there are some who have problems with negative interest rates in the banks. These are all proposals which we think are quite reasonable, but we also have some suggestions on what we might look at further. We could start by looking at the VAT part. Because, as I mentioned, this initiative in the legislative proposal is only for large companies. Why not look at the medium-sized ones who have a 3-month settlement deadline? Could it not also be postponed to ensure that they were given better liquidity? I know that we all hope that we will be out of the crisis in a very short time, but it will take some time to restore the company's liquidity and restore sales. So I think we should also look at medium-sized enterprises. Then there are the very small ones who have six-month settlements and I actually think they have just paid, so there is still a good deadline. So it is not necessarily such a part of urgent legislation. Perhaps you could bear that in mind later on, but I also think that we need to have an increased focus on the possibility of a need in this area. Then there are the initiatives I mentioned in my question on B-tax. It is, of course, the case in the draft law that you can have your A-tax deferred, but not your current B-tax payment. And so there are an incredible number of small businesses, for example. Taxi trucker, who pays on a regular basis. I think it would be quite obvious that we also gave a hand in helping them by allowing them to postpone their B-tax payment. And you could, as the Left also mentioned, move it to one of these months free of charge. There are 2 months a year where there is no payment. You could start by moving the first instalment to, I think it's June that's free of charge. The subsequent rate could then be moved to the second month free of payment, so that in this way you actually find a good rhythm in it, and so there are no months when it suddenly doubles up. At any rate, I think it would be quite obvious that, as Parliament, we are all united in taking the further initiative, that we are also allowed to postpone B-tax, because it is precisely the very small operators who are typically going to benefit from it. The third initiative I would like to mention is the postponement of a number of taxes. I also thought it would be useful to look at the possibility of not postponing all taxes, but there are some taxes that hit vulnerable industries harder than others. For example, I have. received a request from a microbrewery, which does not sell very much beer in the retail trade, but typically sells to restaurants and hotels. And just as hotels and restaurants have lost their turnover virtually overnight, so have microbreweries. Could it not be considered, for example, that one should not think about it? Did the payment of the beer tax go out? There we could have a dialogue with the Minister and in committee afterwards on what kind of charges we think can also be deferred. I just think it would be obvious that we should also take this initiative if we could support a number of smaller companies by postponing their payment of taxes. But I can finish by saying, overall, that we support the bill. We think these are three good initiatives, but, as I said, we have some proposals that we would like to have a discussion on during committee work, if not it would be good that we also addressed those areas, especially with the emphasis on allowing the smaller operators who have been hard hit to get an extra hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313121805	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Kathrine Olldag from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313121815	Thank you very much, President. It is often in extreme situations when there is really something at stake that one can feel one's standing place and its basic values most. For what does it really matter in my own What is it that makes the most sense? Isn't this just the wish that we all make a difference to each other? That's what we can feel these days. In Danish society we feel our ability to look after each other and help manage through the crisis situation. And we're there for each other when it really matters. Meaning is also what many find by jumping into life as self-employed; out with the fixed monthly wage, and in with risk, hard work and lots of meaning. I am deeply grateful for all the Danes who choose to become independent entrepreneurs, and I am deeply grateful for the thousands of small, large and medium-sized enterprises that run their business from Denmark. You're holding up Denmark. Now it's our turn in the Folketing to keep you up too. Because in Denmark we help each other and come together through the crisis. That is why, of course, we support this aid package for the Danish business community. In addition to the elements mentioned, which have already been highlighted, it is crucial for the Radical Left that we also expose A taxes, labour market contributions and VAT to small and medium-sized enterprises. According to the reports we have received, the European Commission is ready to approve special State aid schemes in 24 hours. So the European Union is not standing in the way. Similarly, it is absolutely crucial that SMEs in particular are told that they have the opportunity to postpone their own B-tax payments. At least that's how we've been told in the Treasury that this is the case. I can see from the tax authorities' information page on the corona crisis that there is a lack of information on what can be done about the payment deadline for B tax that will occur on 20 March, that is to say in 7 days' time. And now that we are in the process of B-taxing, I would also like to say in advance that we would like to support the fact that the usual months free of payment for B-tax are being moved to, for example. This is the way to protect the liquidity of companies. In addition, it also makes sense to look at the displacement of payments of e.g. payroll fees. On the whole, we want, in line with the Danish People's Party and the Left, to hold more hands under small and medium-sized enterprises in that aid package. We are not quite ready to go so far as to detain the taxes we have adopted in the Finance Act. But we look forward to discussing all this in the next few days, because we are going to be busy. In other words, we are ready to help companies as much as we can. Because we have a joint responsibility to keep the Danish companies up so that they can continue to sustain Denmark in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313122123	Thank you to the rapporteur. A brief comment came from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313122129	When the rapporteur said that we are not prepared to delete the taxes that have been planned, I was reminded of: does the Radical Left not see this as a serious and deeply serious situation we are in right now? Does the Radical Left really believe that the economic situation and future that we are potentially looking into right now are for tax increases? Is the Radical Left's policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200313122157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313122158	We have, of course, voted in favour of the tax increases already decided on in the Finance Act and, as we assess it, it is not the tax increases that knock out the liquidity of companies that we are looking into and in which the picture is right now. These are minor tax increases, and the aid package that we will hopefully adopt on Tuesday will hold their hands responsibly, and of course this is a very serious situation. Nor do I believe that we in the Radical Left have expressed anything else at any time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313122233	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313122234	But a cost of DKK 1. for the business sector is now a cost of DKK 1. for business, no matter where it comes from. And it doesn't make sense to go with one hand to give with the other. There's administration at both ends of this. So it is fine that you want to make aid packages, but at the same time you should not take more money from the business community. Then you work against what you want to do with the aid packages.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313122301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313122302	I would like us to agree with this bill in the Parliamentary Chamber to hold our hands under the Danish economy and not to make block policy, where we are trying to start to mess up the decisions we have already taken in a financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313122320	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Carl Valentin of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313122330	Thank you. Corona not only affects our health system, our health and our ability to interact, it also affects our economy, our businesses and the work situation of many people. The fact that corona will have negative consequences cannot be avoided, but as representatives of the people we have the ultimate responsibility to ensure that the consequences are as small as possible. That is why we now come with a helping hand to those companies and workers who may be affected by economic problems as a result of the covid-19. Specifically, it is proposed that the payment periods of companies for A included tax and labour market contributions should be extended for three monthly instalments of payments for April, May and June by four months. We do this in order to strengthen the liquidity of companies etc. It is also proposed that the payment deadline for large companies' VAT payments be extended for three monthly instalments and this is payments for March, April and May by 30 days. And it is also to strengthen liquidity. As several speakers have said, a temporary increase in the ceiling for the amount that companies may have on the tax account without any payment being made is also proposed. This is increased to 10 million. kr. And we are doing so in order to reduce the negative effects that the proposed payment deadlines may trigger in the form of negative interest rates. The initiatives here are responsible and do not give companies tax rebates, but simply shift payment, and we in the Socialist People's Party think this is a sensible policy. And although considerations about the liquidity of companies may seem to be eliminating for many people, it is actually something that can affect many people's everyday lives. It is important that employees are not sacked as a result of economic problems in our companies; it is important that companies can afford to pay wages to people; and it is in the general public interest that we ensure that companies can stay above water and that various shops etc. continue to be open, even in this situation. Of course, postponing some payments may cost us a little, for example. if some companies go bankrupt and never get paid what we expected, but we estimate that it could be far more expensive not to, as a barn could result in even more bankruptcies and problems in our companies. Thank you to the tax minister and the many employees in the tax administration for a good process in a difficult time. The Socialist People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313122559	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313122602	I would also like to thank you first for your speech. I think it's good that we can stand together on such a bill. However, I would just like to hear from the SF rapporteur about the part that we are several rapporteurs who have mentioned, namely about B-tax. What are SF's thoughts on that? Could it not be a good idea to have the opportunity to postpone paying B-tax as well? It will typically be the smaller traders, but it may also be consulting companies, it may be musicians, taxi drivers or physiotherapists, or whatever it may be. But could it not be a good idea that we should also keep our hands under their finances by giving them an opportunity to postpone payment of B-tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20200313122638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313122639	I do not have an overview of the precise consequences of such a model, but I think it is appropriate to talk about the smaller operators, and I think it makes sense to discuss it afterwards in the course of the treatment we need to get going.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313122650	Thank you. I do not think there are any more brief comments, so we would like to thank Mr Beazley. Carl Valentin. Then it's mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313122701	We are in a serious situation, not least for our elderly and vulnerable. We are in a situation where people are losing their jobs and we are also in a situation where companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, need a helping hand. It is therefore also a good thing that the government is now acting quickly with this bill and ensuring that there is a better opportunity for companies to have the necessary liquidity at their disposal. However, before commenting on the content of this bill, I also need to comment on the government's overall approach to the question of how companies in our country should be helped. Yesterday a press conference was held with the government and I have to say that I think it seems a little absurd that a billion-dollar guarantee is being given that allows banks to use their financial padding in the form of the so-called countercyclical capital buffer for dividends to shareholders, because in practice that is what happens when billion-dollar guarantees are given, while not requiring banks to stop paying dividends to shareholders. Because the banks seem to have no plans to stop billion-dollar dividends being paid out to shareholders. The banks are now running out of money because they have to save jobs, and then it is not possible for part of this money to be used to keep the banks partying for shareholders by paying out billions of dividends. We have a countercyclical buffer, which consists of a total of 17 billion. kr., and now that it is released, this means that banks will be able to borrow 200 billion. kr. extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra I'm here with the call for a general meeting at Danske Bank in 4 days' time. If you turn on page 2, you can see that when you're done drinking coffee from 2:00 a.m. 14, and the general meeting starts at 2:00 a.m. 15, Danske Bank simply proposes that dividends be paid to shareholders of 7.3 billion. kr. So with one hand you give the banks liquidity to save our businesses, but with the other hand they use the same banks the increased liquidity to also hold hands under the billion-dollar dividend they have had for several years. It was not I must admit that I am also surprised that the government has not secured and made an agreement with the banks that they should stop paying dividends when they get a billion guarantee and the right to use the countercyclical capital buffer. I just don't get it. This is actually going to be even more grotesque, because if this corona crisis is going to turn into a really big economic crisis, then perhaps we will be in a situation in a few weeks' time when the banks are coming begging for bank packages, just as they did last, and will again have taxpayers pay, shortly after they have just paid out billions of dividends at their general meetings. That just doesn't make any sense. In the Enhedslisten, we think it is reasonable to impose counter-claims on the banks. If, for example, they do: At the same time, there must be a stop to dividends paid to shareholders at the forthcoming general meetings, as we see just in the spring of these days. Also boss bonuses and increases in boss wages should be cancelled. So we must all now lift not only the unemployed, not only the small businesses, who are in trouble, but also the banks and large companies. I think a lot of people agree with Enhedslisten in that. In relation to the bill itself, the good, sensible and reasonable proposal that other rapporteurs have presented and Enhedslisten can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313123125	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we move on to Mrs Birgitte Bergman from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313123135	Conservatives naturally support the proposal, which is a helping hand to Danish business in a serious situation. We want to avoid a wave of bankruptcies and layoffs in the coming period when economic activity is stalled because of the corona virus. At a time when we stand together by keeping our distance, many companies and especially the parts of the Danish business community we are gathering together about are suffering. I am thinking of restaurants, cultural institutions and the like. And when Europe's travel guides go into orange and red, tourism suffers. The whole high season goes for the tourist industry and there is no prospect that they will have income again for a long time. When we stay home, there's less business going on. It means less money in the box, and it's gonna be hard to pay. With a growing number of infected people and the proper and wise recommendations of the authorities to stay at home, an extraordinary and difficult situation arises. There is a prospect of massive firing rounds soon if we do not throw a rescue crane to the Danish business community. That is why we are implementing this legislation, and that is why we are calling for further cooperation in the Folketing on initiatives extending beyond, for example, the postponement of tax. We are pleased that we can work together to help small and medium-sized enterprises as well. More initiatives will be needed here, I am sure. I know that companies are working hard to ensure employees' safety and jobs, but they cannot do so alone. We see this bill as one of several handrails that are needed if we are to secure as many Danes as possible against losing their jobs. Conservatives, of course, support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313123337	Thank you. There are no brief comments. That's why it's sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313123357	We are looking into a threatening economic crisis. Yesterday we adopted far-reaching legislation to protect society from further spread of the corona virus. The government has chosen to shut down large parts of the public sector for public health reasons, and interventions also extend far into the private sector. Some industries will experience it in practice as a shutdown, and the corona crisis will cost companies their lives. This is going to cost many companies a large part of their equity capital. This will make a great many companies incredibly vulnerable in the coming time, also on the other side of the corona virus. Turnover falls and employees have to be made redundant and liquidity stretched to the limit. So it's not a nice view that we look into. The bill we are discussing today has been tabled to mitigate some of the negative consequences; some of the negative consequences of yesterday's intervention and from the global economic downturn we are looking into. New citizens support the proposal to increase the credit period for the payment of A tax and VAT, as proposed. Improving liquidity is a good thing, but we also point out at the same time that it is far from sufficient. We can do more, and we need to do more to support the independent operators and businesses and their employees in the time that comes. We need to be more proactive in keeping the economy going. We must keep the Danes in employment and private consumption must be maintained. Especially in relation to small businesses, I find it offensive that, because of EU legislation, we obviously cannot do more about credit time. It cannot be right that some rigid EU rules should stand in the way of us in the Folketing being able to help small self-employed businesses, and certainly not in a situation where we can see that one EU country after another is shutting down. I would urge the government to make contact with the European Commission and get it fixed. Something else that the government should put on standby are the planned expensive interventions and charges that are being worked out in the Climate Ministry to send out to the Danes and Danish companies. We cannot reasonably plan to increase taxes and introduce new climate taxes, reductions in agricultural production, etc., while at the same time society is facing a crisis that threatens to send lots of people into unemployment and send lots of businesses towards bankruptcy. Now we have to deal with the corona crisis, and then we have to ensure the prosperity and jobs of the Danes. Then you can resume work on your so-called climate action plans and the useless climate taxes. Last but not least, I would like to raise a red flag, and I would like to ask the Minister during the committee's work to explain the loss to the Treasury of an extension of credit time. It is not really clear from the comments in the draft law, but it must be clear that some of the companies which are now allowed to postpone payment will not be able to pay double in when the deadline expires. And when we push 125 billion. kr., there will also be some of those who will be lost. We must deal with this now, so that the money is not spent in another ministry, because it may be lacking. With these comments, I should like to say that, of course, new citizens support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313123806	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313123814	A number of private companies are hit hard by the outbreak of corona in the world and in Denmark. In the first place, it is, of course, particularly those companies where turnover goes down, almost zero. We're talking about the hotel business, we're talking about the aviation business, we're talking about the taxi business, and so on. They feel that there is currently no demand for their products. Other companies experience that they may find it difficult to deliver on the demand that remains because their employees are challenged and it is not wise to ask employees to get into work. Some of them may work from home with lower efficiency. So private companies are being hit right now. They do, among other things. because they have to pay to the public, even if the government does not deliver. So, companies pay a high tax and high taxes in Denmark with the message: Yes, yes, but in return your employees can have the children cared for cheaply and your employees are trained. They don't do that at the moment. The children are not taken care of cheaply, the employees are not trained, and yet they have to pay taxes. The big difference between the private sector and the public sector is that when the private sector does not deliver to the customers, the private sector does not receive any money either, but when the public sector does not deliver to the citizens, the public sector will still have money. Very generously, the government has decided that you can wait to pay you can't avoid paying, even if you don't get the benefits from the government, but you can wait to pay. That is the least you can demand, that is to say, that you can wait until the public service is provided again. We should, in such situations and also in situations where the public sector is closed down by strikes and conflicts and blockades etc., perhaps have some fixed and permanent regime in which citizens simply do not pay when the service is not provided from the public sector. Until we have such a system, we have to settle for the possibility of postponing the payment of taxes and taxes, and there the government has then tried to knit something together somewhat incomplete. We would have liked to have done more for that. It has been pointed out by other rapporteurs that the possibility of postponing the payment of B-tax should also be part of the legislative proposal. It has also been pointed out that only the larger companies will be able to postpone payment of VAT. It could be more companies. We want that too. So we hope that before the third reading of this bill we can get the government to agree that this is not good enough; more is needed. This must be the prerequisite for this to be a proper legislative proposal, in other words for more to come, so that companies which do not have to pay for a service they do not receive can at least postpone paying something more than that contained in the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313124138	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313124147	Thank you for that, President, and thank you very much for it, one might well say very positive reception of the proposal, which I really welcome. I will return to the various comments that have been made on this. The reason why I am really happy about this is, of course, as several people have already said, that not only is the situation we have in extraordinary circumstances very serious, but the situation also develops hour by hour and hour by hour is also increasing the challenges we face. That is why it is a very special situation. We have a responsibility to look after each other, but also to look after our society. We must show the necessary cohesion and we must take responsibility for the community by acting properly and following the guidelines that are being set out. At the same time, however, we must also ensure that we have a welfare society that can be funded and a Danish business community that can live on in situations like this. Therefore, the time at which we are now is the time when we must show both action and solidarity in this regard. We've been standing here before. I remember standing here in 2008 and 2009 spending night and day making bank packages where we guaranteed thousands of billions of dollars to the financial sector. It was very serious. What I was happy about at the time, and what I am pleased about here today, is that there is such a large and broad responsibility in the Folketing that in less than 45 minutes you can handle quite large payments and credits to the Danish business community. It is very good and it is necessary because, as I said, the global economy is affected. The same is true of Danish economy. And we have to show that we are capable of dealing with issues like these. We must show that we are also able to act decisively and thus hold our hands under Danish economy and Danish employees. I think that is basically what the Danes expect of us here today. We are doing this by making this proposal, and we are doing it by ensuring that it can be adopted quickly. So I would also like to thank the Danish Parliament for having been able to do so. There is no doubt that the outbreak of the corona virus will affect the global economy, which is now on its way down rapidly. As I said, Denmark is also affected. This is why we need to keep our hands on the interests of both Danish business and Danish employees, so that we can ensure that the liquidity of Danish companies can also be improved. This is a massive aid to business, which improves business liquidity by a total of 125 billion. kr. Business organisations have indeed welcomed the proposed initiatives in this proposal. In concrete terms, the proposal is to provide companies with additional liquidity by temporarily extending business payment deadlines for included A tax and labour market contributions as well as VAT payments. This is a very large cash injection for companies. For example: We are relaxing the payment deadlines for A tax and labour market contributions considerably faster than happened in the wake of the financial crisis back in 2009, which I mentioned earlier. First of all, we propose to extend the payment deadlines for companies for included A tax and labour market contributions for April, May and June. This will give companies a large increase in their liquidity. With the proposal to extend the payment deadline for these three monthly instalments by four months, just with this initiative an extra 90 billion will be added. kr. available to business for 4 months. What might be an example? It could be a small restaurant with 15 employees. They typically calculate A-tax and labour market contributions for approx. $15,000. per month. This will give them a longer payment deadline for over 400,000 kroner. Secondly, we are also proposing to extend the payment deadline for large companies for the three monthly instalments for 30 days. This means that, with this proposal, just a total of some 35 billion will be made available. kr. available in additional liquidity for 1 month. What could that mean for a specific company? For example, it could be a large hotel chain with a turnover of 250 million. kr. They typically calculate VAT for approx. 1.7 million kr. per This proposal will give them a longer period of payment. We are currently examining this, because there are several people who have mentioned the framework for small and medium-sized enterprises, and we have also written in the draft law on whether we can also relax the payment conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises, which already have a payment deadline of 2 months, which is the maximum payment deadline within the framework of the common EU rules on VAT payments, which we are also subject to. In addition, it should also be borne in mind that when it comes to small and medium-sized enterprises, the next payment deadline for small enterprises is not until 1 September, i.e. this autumn, and for medium-sized enterprises it is 2 June here in 2020, so it is 1 September for small enterprises, and for medium-sized enterprises it is 2 June 2020. We look at it, but what is the challenge is, among other things. the framework to which we are subject in relation to EU rules, i.e. the common VAT rules. In addition to that, as I said, we are also increasing the ceiling for the so-called tax account. It is clear that now that we improve the payment conditions for companies, and that is the point here: companies that actually have liquidity in profits can get into a mess. This is because companies' deposits in banks may increase when the payment deadline is postponed, and since the banks currently typically charge negative interest rates of minus 0.75%. In the case of interest rates on deposits held by undertakings, firms may incur higher interest costs. Thirdly, as I have said, this is why we are proposing a significant increase in the tax ceiling from the current DKK 200 000. per EUR 10 million for the operation; kr. during the period of deferred payment deadlines. As I have said, this is to take account of companies which do not have liquidity problems and which wish to avoid negative interest rates on their bank deposits. They can, as it were, put money in with us and avoid the negative interest rate on the banks. With such a large increase in the ceiling, most companies can make payments of A-tax and labour market contributions as well as VAT in the tax account as usual and, as far as possible, avoid higher bank deposits and increased interest costs as a result of what we see in the banks right now, i.e. the negative interest rates. As I have said, we have an extraordinary situation in which I think it is important that we stick together here in the Folketing and, of course, I hope for broad support for the proposal from the parliamentary parties. I think it is quite fair that we have a broader discussion about what else needs to be done, but I would like to stress that it is about getting this through as soon as possible so that it can work now. In addition to the proposal itself, it is also about the fact that we can hopefully agree in a broad majority to send a very clear signal to the markets, as will be the case here. I think that is important, and I think it is important that we also have this in mind. We are in close, daily dialogue with the Danish business community about what could otherwise be of challenges as a result of the very big and serious crisis that Danish business is facing now. I do not wish to reject any action, but simply remind you that what we are discussing here is a very big step which needs to be taken as quickly as possible and formulated with a clear and clear voice, hopefully from a united Parliament. So we're following developments very closely. We will by no means deny that this is not the last. New initiatives were presented yesterday. There's a lot more coming. This may stem from the very close dialogue that the government has with Danish industry in the very serious situation that the country has unfortunately brought into being. Finally, I would just like to turn a few of the initiatives that have been, in addition to expressing my thanks for the very fine debate and support for the proposal. As I have said, issues have been raised about the VAT payments made by small and medium-sized enterprises. That is something we are looking at, and we have already said so in the draft law. There are some EU legal challenges that we need to look at. Then there is the question of B-tax. In other words, if you do not earn money today and pay B-tax, you can already change your advance statement and thus postpone interest on B-tax. That can already be done today. If there are other things we need to look at, we will look at them without a doubt about it. But today it is actually already possible to change the payments for B-tax. One of the things we're looking at is those months of pay-free. Let's take a look. We are completely open to that. I just think that you should remember that some of the systems that we have in the IRS are not just such a single button that you go and press, and then it's all going to work. This, in any case, can be a bit of a challenge in the case of previous government-supporting parties. But we look at it and are, of course, ready to see if there is a need for more. I think that is it, and I believe and hope, as I said, that we can get along, and I am listening to the hope that it can be a united Parliament which can send out a very, very clear signal to the markets and the global economy that a united Parliament is united in holding hands under Danish business in a very difficult situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313125259	Mr President, there is one brief comment I should like to make. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313125302	Thank you for that and thank the Minister for bringing forward this bill. I agree that it is incredibly important that there is broad support, and there are all the parties in the Danish Parliament supporting this. But I am also listening to the fact that there is a relatively broad desire for you to have a look at the B tax. We are also a few parties who would like to see the charges perhaps looked at. I would just like to know whether the Minister could also support this if we could reach a broad consensus on some of those points. After all, there is no political disagreement as to whether we should hold our hands under Danish industry, but these are just some additional initiatives that could support the bill that the government has put forward very well. So I would like to know whether the Minister will not also be willing to look at whether some of the other taxes, which are still to be paid, could be deferred.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313125345	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313125346	As I said, we are looking at the issue of VAT for both small and medium-sized enterprises. I think it is worthwhile to have small businesses paying only next time on 1 September. But we are looking at it, and so, I have no interest in making this a major political debate on fiscal policy and other matters. This is basically about this being important, it's big, and it can be some of the things that can stabilize the situation. There may be more to it. Yesterday the government presented another package that can help send a clear and clear signal to the global economy that we in Denmark are united in holding hands under Danish business and the interests of Danish employees. If there are other wishes, yes, then we take them. It just doesn't really have anything to do with this proposal, which is basically about providing liquidity now and here. If you listen to the companies that are present in the media, it will act, among other things. the need for liquidity. And that's what we're gonna do here. So it's just a wish on my part to say that we can easily take this debate, but this is about getting this going as soon as possible, hopefully and with a broad consensus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313125453	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313125454	I fully agree, and I am not asking the question either to create some political disagreement or to start some kind of political struggle. It is actually just too quiet to help the many companies that are out there. And I think we could agree on that. Well, I have, for example. received enquiries from breweries, and it could be others from the chain after the hotels and restaurants that we agree have been hit. And they are also affected by, among others. to pay beer tax. And there may be other industries that sit in similar situations. I think it is a relatively good tool and also an easy tool and something that we can do quickly; we can do it together. So do I agree with the view that we should get this through, but could we not do a little more for some of the industries that are really hard hit? I hope we could stand together on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313125539	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313125540	I will not reject any discussion. What I, as Minister of Taxation, have an interest in is that this proposal comes through as soon as possible, so that we get a clear and unambiguous signal from the Danish Parliament that we in no way intend to flinch when it comes to creating the basis for us to safeguard Danish business and the interests of Danish employees. That's what this is about. Then it is clear that there are other discussions I would like to take them too, but here it is about this. This is very important.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313125606	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313125607	First of all, I would like to congratulate the government on making an effort with regard to the tax sector. That is absolutely necessary at this stage; we fully agree with the government on that. Of course, we would have liked it to have been even more ambitious. I was looking into the 2009 bill, no. L 154. At that time, A tax and labour market contributions were dropped by 1⁄2 years, and in this bill, as far as I understand, it is 4 months. Therefore, I would like the Minister to clarify why the same length of this has not been chosen when it has been chosen to draw inspiration from the financial crisis in 2009.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313125645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313125647	Now I was actually helping to make the package that is asked for me to be in here for many years. This is serious, but it was the juices then too, and you can always discuss the levels. We have considered that this is what is needed here and now, and I assume that with the dialogue that is also going on with the political parties and also elsewhere other than here, we will have to look at it if we need it. However, this is a very large-scale handout and, as Mrs Louise Schack Elholm would have seen, if she had read a little more of the previous proposal back from the financial crisis, it will come sooner than it did back in 2009, when we were almost three quarters of a year into the crisis itself before this came. I think the pace of this is also a very clear signal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313125751	Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313125752	Indeed, pace has a significance, and I think that this may be a slightly more visible crisis than the financial crisis was, in that we can see that Denmark has entered a state of emergency. After all, we were not in the financial crisis. I am still pleased that the government is doing so. I would have liked to have been more ambitious. If it is that the government is going to follow this continuously, when can we expect to hear something again about whether to extend it further? For four months you run until you do not really have a new period in the Folketing again. Are we going to meet in the summer break and discuss this, or when are we going to take it up again, so we're sure we're gonna have to deal with this in time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200313125830	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313125831	As you can see, and as I understand, there has also been a promise in the discussions that have taken place with the party leaders, there is also a sunset clause in this bill. That is why we are going to deal with this again formally, but it is clear that this whole discussion and the situation for the country is so serious that in the discussions I know there are between our party leaders and in other contexts, I clearly sense that this development is being kept under constant review. I do not think there is any reason to neglect this in any way. It is a huge initiative, it comes quickly and it is some of what the business community has asked for, and that is of course why they support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313125913	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313125914	Fortunately, all parties support this, so there's no need to spend more time on it. But I would like to ask whether it is the opinion of the government that we are at a time when taxes and tax increases are the right medicine. Isn't there a need for us to stop now? Is the economic situation conducive to tax and tax increases? Is it not estimated that the situation is more difficult than that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200313125946	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313125947	I do not know where you can get the impression that the government should not look at this with the utmost seriousness. That is why I simply do not understand the question. This is basically about the government taking this unusually seriously. It is an initiative of a caliber that comes more quickly and therefore also with greater effect than what we saw during the financial crisis. This is something that the Danish business community also wants and is very satisfied with, because it can help to hold hands under, among other things. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for his excellent report. kr. It is clear, then, that the economic policy of any government is, of course, organized according to the map we see at first sight, but also to a great extent to the terrain on which we are going. That is why it is clear that it is also recognised and taken into account, but I do not think that there is any reason to neglect the seriousness of the way in which the government tackles this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313130053	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313130056	Now the Minister spent most of the time discussing this proposal on which we all agree. I urge you to talk your way into the future. For you give support crowns and help with liquidity with one hand, but with the other hand you raise the level of spending for companies. And that does not make sense in the situation we are in. We just encourage and hope that the government makes a stop to the taxes and charges and then we will heartily support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313130128	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313130132	Thank you for your support for the proposal. I sincerely welcome the fact that it can be adopted almost with, I understand, agreement in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313130137	Anne Honoré Østergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313130140	I would also like to begin by congratulating the Minister on the speed with which this proposal has come up. We in the Left are very, very happy about that. I understand that the Minister is willing to move the VAT deadlines, including for small and medium-sized enterprises, but that we need to hear a little more from the European Union. That is why I would like to hear: can we get an answer from the European Union before the submission of the report?
ParlaMint-DK_20200313130211	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313130213	As I said, we are looking at it, and it is something a little more technical than that, but that is one of the things we are looking at. We are also looking at the question of B-tax. And the Danish Parliament will be dealing with its committee next week, so that is something we can also turn around there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313130228	Thank you. I do not see that there are any more brief comments. Yes, there is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313130236	So what I hear the Minister say is that this is something he works on day and night. I mean, I think that the European Union must almost understand now that we are in a crisis; it is not only Denmark that is facing this problem. So how realistic is it that we're gonna see something in a minute?
ParlaMint-DK_20200313130254	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313130257	The questioner is one hundred percent right that the Minister is working day and night at the moment. He is also doing so by getting this bill safely in port, and I hope that a united Parliament will support it. It will be a strong signal from the Folketing, not least in the markets that need to see that there is powerful political action behind such an important initiative as this one from a united Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313130323	Thank you for that to the Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313130346	The debate is open. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313130353	Thank you for that, President. When you stand and listen to all the speeches that are being made here on the platform and here in the Chamber right now, you can hear that everyone, whatever party they come from, takes this very seriously. It is a very difficult situation that our country is in at the moment. You can clearly hear that when you sit and listen to the speakers. It's a time when our most important task is to take care of each other and try to get through this together and get out on the other side as well as at all...
ParlaMint-DK_20200313130429	Wait a minute. I have to say to those who are talking that the tax negotiations are over in the Parliamentary Chamber they are referred to the committee work. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313130439	Thank you so much. We must get out as well on one side as possible. This requires some of the Danes, the companies, the employees, the relatives. We all need to move closer together, and I do not mean physically there, of course, because we must not, but we must help each other and do what is necessary. Therefore, there can also be more action from the government, which of course takes this very seriously and must follow it from minute to minute. I must say that I am extremely pleased that all the parties agree on this and that we in the Danish Parliament are showing the way and that we are also showing that we are united in this situation. Our major task now is to ensure that as few people as possible are infected and that companies therefore send people home where necessary. However, it is also important that the companies that are hit hard because their employees are infected by the corona virus or have been with others who are infected should not turn the key and shut down. It is super important for us that companies, when all this is over, are ready to receive the individual employee again, that the job is ready and that Denmark should continue in as high a gear as possible. That is why the government is also making this proposal, which means that employers can receive sickness benefit from the first day of absence for all those who are infected or for those who are at home in quarantine if they suspect that they may be infected. Whether this is enough, of course, nobody knows, but it is important that we look after each other and that we look after our jobs, and that is why we have to follow this closely from minute to minute. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313130620	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Morten Dahlin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313130637	As is unfortunately clear to everyone, Denmark is in the middle of a serious and critical situation. The Corona virus has spread at lightning speed and now affects all parts of Danish society. This is deeply serious, and all of us in here at Christiansborg should take the situation seriously. The efforts we are making here at Christiansborg must, of course, primarily be about saving lives and reducing insecurity. That is why yesterday the Left also supported the health bill, which provided the authorities with a number of necessary tools in the fight against corona. But there is also a different perspective, and that is what the draft law is all about today, namely how we ensure that the least possible Danes lose their jobs. For even when it comes to the labour market, the situation is seriously serious. Companies, self-employed and trade unions from all over Denmark report a dramatic decline in turnover and activity. The first employees have already been fired and the first small self-employed are soon forced to turn the key. That is why we must do something on the part of Christiansborg. For all of us who have seen what a lightcase can do to a family, know that we must do everything in our power to ensure that as few as possible will lose their jobs. We must make our own way that Denmark makes it through the corona with its skin on its nose and with as few human costs as possible. It is important to stress that these aid initiatives are not about helping some rich financial princes in glass and steel towers. This is about helping ordinary hardworking Danes who get up in the morning and go to work. It is for their sake that we must act; it is for their sake that we must take responsibility. The draft law we are discussing today basically helps in two areas. Firstly, the bill will provide employers with state reimbursement on the first day of sickness for those who are infected or in quarantine because of corona. Secondly, the proposal allows selfemployed persons to receive sickness benefit from the first day of absence instead of after the normal self-employed period of two weeks. These are basically sensible and imperative proposals, which the Left naturally supports. However, we also have some questions that we need to clarify. The first question is about the timetable. The Government has proposed that these special schemes should only apply until 1 January 2021. This surprises us a little, because yesterday Parliament adopted a very intrusive bill on health, and it was evident that it was necessary for the initiatives to apply until March next year. We do not understand why Denmark should need health initiatives until March, but only employment initiatives until January. We look forward to this matter being clarified in committee. The second question concerns the target group. Because when we read the bill, we are in fact a little in doubt as to which employees and which self-employed people are covered by the handout. The bill states that the target group is those covered by a recommendation from the health authorities to specific groups on home stays due to specific circumstances related to corona. At the same time, the government points out that it does not include people in voluntary quarantine. However, yesterday's health legislation went further in the target group, which is why we are looking forward to clarifying why there is a difference. In this context, it is essential for the Left to point out that we believe that the target group should be as large as possible. Our intention is for the least possible to lose their jobs, which is why it is of no use that we exclude a lot of Danes from the helping hand we are trying to reach out here. Now that we know who we are trying to help with this bill, I also have to say it quite directly: in the Left, we are concerned that this bill does not go far enough. We are concerned that we are really doing everything we can to ensure that as few people as possible are met with a note. For this bill only helps those who are themselves affected by disease or quarantine; it does not help those who have lost turnover, sales and activity because their customers have become ill or quarantined. It could be the airport employee from Greve who has been terminated because the entire travel industry is at its knees. It could be the freelancer from Aarhus who doesn't get any orders into the books because customers are busy saving their own business. It could be the painter from Slagelse who just sees cancellations pouring into the mail and suddenly looks at an empty calendar or it could be the self-employed from Haderslev who quietly sees his life's work crumble without being able to do anything about it. That is why the Left would like to make it very clear here today that we are ready to negotiate with the government on more initiatives. So the government just has to say the word. We believe more is needed to prevent mass redundancies. And to the government: You just call, and we'll come running to the negotiating room. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313131151	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313131214	Thank you for that, President. There is no doubt that everyone here agrees that it is a serious matter that we have on today's agenda and that it is of great importance for the whole of Denmark that legislation should be made. It is urgent legislation that helps to hold hands under the Danish economy, but also under the Danish employee. We are quite in agreement with this, and that is why, of course, we have also agreed to support the steps taken by the government. What is important here in the labour market is that, as a company, when employees have been sent home because of illness or because they have been quarantined because of the recommendations of the authorities, they do not have to pay the first 30 days of sickness benefit, but that they can obtain reimbursement from the public authorities from day one. It is a very great help to employers. It is also a great help to employers that they, as self-employed people, do not have the first 14 days of self-payment if they become ill themselves, but that they are entitled to sickness benefit from day one. These are two important elements of the measures needed to help the Danish business community and the Danish employee. There is so little confusion, because when you look at the Danish small self-employed, it can be a little difficult to see if everyone is covered by this. For now it has been recommended, for example. Hairdressers or skin clinics, i.e. those dealing with skin, that they should not take anyone in; they should keep closed. How have they been helped if they aren't in an A-box themselves? Can they then get sickness benefit from the municipality, or is it self-paid? What are they like? These are some questions that we in the Danish People's Party have sent out. Because it's a little unfinished compared to the very small self-employed how they're covered by this. And I hope the Minister can clarify that perhaps not here, but at least before we have to deal with the legislative proposal in the second and third stages. There is also a lot of ambiguity about freelancers, those who have been affected, because of the fact that a limit has been placed on how many people are allowed to take part in an event that is less than 100. And it is not the organizers that I am talking about here, but those who are working on setting up and preparing for everything that is freelancers, and they are losing their income. And it's by no means everyone who's in an a-box. What are they like? Do they have the opportunity to get e.g. a cash benefit-like benefit independent of spouse's or cohabitant's income? These are also questions that we need to clarify, because it is therefore a group that can get into a mess. In fact, we have many ordinary employees who are not in an unemployment fund. How are they related to this? Can they get sickness benefit from the municipality in this connection just on a faith and a law declaration if they are sent home and they are quarantined? It may be that the Minister says they can, but it would just be nice to clarify that, so we are absolutely sure of the situation. For some of the issues involved are also to create security, both among companies and employees. And if there are any outstanding questions, of course it is up to us to clarify them. And I also understand that the Minister is prepared to give good and thorough answers to the questions that have been asked. Because we all want to help. It should not be the case that we leave a group on the platform that does not receive assistance in any areas. It may well be that the government says it is their own fault, but then it will certainly be nice to clarify it, because in the Danish People's Party we want to help everyone who gets stuck. And in this context I must also say that if there are any foreign workers who lose their jobs in this connection, it must be the case that they are going home immediately to their own country. That must be right and proper, because they are here to work and not to receive social benefits, I assume. But there are at least a number of questions that the Danish People's Party has sent over. And it is also the case that there are other measures that the Minister has proclaimed can be done by an announcement and that the Danish People's Party supports. And if there are further steps that the Minister can take to improve conditions for employees and employers, the Danish People's Party is also ready to support them. But we hope that we will get good answers to the questions we have asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313131731	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we can move on to Samira Nawa, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313131739	Thank you for the floor, President. The background to this bill is pretty serious. The Corona virus is raging, also in Denmark, and it is primarily a health crisis. Our most important task is to save lives and limit the infection. But it also has its consequences in the field of employment. As a result of the spread of the coronasmitten, the economy is affected. The economic consequences for the Danish economy are increasingly apparent, and if we do not put in and show due care, it affects Danish business and Danish jobs. The Prime Minister said the other day at his press conference that we wanted to see layoffs, and we have already seen the first many layoffs due to the corona virus, and this has serious consequences for the families affected. Therefore, there is every reason to take action with measures to mitigate redundancies. With this bill, the employer's term is suspended. This means that both private and public employers are reimbursed for pay or sickness benefit they pay during the first 30 days of the employer's period. This is an important hand-out to companies which, in normal circumstances, help to keep Denmark running and secure jobs. Now is the time for us in Parliament to help keep these companies running, not least for the sake of the employees and their families. In the Radical Left, we are very pleased that the bill also includes self-employed workers who will be entitled to sickness benefit from the first day. This proposal for a directive deals with large-scale public extra costs and an urgent process in which there is no possibility of consultation, but it is precisely in an exceptional situation such as this that exceptional measures must also be taken. I would like to thank the Minister for Employment for a good process and to announce that the Radical Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313131953	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we can therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313132002	Thank you. The bill must be seen in the light of the spread of the corona virus and the extraordinary situation we are in. Generally speaking, we in the Socialist People's Party are not in favour of rushing the democratic process without consultation of relevant organisations, but we are in favour of the draft law here, precisely because of the unprecedented health crisis we are experiencing in recent times, which very, very quickly can also turn into an economic crisis. The draft law provides that, unlike today, reimbursement will be possible for employers for paid and sickness benefit, including the first 30 days, for employees who are registered as sick in connection with covid-19, and then selfemployed workers will be able to receive sickness benefit from the first day of absence instead of after the normal self-period of two weeks. So small businesses are also being helped. We have to keep our hands under Danish economy. I understand that, alongside the legislative proposal, it is agreed to extend the warning pool, which provides targeted help to those who are made redundant during large firing rounds. We in the SF certainly think this is sensible. We also believe, however, that politically speaking, a strong continuous focus should be placed on reaching out to employees and unemployed people who are trying to get into jobs, but at present. We need to consider measures to help ordinary employees who suddenly lose their jobs without being in any way master of the situation. It will only be timely care to start thinking in several initiatives here. However, as I said at the outset, the SF can immediately support the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313132137	We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Jette Gottlieb, the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313132145	Thank you. This bill is aimed at helping employers and small self-employed people, who are squeezed by the crisis, to make their own illness or the illness of their employees seem like a boy to the company. This is urgently needed and Enhedslisten also supports the proposal. But there is an equally urgent need for us to keep our hands on employees in this situation. People in vulnerable industries are in danger of going down in wages, being sent home without compensation or, at worst, losing their jobs. For some, it is a situation that is matched, for example, by the fact that they are not. is paid during illness, but for a great many others that situation is not present. What about the hour-paid with a 1 or 2 day notice? What about those who work for 14-day rotations and who must be at work on the day they become ill if they are to receive sickness benefit or who are being repatriated? And what about those who have not earned sickness benefit at all and, in general, people who are not covered by the law of the civil servant or staff-like employment, who are not paid during illness and who do not have a long period of notice? We also have to keep our hands under them, because it simply does not hold, and we have to step in. No one should be afraid to be without income, and we will work to ensure that more measures are put in place to ensure that everyone who is currently getting caught up in our safety net is caught up in it. There is a great deal to be done to give workers that security, and there we expect the government to be ready to bring it forward as urgent legislation quite quickly and soon. It is with good reason that we make that call to the government. We have to help companies, we have said that, but there are already ordinary people who have lost their jobs, and small freelancers and self-employed people who are losing jobs, and the tracks are scaring. During the financial crisis, the companies, and especially the banks, received large aid packages, while the bill was sent to the employees, who among other things. was reduced in terms of cash benefits. This time we must not forget the employees. They are also affected by the corona crisis, and I am almost tempted to say that we must not forget Arne now. That is why we in the Enhedslist are also interested in, and we are sure that, for example, there is a lot of work to be done. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. In this situation, it must also be ensured that people who are sent on the daily allowance and there we should remember that they bear part of the burden, because on average they will get their income halved during the period they are on the daily allowance. In other words, we must ensure that the daily allowance paid in that situation is counted as a dead period and that it will not count on their daily allowance consumption. That is also an important point. We are well aware that the government has other proposals, for example. to expand the alert pool, but we need to be realistic. In other words, the warning pool is intended to allow people to get training during periods of notice and such things, and I do not think there are any proposals for bringing people together in educational establishments in the event of mass redundancies. So I don't think it's gonna be a tool that's gonna be much needed, but that's fine. So it is also a step, but it is a completely different piece of legislation, not sickness insurance legislation, and we are looking at it as soon as possible, as I have said. We are also aware that the government has proposals for example. to facilitate the possibility of going on the allocation • it is also part of another legislation and then you can get additional cash benefits if you go down in time to ensure that no one gets fired completely. But then we have to say that it must lead to the sure consequence of dispensing from the 30-week supplementary allowance limit so that people are not punished twice, that is to say both by going on supplementary allowance and then by losing the right to do so. So there is a great deal of accompanying legislation, and that also means that we need to make a number of proposals and that we need to ask a number of questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313132615	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Birgitte Bergman. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313132624	In this crisis situation, it is crucial that the government and the Folketing take all necessary steps to help our companies, because ultimately it is a matter of safeguarding the private jobs on which each family and the country as a whole are deeply dependent. With the outbreak of the corona virus, Denmark is facing a national crisis that will hit our companies hard. Yesterday, on the Danish stock market, the C25 index fell by 8%. It is the biggest drop in the history of the stock index, and Dansk Industri reports about a Danish business community on its way in a state of emergency. In particular, tourism and the services and transport industries are hard hit by the fact that we all avoid contact with each other in order to limit the infection of the corona virus. However, the negative consequences will also be noted in the rest of the business world. In the Conservative People's Party, therefore, we welcome the fact that the government has put forward a draft law for urgent treatment to ensure that employers receive sickness benefits from day one when an employee is sent home because of the corona virus, which is something we have also pointed out ourselves. We think it makes sense that the bill applies both to employees who are infected or who have been sent home on the recommendation of the health authorities. The government must be highly praised for the fact that self-employed people are included in the scheme. The proposal helps to ensure that the individual company does not have the full bill for this crisis. We support the government's bill. We see this as an absolutely necessary step in the right direction in order to safeguard Danish business and jobs in this extraordinary situation. However, we are concerned about developments and we would therefore call on the government to call for further discussions on initiatives that ensure the least possible redundancies in Danish companies, just as we should have looked at the target group of the proposal, and that is where we share the concerns of the Left. I know that companies are working hard to ensure employees' safety and jobs, but they cannot do so alone. We see this bill as one of several handrails that are needed if we are to secure as many Danes as possible against losing their jobs. Of course, the Conservative People's Party supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313132850	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and this is Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313132901	When I came down here, I looked out the window, and I saw Dannebrog waving out in front of the Assembly Hall. And it actually warmed me in this time when both the health and the economic situation are changing dramatically day by day. And we look into a near future where not only large parts of Denmark are shut down, but also large parts of the countries with which we trade and the countries to which we export; the countries which are heavily involved in keeping the Danish economy running. And that is what is at stake: the economy of the country. It is not only the economic aspect but also the family economy. People will experience that they temporarily lose the job, the factory closes down, and may lose their jobs completely. And this government proposal helps to hold hands under them, and of course we support that. But that is not in any way enough, and we must act proactively, and we must act at the forefront. That is why we say in New Citizens: give the Danes their own money back. New citizens are proposing that we release citizens' frozen holiday money. Now is when people need their money, not in the distant future. And we must do so without burdening the liquidity of companies, and we can do so. The state must go in and pay out the funds that are expected to be earned in the Holiday Fund. Businesses must then continue to pay in or postpone that payment, and we could drop the penalty rates for companies. It will send 75 billion. kr. into Danish society, out to the citizens. It is money that can be used in society, so that more factories and more shops have a turnover, and thus it is possible to secure private jobs. It's the right thing to do now. We can't wait. It is the citizens' money, so let them now benefit the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313133200	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313133211	Thank you. We are dealing here with a draft law which will reduce the statutory costs incurred by employers in relation to employees' illness. The proposal must be seen in the light of the additional costs that employers have in these weeks when employees become ill by the corona virus. This is a good proposal, and we will support it, but we will also be asking for more to be done during the examination of the legislative proposal. For example: In these weeks and months there are companies which have to lay off employees because the turnover of the company has fallen dramatically. In such a situation, the company is required by law to pay out of its own pocket the first two days of unemployment, so-called G-days. And it is actually surprising that we have legislation requiring employers to continue to pay wages, even after the employment has ceased. After all, the benefit provided by the employee to the company has been completed, so why do they have to be charged G-days where they have to pay wages for another 2 days? Especially in a situation that we are in now, where some companies are badly affected, this is an additional cost which can prevent the saving of the jobs that are left in the company. That is why we are doing it; we want to save the company, and that is why, in view of the fall in turnover, we have to lay off some employees. In return, we want to save the company and the jobs that are left. But the possibility of doing so is reduced because you have to pay G-days. The question is: can we get the cashiers to take on the task of financing the first two days of unemployment for people who are members of an unemployment fund and can we get the cash assistance system to finance them for those who are not members of an unemployment fund so that employers escape? I think it would be good if we could say on this occasion that the G-days could be permanently removed and that we are now doing so, because it is now that it is actually very important that you do not have these G-days. So we will check in committee whether there is any possibility of persuading a majority that we can take a permanent stand against the G-days.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313133504	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. Thus all the rapporteurs from the parties who wanted to have been there, and so it has become the turn of the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313133523	Thank you for the floor, President. First of all, I would just like to start by thanking all the party employment rapporteurs for this, I think, very good cooperation, which we have in general, of course, but in this very, very difficult situation in particular. That is why I am very, very pleased that we are able to deal urgently with the proposal here today. As we all know and as everyone has said in their rapporteur's speeches, we are in an extraordinary situation. This is a situation which can also be very difficult for employers and self-employed workers. That is why we must act now. In order to mitigate the financial consequences for the jobs that have employees affected by the corona virus, the Government proposes to suspend the employer's period temporarily. The proposal will apply to those who are ill as a result of infection with the corona virus and, in addition, it will also apply to persons who are either quarantined because of direct suspicion of infection or who cannot work on the basis of the recommendation of the health authorities on home stays due to the corona virus. It can, for example, be done. be due to travel in particular risk areas or because they have been at a certain place at a particular time. This means that employers for this group of employees can receive sickness benefit reimbursement from the first day of absence and not only after an employer's period of 30 days. The selfemployed persons covered will be able to receive sickness benefit from the municipality from the first day of sickness and not only after 14 days as under the applicable rules. The bill will come into force retroactively from 27 February, when the first case of coronavirus was detected in Denmark. I am convinced that with this proposal and the other measures in the field of the Ministry of Employment, we can help to get both employees and companies best through the difficult situation we are facing. It is also my expectation that, in this context, companies will continue to show a great deal of socialism. I would like to thank all the rapporteurs and parties today for the discussion and I look forward to the forthcoming debate in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313133749	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. There is no wish for brief comments to be made to the Minister for Employment. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200313133812	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 17 March 2020 at 10:00 p.m. 10:00.
