ParlaMint-DK_20200623130006	The meeting is open. The Committee on Finance has delivered: Report on the extension of the parliamentary working group on world objectives. 3). The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623130024	The items listed as No. 37 and 38 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623130036	Member of the Folketing Mette Abildgaard applied for leave from 1 August 2020, according to section 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623130102	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the first deputy of the Conservative People's Party in Nordsjællands Storkreds, Egil Hulgaard, be approved as a temporary member of the Danish Parliament from 1 August 2020 on the occasion of Mette Abildgaard's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, with the agreement of the House, I shall abstain from voting and consider the recommendation adopted. It has been adopted. 1.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623130130	I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, Mr President. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623130139	Thank you for that, President. The general approval of the elections by the Parliamentary Assembly on 5 June 2019 took place on 21 June 2019. In this connection, the Ting also approved Aaja Chemnitz Larsen and Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam-Dam as elected in Greenland. In accordance with Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 6, this approval took place on the basis of a preliminary statement of the elections received from the Rigsombudsman in Greenland. When the electoral material finally established is available, Things shall make a final decision as to whether the approval can be maintained. The richman in Greenland has per. 15 May 2020 prepared the final electoral book on the choice of the Greenlandic mandates. By letters dated 25 March and 12 June 2020, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior sent the Ministry's statement to the Danish Parliament together with a letter of amendment dated 20 May 2020 from the Kingdom Ombudsman in Greenland. In the Supplementary Letter of 20 May 2020, the Ombudsman states that during the update of the election page www.election.gl, a minor miscount from the election site Narsaq town in Kommunen Kujalleq became apparent. The error count has no immediate impact on the candidate's position in the election and has been corrected in the final election book. The richman further informs that the richman has changed the script for the holding of parliamentary elections in Greenland at that point [The procedure for checking count], so that the technical difference in the count should not be repeated. The committee dealt with the matter in a meeting. The final statement, like the provisional statement, shows that Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA, and Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam-Dam, Siumut, have been elected members of the Folketing of Greenland. Some changes have been made to the final statement in relation to the provisional statement. However, the changes do not affect the choice of Aaja Chemnitz Larsen and Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam-Dam. No reasonable doubt has been raised before the committee as to the eligibility of the nominees. Then, on behalf of the committee, I can make the following: Recommendation The approval made on 21 June 2019 on the basis of the Kingdom Ombudsman in Greenland's provisional statement of the election is maintained.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623130409	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623130414	The final recommendation of the committee shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Those who vote against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes for or against shall stand up. Thank you. The vote is over. 3, specified manner). In favour 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The Committee's position has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623130545	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. There is a proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 95 by Sikandar Siddique (UFG), Jep Bruus (S), Britt Bager (V), Pernille Bendixen (DF), Kristian Hegaard (RV), Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF), Rosa Lund (EL), Hanne Bjørn-Bjørn-Klausen (KF), Pernille Vermund (NB) and Torsten Gejl (ALT). Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). In favour 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 95 has been adopted unanimously. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623130739	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are four proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 90 by Jep Bruu (S), Michael Aastrup Jensen (V), Nase Khader (KF) and Alex Vanopslagh (LA). Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). In favour of 58 (S, V, KF and LA), against 37 (DF, RV, SF, EL, NB, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 90 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 89 by Mr Morten Messerschmidt (DF), motion for a resolution (Doc. V 91 by Kristian Hegaard (RV), Rosa Lund (EL) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and proposals for adoption no. V 92 of Rasmus Nordqvist (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623131009	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. There is a proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 93 by Morten Messerschmidt (DF), Jep Bruus (S), Michael Aastrup Jensen (V), Kristian Hegaard (RV), Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF), Rosa Lund (EL), Nase Khader (KF) and Pernille Vermund (NB). Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). In favour of 91 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, ALT and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 4 (LA and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 93 adopted. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623131222	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. There is a proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 94 by Annette Lind (S), Michael Aastrup Jensen (V), Søren Espersen (DF), Martin Lidegaard (RV), Rasmus Nordqvist (SF), Christian Juhl (EL), Nase Khader (KF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB), Henrik Dahl (LA), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam-Dam (SIU), Edmund Joensen (SP), Sjúrður Skaale (JF), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG). Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). In favour 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 94 has been adopted unanimously. That concludes the question. Then we come to the laws.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623131410	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623131423	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Those who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Those who vote against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes for or against shall stand up. Thank you. The vote is closed. 3, specified manner). In favour 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623131554	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623131617	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 4 and 5 on amendments to the supplementary report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. 2 and 3 were accepted by the committee, or on Amendment No 3. 6-8 outside the supplementary report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration? They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623131648	The debate is now about the proposal as a whole. Sir. Mads Birded, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623131656	All I have to do is inform Parliament that the Left can vote in favour of the bill as it now stands. We weren't part of the coinage of it, but we had to see how it landed. But after seeing it, we are positive about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623131718	Thank you. And then, sir... Bent Bøgsted asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623131723	Thank you for that, President. The Danish People's Party is voting against this bill, L 188 A. What's in it here and it's so a little odd that the minister is changing the positive list. This means that from 1 July the Minister will allow employers to pick up labour from third world countries. Then it is said: if there is a shortage of labour. However, it is a little odd that at a time when we have had a very, very large increase in unemployment we have a few hundred thousand unemployed who we need to re-enter the labour market yet take the opportunity to say: we are opening up the positive list so that ordinary skilled people can get on the positive list. Then it is said that it is only if employers lack labour, because then it has to be so that they can pick it up. But if the Minister does not see the comic himself in that when there are a few hundred thousand people to be put into the labour market, then you allow employers to pick up foreign labour and employers rub themselves in their small hands. We have also seen employers say that it is sad that so many foreigners have gone home. It's because they don't have a job for them, and then they go home. And we are missing them in the labour market now, it sounds like, and the Minister agrees with that, otherwise there would be no reason to extend the positive list to third world countries. It's totally misleading. And not only that, but we must also recognise that the Minister has received support from his supporters in the Red Block, Enhedslisten, SF and Radicals, for this. As far as the Left and the Conservatives are concerned, I am not yet aware of what Conservatives are saying, but there is broad support for people to be able to pick up labour from third world countries; instead of concentrating first on before we start looking at the fact that we have to open up again, that we have to get them out into the labour market, which is now available, at least primarily those who have become unemployed during the Corona crisis. In addition, a great many Danish unemployed people still need to enter the labour market, and we should concentrate on them instead. It just seems as a sign that we are now opening up and that we are doing something to enable companies to get labour; but the Social Democrats themselves have helped to agree that we should have a higher limit to shut down labour, and then you just go the other way and open up the positive list, so we get some ordinary skilled people in. What does the Minister think will happen when the labour market gets back on track and companies can see that they can pick up foreign labour if there has been in vain recruitment? Then you just pick up the labor force, then you use it as a lever, and then you get labor from third world countries. And then the government has opened up that way and cheated the Danes who were supposed to have a job. For many of them it was perhaps just a question of a course • we shall then later talk about that, i.e. courses for the unemployed. However, it is quite out of place to come up with a legislative proposal that opens it up. If the Minister had waited until we were over the corona crisis and had got the companies going again and then could see that now there really was a shortage of labour, then it might have been possible to start discussing it. But the Minister has just once again opened up foreign labour. The government says that they are running a strict immigration policy, and the Prime Minister says that it has nothing to do with foreign policy, it is labour market policy. But whatever it is, it is someone outside the European Union who comes here. And in the Danish People's Party we just have to acknowledge that it is not part of the Danish People's Party. The Minister will probably also find it a little difficult if the Minister comes and says: we have just a little bit here in relation to the labour market which we need to open up to, so can we not just look at it? The Minister will probably not just expect the Danish People's Party to be available for this if the Minister wants to relax further on those rules. So it is sad to see today that employers' ability to pick up labour from third world countries is being taken into account instead of giving very high priority to the Danish unemployed. And it is also sad to see that the government's support parties agree to prioritize foreign labour from third world countries higher than the Danish unemployed. So the Danish People's Party cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623132207	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. And then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623132215	Thank you for the floor, President. I actually think we should wait with this bill, and that is also one of the things we have raised. For although there are many other things - which the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party did not mention, for example. the labour market balance, there has been in vain recruitment of labour, etc. and so on, which would mean that many of these job descriptions would not be included at all, so I agree that it may be a wrong signal to send. I hope that, as the previous rapporteur has said from the platform, the Danish People's Party will help to ensure financial security, help to ensure that we actually restore the benefit system. We shall now vote on this particular matter later today, and I hope that the Danish People's Party will live up to the words that the rapporteur has said here from the platform and will actually vote in favour of it. In addition, we must also start creating jobs. We must ensure that those who have lost the job get a job. It is urgent to secure it, and that is why I am also glad that we have part of our climate agreement, which we know will also help create some green jobs and secure even more of them. And the same goes for our welfare. In addition to the labour market balance, which I mentioned, there are also some other criteria that employers must meet. You can't just say as an employer: I'd like to have some people that I can outbid, compared to what I usually pay employees in Denmark. You can't say that and just pull them off the shelf. That's not how it works. There is the labour market balance, and in addition we have also set up a fence in relation to the fact that you have to live up to the AUB figures, that is to say that you have to have enough pupils and apprentices. And in addition, there are also requirements, as can be seen in this part about the skilled work, where a level is being set for it. There are also the parts in relation to the usual wage and working conditions, and this also happened in the context of a financial law, where we set aside an historically high amount and made a historic effort in relation to social dumping. On top of that, we are also going to make a special effort here, ensuring that there will be control over one in four approvals, so that no one is going to be cheated, on the contrary, that the rules are under control and that you are being treated properly and the way you are treated. Is the fight against social dumping over? Not at all. We will continue to fight for the things we want to ensure, to make sure that we have a good and safe working environment and working life and proper pay and working conditions, and that is, regardless of where in the world you come from, whether you are brown or light in the skin, whether your name is Aisha, or whether your name is quite different. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623132459	There were a few expressions of power along the way, and one time there was apologies for that, so I thank you for that. The next person who has asked to speak is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623132508	Thank you, sir. President. I think the process behind this law has been really, really bad. We could have done it in a way where we had gone together on the implementation of the law and had got a bill which was something that we blue parties, who actually advocated that we would like to have more qualified labour for Denmark, could have supported. But the bill, which it is knitted together here, provides a very, very wide framework, which means that it is the implementation of this law that is crucial. And if the Minister could not say here on the platform whether the parties voting in favour are actually included in the coinage, we would have to ask in writing afterwards: will we be included in the coinage if we vote in favour? And we got a blank no to that. As you know, the devil is in the detail, and we Conservatives do not feel that we can take our mandate and put it in the hands of the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left and hope that the coinage will land where we expected it to land. We simply cannot. I have also tried to ask how many people are expected to come to Denmark on this scheme and from which countries, and which of these different professions will be those who will be given priority, and I have not been able to get an answer to that either. So on the basis of a precautionary principle, we are voting against this bill. We had hoped to be able to make a good coinage and then vote 'yes', but unfortunately that is not the way the Minister has chosen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623132627	Thank you. Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623132635	I should like first of all to thank you for this fine little bill, which opens up a little in relation to foreign labour access to Denmark. I hope that this will be a first step towards making it even easier for companies to access foreign labour. Even if you would not quite believe it with that speech before my speech, it can be said that this is a journey which was effectively prevented by the support party of the previous government, the Danish People's Party, during the last parliamentary term, when the then government really wanted to open up more access to foreign labour. We must remember that foreign labour provides production, it gives increased prosperity, and it gives more jobs to the Danes. There are just three good things about increased foreign labour. There is no need to be afraid of it at all, because it only gives good things. So thank you for a small step in the right direction, which, of course, I am voting in favour of, and I look forward to joining with those who want to be involved in pushing for more opening up so that Danish companies can get started more quickly with increased production, increased growth, increased prosperity and thus more jobs for the Danes who have become unemployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623132758	We say thank you. I see no one else who has asked for the floor, and that is why we must get ready to vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623132807	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. 3, indicated manner) For voting 78 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, LA, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 17 (DF, KF and NB), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623132956	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623133011	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, indicated way) For voting 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623133131	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623133146	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1-11 by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623133156	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill as a whole? Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmide.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623133206	Thank you, President. You can look at the social media and understand that this is a good day for the Radical Left, which, with this proposal, has once again turned the relaxation button and led the government to make a serious relaxation of immigration policy. It is also a good day for of course many foreigners out there who should have been sent home. It could be Said, the Somali family father with seven children, who must now be spared in Somalia and benefit from in Viborg and Aarhus. On the other hand, it is a rather sad day for the Danes who voted in the parliamentary elections in the belief that the Social Democratic Party would be a guarantor of a strict immigration policy; and it is of course a sad day for the Danes who are to finance the many foreigners who, with this relaxation, are allowed to stay in Denmark but who probably will not make a significant contribution to Danish society. So, of course, is it a sad day to be a Social Democrat or is it really? So, of course, it must be wonderful to have the power of government, but it is a pity to have the power of government in a way where one is forced to manage it contrary to what one has promised to one's electorate and which one must assume that one believes deep down. At any rate, in the election campaign we heard very consistently both from Mrs Mette Frederiksen as party chairman and from a number of others, not least the Foreigner's rapporteur, whom I can see is here today wearing her ministerial robe in particular that foreigners' concessions were none of it. You wouldn't be a government at all costs. But that would still be the case, because the socialist-radical party community, which then makes you in government, demands its power. And who's gonna pay for it? Yes, the electorate must do so; it must be the people who finance the immigration feast, and indeed democracy as well. I guess this raises a number of questions about how many lies you can put out, President, falsehoods, that I have been corrected before for how many untruths you can stick out just to get into government. At any rate, I can say with certainty that we in the Danish People's Party count every single breach of the promise made by this government, especially on foreign policy. And we need to remind you of that every time there's an opportunity for it. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623133443	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Samira Nawa, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623133450	Thank you, President. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt began so fantasticly by saying that it was a good day for the Radical Left, and I just want to confirm that. What the previous government succeeded in doing, apart from a lot of symbolic policies, was in fact also to put in place some real policy which was very damaging to many people, to employment and to Danish society. Today's paradigm shift is being broken, and the Radical Left is delighted and satisfied with it, because the paradigm shift in foreign policy meant that the relationship with Denmark should mean as little as possible in connection with obtaining a residence permit. Today it is common sense that counts, namely that if you have gained association with Danish society through employment, you can also be allowed to stay and make your contribution to Denmark. So this is a really good day for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623133549	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmide. Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmide.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623133555	Well, I would like to congratulate the Radical Left, because it is an unprecedented demonstration of power. What we can consider is, of course, the moral content of it, i.e. that the Radical Left in this way gets its policy through, full cadeau for it, but that at the same time the Radical Left has a government which tries to give the impression to the people that the Radical Left does not exist and does not really have any influence, etc., and that we are pursuing a strict immigration policy, the whole spin rhetoric that we have been hearing for years now, that must be a little unpleasant. Normally you expect you to stand shoulder to shoulder when you do politics together. We have done so in the Danish People's Party. So this step-motherly relationship that has arisen, where a government is quite different from what the Radical Left can rightly enjoy, must surely be unpleasant. But yes, it is a day of sorrow for Denmark, and it is often a day of joy for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623133650	Mrs. Samira Nawa, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623133652	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt is often in the Chamber to congratulate me and the Radical Left on a great deal of success, and again today I just have to say thank you very much. This whole shoulder-to-shoulder thing, sir. Morten Messerschmidt will see in a moment when both the Social Democracy and the Radical Left will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623133715	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623133719	Thank you, President. And I can add that I have to make sure that it is spread throughout all the ghettos, in other words throughout the new electoral segment, you have to hear how the Radical Left is gaining ground with social democratic voices.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623133731	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623133735	I'd like to thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt to contribute to the radical election campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623133741	Then it's Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623133751	Thank you. It was exciting to see the debate that just took place. I understand that it is worse if there is a social democratic government that has a support party that imposes something it does not really want than when there was a bourgeois government where there was a support party that forced it on something it did not really want. For the truth is that this with former Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussens's words is a moment of liberation, because we are rolling back some of the things that the classic bourgeois Denmark was forced upon by the Danish People's Party in the last parliamentary term. So it is a good proposal that lies here. Note, too, that the Danish Employers' Association has given a very positive response, and they wisely consider that the proposed scheme can only to a very limited extent reduce Danish companies' shortage of qualified foreign labour. This means in general Danish that this proposal does not mean much, compared to how many people come to Denmark. What it means in relation to is that people who are here, who are skilled, who come into employment but lose their residence basis, can stay here for the joy of them, for the joy of the company and for the joy of Denmark. That's what this bill is all about. It's actually hard to find something bad about this bill. However, the Danish Employers' Association has found something that they also point out in their consultation answer, and it is a pity that they set the time limit of 37 hours of weekly employment. They propose, as an alternative, that, for example, 27 hours of weekly employment could be said, also for reasons of equality, because women in these groups, in particular, often have a lower number of hours of employment than men. So if you were to have an equal opportunities element in this, you might want to look at the number of hours next time you have to follow up on this. After all, I do not know who will vote in favour and who will vote against. I know, sir. Morten Messerschmidt and the Danish People's Party vote against, but I just want to say to those who vote no to this, that we should make the agreement here in the Danish Parliament that the next time a case arises with someone who has to be sent home and who is well integrated and has a job... if something like this happens... drop going on social media, drop running an election campaign on it, drop running campaigns on it, because the hypocrisy will simply be so thick that it will drive down all computer screens and iPhones, because you can't say on the one hand that you don't think that people who integrate and get a job should be allowed to stay, and when it gets concrete, you have to go out to campaign. So now let reason prevail, and to my bourgeois friends I will say: Listen to the friends of the Danish Employers' Association and, of course, say yes to this completely sensible proposal, as we do with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's words were unfortunately imposed in the last parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623134106	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? There is not, and we shall soon proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623134113	We shall vote on the final adoption of the bill. Those who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Those who vote against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Those who do not vote for or against are asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, specified manner). In favour of 54 votes (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 41 votes (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623134327	The Conservative People's Party has informed me that they want to accept Amendment No. 1-15 of the supplementary report back. The Danish People's Party has informed me that they want to accept these amendments. The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Mrs. Marie Krarup, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623134351	Thank you for the floor. I would like to thank the Conservative People's Party for tabling 15 sensible amendments to the bill on citizenship. The amendments are about not giving citizenship to criminals, and that is why the 15 people who have suspended and unconditional prison sentences have been tampered with by the bill. We think that's a good idea. We in the Danish People's Party have been working for a long time to ensure that citizenship is not granted, that is. citizenship, to criminals. Unfortunately, the Conservative People's Party lost its courage and found that they did not dare to table the amendments and therefore they wanted to withdraw them. That is why we in the Danish People's Party have asked to take over them, and we have been able to do so. There are some who jump up like a lion and fall like a lamb, but we dare to continue the course of the lions and keep the amendments, and the comic becomes quite clear when we come to paragraph No. Today we are going to vote on the motion for a resolution which the Conservatives have so sensibly tabled, in which they are precisely proposing that we should not give citizenship to criminals. So they do not dare to table the amendments themselves in the Chamber, but I have heard that they will vote in favour after all. So I do not know what to say about the tight immigration policy in the Conservative People's Party. I think it's a little comical. But we think it is very, very important that we take stock of each person who wants to have citizenship in Denmark. We must take into account who they are, and we must only give the huge gift, that is to get citizenship in Denmark, to those who are worthy of it. That is why we would also like to be able to discuss each individual, as was done in the good old days of 1850 when it was Grundtvig himself who was the indigenous rapporteur who made sure that each of the people who would then have the right of birth was discussed. That's the ideal for us. So we are pleased to accept the amendments, which we then of course ask to be put to the vote. So we will vote on them in a moment when we will vote 'yes' to them and then, knowing that they will be voted down, we will vote 'no' to the entire legislative proposal. Because there are far too many people there are 1,861 people on the bill, and it goes without saying that we cannot sit and discuss that person by person here in the Assembly Hall. That would take years. Too many people are too many from culturally alien areas, and there are also criminals, so we cannot, of course, vote in favour of L 180. However, we are voting in favour of the amendments and thanking Conservatives for having fallen as a lamb so that we can adopt them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623134657	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. I understand that the rapporteurs who are waiting here are doing so in relation to the amendments that will be debated. Here we go. It's Nils Sjøberg first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623134709	Thank you. There are over 1,800 who have applied for Danish citizenship. Many of them have been waiting for years for citizenship. We know of a matter that we have talked about in here, and it is one of the few people who have agreed to be mentioned by name in this Chamber, and that is Annette Herzog. We know she's been three years trying to get a case through the system. Now these people, these 1,800 people, and even more, have succeeded in obtaining Danish citizenship, and we have granted Danish citizenship. We have had it in the Chamber here, and now, suddenly, some have found out that some have to be withdrawn from the system. I think that these people who have sought Danish citizenship, who have been granted Danish citizenship, should be allowed to have it, and I cannot understand in all possible ways the views expressed, because it should be people of different cultures who should be interested in seeking Danish citizenship. They have done so in very real and, in our opinion, very harsh conditions. It is about long-term employment, it is about being oh so good with languages, Danish 2 is not enough, Danish 3 is going to, and they must be able to do a lot of things. To us it is deeply unacceptable and obscene to use this method to try to conduct xenophobic politics by considering it as pulling some people out of a system. It is possible that you want to change the law afterwards, and I very much hope that you will change the law in here so that you can make it easier, simpler and considerably better for people to be allowed to apply for citizenship, but what is vital is that we have made an agreement here and that there is a law here that makes it applicable to New Danes, for people to seek citizenship. We have accepted it and I would strongly recommend that we vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623134918	I would just like to say to Members that if we had not had the 'A' on the ballot board, I would probably not have put it, because there will be no debate. So if you want to stretch your legs, it's probably a good time to do it. It's just said as general information. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt has a brief comment to make to Mr. Nils Sjøberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623134941	Thank you, President. There is no doubt that the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party are fundamentally different in terms of the right of birth itself. I understand from the Radical Left that it is something you are entitled to if you meet defined criteria. In the Danish People's Party we consider it a gift to be welcomed into a family, a tradition, an inheritance, and therefore it is something that one cannot claim, but something that one can hope to get. That is why it is also a question of what these people can contribute to the family that is ours, to the Danish community and to the Danish democracy, society, country and tradition. That's why I'd like to ask Mr. Sjøberg about what it is he imagines that these 15 criminals, whom he intends to give Danish citizenship, will contribute to in Denmark. What considerations have been made in the Radical Left about how to make Denmark a better place to live?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623135049	I just wanted to say that I didn't turn off the "A" on the polling board. So I would urge Members not to run too far away. Then there is an answer from Mr. Nils Sjøberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623135057	Thank you. Danish citizenship has been sought for clear guidelines. We all know that if you have a parking ticket of DKK 3,000, it may even be extremely difficult to obtain Danish citizenship. So that means that there are some guidelines that make it quite clear today that it is difficult to obtain Danish citizenship. I think this is an extremely important point of view. We have agreed that everyone on this list should be allowed to become Danish nationals; it has been accepted. What seems to me even more monstrous about this is also in relation to the Danish People's Party. It is that some people are chosen and actually made public by name, and it is quite simply inconceivable that the chairman of our Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection thinks that it is right for us to insist that we respect the confidentiality of our committee. So beyond that, it is deeply unacceptable to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623135200	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmide. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623135204	Thank you, President. It is an exciting day when you become wise in the thinking of the Radical Left. So, not only do criminals now have to be Danish citizens and have Danish voting rights, etc., the Danes must also be kept in total ignorance of who they are. In other words, we have not even reached the point of allowing people to be familiar with what kind of people the Radical Left is letting into our community and allowing them to put together this Parliament. It's profoundly revealing. But Mr. Sjøberg answers very cleverly, perhaps consciously, not at all to my question. What are these people going to do for the benefit of Denmark? What qualifies them to become part of our community?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623135246	Then it's mr. Nils Sjøberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623135247	Thank you. To become a Danish citizen you must actually have worked, you must be part of the labour market, and you must have contributed for many years. I think that in itself makes a significant contribution to our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623135259	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623135305	Thank you. Now, in the first place, the debate is about the amendments that have been tabled, and I have to say that I think that the amendments that the Danish People's Party now chooses to maintain represent a quite incredible and amazing breach of the confidentiality that is normally about the work of the Committee on Bodily Rights. It is true that this amendment deals with 15 people who have been made aware that they are citizens who have a mark on the criminal record, in that they have a suspended or unconditional prison sentence. One then chooses to publish in an amendment the names of them, and it is well to note some names that lie in a confidential answer to a question from the committee, and usually it is the case that when it comes to the confidential information we receive from the committee, we must respect the confidentiality that exists about it. So you choose to give no thought to that here, because you think it is politically opportune to run a case on it. You choose to exhibit 15 citizens who have not wanted to bring this out in public. The information on these 15 citizens has been given in a confidential answer, and it is then decided to publish it here in the Parliamentary Chamber. I think it is deeply unfair and I think it is a glaring breach of the democratic processes that lie within the Committee on Bodily Rights. We can discuss the confidentiality rules. I would often also like to break the confidentiality to draw attention to a specific case, but, of course, we respect the confidentiality that exists because that is the condition for the work we do. I note that the Danish People's Party does not want to comply, and I understand that the Conservative People's Party has withdrawn their amendments, probably for the same reason. However, I think that this is a basic principle against the way we work in the Committee on Bodily Rights, and I think that if you want to change it, you should ask for some of the rules on confidentiality to be changed rather than pushing 15 citizens ahead of you in an opportune political attempt to conduct integration policy in here from the parliamentary platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623135510	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623135514	Thank you, President. Well, in case Mr. Keating isn't here. Hvelplund imagines that he has a daughter who comes home with a young, handsome guy who asks for her hand. Hvelplund in its lot affinity etc. is in favour of marriage, but if you just imagine it, at least Mr. Hvelplund does not rejoice before he gives his consent to the marriage, perhaps to know whether it was a criminal or not? The picture is relevant because what we are dealing with when we talk about citizenship is a family, a Danish family. We are woven together across duty and in responsibilities and in relation to each other, and therefore, when we vote on these laws on citizenship, we should look at it exactly as when we expand our own family. And to my death it would be completely incomprehensible to me why it should be avoided for the Danes to know that there are 15 of them, as Mr. Hvelplund will be joining the Danish family shortly, which has a stained criminal record.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623135616	Sir. Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623135618	Now I can inform Mr. Morten Messerschmidt states that neither I nor Enhedslisten are in favour of arranged marriages. Nor are we in favour of parents giving their consent to their daughters before they can marry, and I would say that I have immense faith in my daughter's judgment. Morten Messerschmidt and to his decision of who my daughter would marry. And that is the whole basic principle of this: of course we must leave it to the citizens themselves. What a criminal has done, what is the reason for having a conditional or unconditional prison sentence, is, in principle, completely irrelevant in relation to this, because one meets the criteria laid down for obtaining the right of birth in Denmark • the criteria which a majority of the parties have decided in the naturalisation circular. It is not a circular we have discussed here in the Folketing, but it is something that a majority of the parties have decided. A number of criteria have been laid down, and they meet them. Then we cannot come back and say that they must now fulfil something more. But I have more faith in my daughter's judgment, in relation to whom she wants to marry and the quality of a future husband than I do, in relation to what Mort Messerschmidt imagines.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623135736	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmide. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623135738	Sir. Hvelplund have obviously not understood at all what citizenship is all about, but fabulous in its simplicity into some fog, of which the rest of us do not become much wiser, one might say. Because the point here is precisely that Mr. Hvelplund want to expand the Danish family by 15 criminals, and it just has to happen with blindfolds. That's the whole point, sir. Hvelplund. And there I actually think that speech, as Mr. Hvelplund have just held, do not answer the questions we have raised, and that is very significant for the whole of the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left, the whole emancipation movement's way of viewing the community.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623135815	Sir. Hvelplund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623135817	So, I can see that the self-righteous pathos do not know its limits, at least not when Mr. Morten Messerschmidt will take the floor. But it is also to be welcomed; we are all singing, as we know, with each one of our beaks. I just want to say in relation to this that the citizens, the 15 citizens who stand here, have indeed met the criteria. It hasn't happened with blindfolds. Even very strict criteria have been laid down as to what is needed to obtain Danish citizenship, and these criteria have been met by these citizens. This is also true in relation to requirements of good conduct, in relation to what must have been committed by crime in the past. These criteria meet these citizens and, of course, they must have citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623135854	Thank you for that and, as I see it, there were no more brief comments right now. So we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623135904	Thank you, President. It is good to see that the debate has not disappeared since yesterday. And thank you for the good queue culture down here. I don't think I've ever seen so many people standing in line at once. It shows a little that this is an area that really is something the Danes care about. We Conservatives actually have a very simple point of view. We do not think that convicted criminal foreigners should have Danish citizenship. We have no desire to exhibit people. That is why we tabled the amendment as case numbers. We would have found another solution. Now it has been tabled again by the Danish People's Party, and of course there is the reason why we originally put it here: that criminal foreigners who have prison sentences should not have Danish passports. That is why, of course, we are voting in favour of that amendment. But the real debate here underlines the need for new negotiations on the rules of Danish citizenship. We heard Rasmus Stoklund from the Social Democratic Party say up here last time that they also think the rules are too relaxed, but the votes they do because of the previous agreement, but it sounds rather hollow when it is the case that the Social Democrats will not call for new negotiations on citizenship. It cannot be said that the old rules are wrong, that they have the power of government, but that they do not want to use the right to call for new negotiations. It simply does not add up. All the blue parties have sent a letter to the Minister for Integration that we must have new negotiations. In other words, this problem will only be solved when we have new negotiations, so that we have a new set of rules and, above all, in view of the fact that the Social Democrats themselves recognise that the current rules are not good enough. So I hope that it is the conclusion of this very long debate that we will be called as soon as possible for new negotiations on the rules of Danish citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623140051	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623140059	For those of us who have not had the pleasure of taking part in the work of the committee, the Conservatives seem rather strange to say so nicely. So you put forward an amendment which you find that you cannot afford to table, because it is not so good that you reveal who the individual are, and then the Danish People's Party maintains the amendment and the Conservative People's Party then choose to vote in favour and thus legitimise the method that you say you are against. It may be that the President intervenes, but I am still trying. When I was a child, I learned without accusing anyone of anything criminal... that the fencer was as bad as the thief. And if you vote for something that you certainly could not afford to put forward as a proposal, are you really not as bad as the one who is putting the proposal forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623140156	Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623140159	Thank you very much, President. That was a somewhat politically correct statement by Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille. This isn't about process. This is about not giving citizenship to criminal foreigners who have a prison sentence, but we are also a law and order party. We don't want to show people. If we wanted to show people, we'd just put on the names, and no longer is it. But why should we have a debate on this? It can already be read in Politiken's so warped and one-sided attempt to shed light on this. Why do we not shed light on the real question? Should convicted criminal foreigners have Danish passports? Yes or no? After all, this is the debate we are going to have, and this is the debate in which we will only get the right hook when the Social Democrats choose to call for new negotiations on citizenship. Because otherwise this discussion can run over and over again. After all, there is a law on the granting of citizenship every six months. Then we will be in exactly the same situation again in six months' time. I really hope that before then the Minister has called for the negotiations that all the blue parties have signed for us to want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623140300	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623140305	Why do we need a debate on the process? asks of all people, sir. Marcus Knuth. Because there is only one person who is guilty of this, and that is Mr. Marcus Knuth, who made a proposal and did not think that it followed normal ethical standards as to what to do, then withdrew it and then announced that he was voting for it. So I'm really sorry that I'm trying to find my way around sir. Marcus Knuth's hypocrisy, but that's what this is all about. If it was the real discussion about content that was interested in, then Mr. Marcus Knuth or anyone else, whoever the hell they are, made a proposal later in the day when we are going to discuss the content of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623140348	Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623140352	I think I can conclude that the former Minister for the Interior of the VLAK government must have had an extremely difficult time when he was a minister. First, five minutes ago, the Minister criticizes part of the asylum restrictions which the whole blue block, I know, was in favour of, and now he is saying that it was a huge disaster. I don't think it was a disaster. I do not think that asylum policy should develop into simply working for a stay in Denmark, even if there is peace in your home country. Now the former Minister of the Interior is then criticizing Conservatives in a way that I certainly did not hear when he was Minister. This is basically about criminal prisoners not having a Danish passport. I wish the former minister could address that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623140433	Now it is the case that Mr. Marcus Knuth is a short comment from Mr. Messerschmidt, sir. Sjøberg and Mrs Thiesen. Here you go, sir. Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623140443	Thank you, President. I think it is nice that the Conservative People's Party has ended up where it has ended, although it has certainly been a bizarre way there. We are available at any time, if there are good proposals that the Conservative People's Party intends to make in order to withdraw them; then we would very much like to join forces to hold them back. What I really want to ask is whether Mr. Marcus Knuth can confirm what Mrs Marie Krarup described very vividly in her speech, namely that when the Constitution was passed in 1849 I think that Grundtvig was the author of the citizenship of Denmark, the case was dealt with individually, so that every subject that wanted to become a Danish citizen was examined, because it was a gift, because it was precisely a binding relationship between the individual and the Danish historical community, in which the individual sought to be admitted, and that the proposal in which the Danish People's Party and the Conservatives now end up voting in favour of it today, actually only reconciles us with history.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623140543	Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623140547	Thank you, President. I do not know if the Conservatives have ended up somewhere, because I would like to say that we are going somewhere we are always on the move. However, to answer the question, we feel that the current rules are just not good enough and are no longer good enough. That is why this segmentation, which brings up these issues individually in the Assembly, reflects the need for new negotiations. And it's not just about criminals. We also want everyone to take Danish exam 3. We also want everyone to have a friendly conversation. And now that the wishes are as diverse and as diverse in the Folketing as having a new party, which has a very many new members of parliament, I do not understand why we do not get to the only thing that can solve it so that we do not stand here again in six months' time, namely new negotiations. And that is where I look down at the Minister and expect him to come up with an answer at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623140636	Then it's mr. Messerschmid. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623140640	I can remember a great many journeys that the Conservative People's Party has been on over the years, and not all of them have gone in a happy direction. But we welcome this one. It is good that the Conservative People's Party, having lost power, is beginning to think the right thing. Then, of course, we hope that this will also be the case if a bourgeois majority comes along once. What I would like to ask specifically is: can we also get the Conservatives to make the right of birth conditional on the fact that there is no subsequent crime? One thing, of course, is that we do not want to give it to people who have committed crime, but should it not also be the case that you lose it again if you get out of the wrong path?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623140713	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623140718	Thank you, President. Let me be brief, also for the sake of everyone in this Chamber. We are not in favour of a conditional version of Danish citizenship; we are in favour of the rules, so that when you give it the first time, it is given to the right people. Instead of giving a Danish citizenship and then withdrawing it, we would just rather that the rules were the right ones in the first place.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623140737	Thank you. The next brief remark to Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth is from Mr. Knuth. Nils Sjøberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623140745	Thank you. I'll be brief. This is just about the process. This is a question of publishing 15 people's names; 15 people who, in confidence and expectation of the Danish system, have applied for Danish citizenship. Fortunately, Marcus Knuth does not think that this should be done after it has been questioned. The chairman of the Committee on the Rights of the Child believes that this can be done. I'm wondering, I'm actually upset about this. And that is why we are actually in a process where we do not discuss what we think about the principles and the laws and the rules that apply to becoming a Danish citizen, but whether, as such, you can afford to make public the names of people as a parliament. And I don't think you can, and that's what we're against. That is why I would urge people to vote against this. Then you can change the law if you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623140854	Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623140859	Thank you, President. I should just like to remind you very briefly that the issue of the 15 convicted criminal foreigners was therefore discussed in this Chamber long before our amendments. So the rapporteur must try to look at the memory a little better. We have no intention of exhibiting anyone. We really just want criminal prisoners not to have Danish passports.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623140923	Then it's mr. Nils Sjøberg again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623140929	The 15 names we are talking about here have never been public until they came here in the Assembly Hall and Marcus Knuth focused on things. This is simply about showing respect. And now I think the discussion should actually stop. Show respect for the people who have applied for Danish citizenship in the expectation that when they hand something over to the Committee of Insights, it is something we keep to ourselves and that we can show them the respect that they can apply for Danish citizenship, confident that we keep our agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623141001	Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623141007	In other words, if we were not about to bore the honored Parliament with a very detailed discussion of the process before, we are at least now. I said very clearly that the question of the 15 had been discussed in the Assembly. It is not the case that anyone has put them forward in the form of file or names before this amendment. But the question had been discussed very widely here in the Folketing. So I do not understand why the rapporteur has such a great need to feel offended about this issue. In fact, I think that most Danes, if you ask out in the Danish population, would be comfortable with the fact that these 15 convicted criminal foreigners did not get Danish passports. I wish the Radical Left had the same view.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623141046	Thank you. Then I understand that it is Mette Thiesen as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623141054	When the Conservatives ask why the Radical Left is in need of this violation, I am tempted to say that it is because it is the Radical Left. Well, this is basically about 15 people convicted of crime and who therefore have to be taken out of the entire bill on citizenship notification. And it is perfectly common sense that one should never, of course, be able to acquire Danish citizenship if one is convicted of crime. It's self-evident. That is why, of course, we support these 15 amendments, just as we do not think that Danish citizenship should be distributed to a great many of those who are on the bill as a whole. So, of course, we are also voting against it. When I take the floor here and now, of course, it is for saying one thing that I usually say I am almost tempted to say that too many citizenships have been awarded to people who should never have had it. However, I could be tempted to say to the Conservative People's Party, to my knowledge it is the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party and the New Citizens' Party that supports these 15 amendments, i.e. that criminals are being tampered with by the bill, that, if there is no majority in favour of these 15 amendments, then I hope that the Conservative People's Party will also stand by what they have said, namely that they do not want to distribute citizenship to people convicted of crime and vote against the overall bill on the granting of citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623141223	I have recorded brief remarks first to Mr. Peder Hvelplund and then to Mr. Hvelplund. Nils Sjøberg. Here you go, sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623141232	It is quite legitimate for Mrs Mette Thiesen to say that there must be specific rules on what is needed to obtain citizenship, but so is there. They have been agreed in a naturalisation circular, and New Citizens are welcome to try to change it. Well, we have been trying to change this in the Enhedslisten for several years; we have been trying to relax some of the rules here. But if you want to make them even tighter, that is where it is going. Well, there is the absurdity of this: we are laying down rules, we are laying down criteria that people have the opportunity to meet, and then we come and say: Oh, no, by the way, those were not the right criteria; we would like to tighten them up here in the Parliamentary Chamber. If we are to have a reasonably transparent and transparent process, we will have to do it in such a way that people know what criteria they have to meet in order to obtain citizenship, and Mrs Mette Thiesen is welcome to try to change them, but then I think she should try to see if she could do it through a naturalisation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623141328	Mrs. Mette Thiesen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623141332	We are not going to give out a single Danish citizenship to anyone who is not for the benefit of Denmark in short. New citizens are simply not in favour of throwing around with Danish citizenships the finest gift one can give at all and which, unfortunately, has tended to give to people who should never have had it for decades. So we say no every time we're in doubt about just one on that bill. If there's just one on the bill we don't think should have Danish citizenship, then we're voting against the bill. Because this thing about throwing around with Danish citizenship must be stopped now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623141417	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623141419	In any case, I can see that the doubts that have never arisen in New Citizens have never arisen, as I know they are voting against the proposal every time. But the thing about saying that you throw around with citizenship, I think, if you ask out among the citizens who apply for Danish citizenship, will be seen as a mockery. Because if there is a process that is difficult to get through, then it is the process of obtaining Danish citizenship. We see one absurd story after another about citizens who live and live in Denmark and who are citizens just like all of us, but who do not have the opportunity to acquire citizenship. So no, no one's throwing citizenship around.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623141457	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mette Thiesen to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623141501	Yes, there is, and indeed, there have been too many people who will never be of benefit to Denmark and who should never have had Danish citizenship. So I would like to say that we support the fact that these 15 convicted criminals are being tampered with by the bill, but we will also vote against the entire bill with pride. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623141520	Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Nils Sjøberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623141528	I actually think that Mr. Peder Hvelplund has said in all simplicity what we also stand for, so I would just like to say that in this area we are in agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623141540	Mrs Mette Thiesen's answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623141548	I don't even know if it was something addressed to me. I maintain that, of course, we do not want to participate in this with Danish citizenship being thrown around, so we are voting in favour of these convicted criminals being tampered with by the entire bill and voting against the overall bill on citizenship. Of course we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623141614	It meant that Nils Sjøberg wants the floor again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623141622	Well, let me be quite clear: I do not think that people are throwing citizenship around. It is difficult to become a Danish citizen, and that is what it is. This is not about what the rules are for becoming a Danish citizen. This is about the publication of 15 names, and it could be 15 any names, but when people expect us to be trusted and we receive things in trust, we must also live up to that trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623141652	Then it is Mrs Mette Thiesen to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623141655	No, of course Enhedslisten and Radicals do not think this is problematic, because they are just some of those who have been at the forefront of throwing around with citizenships for people who should never have had it. So, no, of course they don't see any problem in it. That is quite common sense, and I am quite sure that the Danes around the country believe that convicted criminals should never, of course, ever have the gift of obtaining Danish citizenship. Of course they shouldn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623141724	The last person I have signed up for this debate is Mr. Christian Langballe as a privateist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623141734	Thank you, President. We have actually had this discussion quite a few times before, even while I was elected to the Danish Parliament, and now I am here as a substitute, but then there were bulletins to the President of the Danish Parliament on whether to discuss personal matters relating to citizenship, and from that it was stated that, of course, in relation to the granting of citizenship, it should be possible to discuss who got it. Gorm Toftegaard Nielsen, Professor emeritus, interfered in the debate when it became public and confirmed that it was in the spirit of democracy that we are discussing in this Chamber who is given citizenship. And I would like to remind you that the way we are doing this today is to pool citizenship, so that a majority just distributes to the right and left of citizenship, is not actually in the spirit of the constitution. When the very first bill of citizenship was tabled in the Danish Parliament in 1850, Grundtvig was the author of citizenship. Then, by name, trade, vandalism, income, everything that belonged to the personal situation, and then it concerned the Germans south of the border, i.e. the discussion about whether or not they could acquire citizenship. Grundtvig then says that one must be Danish in the heart to get citizenship, and if one is not, then his heart will bleed, and then he says: for they could rise against us. That's what Grundtvig said. Grundtvig had a generally good national conservative relationship with obtaining citizenship where individuals were granted citizenship. At that time ten were on the list, today there are 1 800. We don't even know much about them. For years we have been trying to tighten up these rules, and we have been voting for years against the granting of citizenship in addition to an agreement that we entered into twice, I think, in my years in the Folketing. But otherwise we have voted no, because it is an accident for Denmark that so many citizenships are given and, of course, criminals should not have citizenship. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623142001	There are brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623142007	Thank you. I cannot really make sense of the fact that the Danish People's Party believes that it is they who contribute to society and they speak a lot in Grundtvig's spirit. But what contribution is this about? For values such as freedom of expression, as democracy, as gender equality, as the rule of law, are not good enough according to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup. That is what the rapporteur said directly to me. No, it's about inherited values. And there is that I would like to hear: what are inherited values?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623142050	Here you go, sir. Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623142055	I would just like to say that, in relation to the granting of citizenship, there are, in fact, some considerations that need to be taken into account, not to those who get citizenship, but in fact most of all to the people, in other words, in relation to the fact that we do not give citizenship to people who are completely culturally aliens from Denmark. And what we have set as a condition is that one should be Danish in the heart. You have to be a Dane to get citizenship, because what it means to get citizenship is that you are absorbed by the Danish people, so it is very simple. And there is a sound, good logic, which Grundtvig also assumed, namely that it was so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623142132	Halime Oguz, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623142136	Danish in the heart yes, I would also claim that the vast majority who apply for Danish citizenship are Danish in the heart. And we have a number of criteria that make citizenship extremely difficult to achieve. When you then finally acquired citizenship, it is not good enough that you just feel Danish in the heart, because it is about inherited values. I would like to ask the rapporteur to take that into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623142208	Here you go, sir. Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623142212	So, quite frankly, have so many citizenships been given and the inherited values followed? I do not think so. I believe that citizenship has been given to people who do not even know Danish. After all, it is a terrible idea that the Folketing, unconscious year after year, has just granted citizenships excuse me. And being Danish in the heart then all understands; it is that one recognizes the land, that one recognizes the people. It's so simple what that means. Grundtvig knew it at least well (Thank you, President-in-Office). And I think it is the spirit of the Constitution (thank you for that) that we are discussing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623142250	Then it's mr. Nils Sjøberg, with a brief comment to Mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623142256	I'll be brief. I think it's abusing Grundtvig. I'll tell you what. This is simply about some people who have endured their punishment. They've done something stupid, they've done something illegal, and now they've endured their punishment. In all other contexts of this society, then, that is not something we should be hanging out for. Our society is such that if you have first endured your punishment, whether you have been in prison or otherwise endured it, you must be allowed to appear free, you can say. It is clear that this spot will always be there, but that is the way it must be. That is why I think we should show the respect that lies in this. We've got pt. This is a law which makes it possible to become a Danish citizen under very clear and, in my view, very violent conditions. And I have to say, you can't be Danish to become a Danish citizen. I think that's an incredible way to imagine it. It is clear that before it has been a foreigner, you have been through a number of tests and other things here in society, and you have worked. There have been very clear guidelines that we are not going to go into here at all. This is simply not about what our citizenship law is like. This is about whether or not you comply with rules. I would urge the Folketing to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623142409	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623142412	I'm not abusing Grundtvig. I quote him. And I actually believe that in the debate he held in the Folketing, he had the radical view in mind, because he says that we should not give citizenship because of misunderstood neighbourly love or human rights. That's what he says. And then you actually stand there discussing the ten, all ten, and their trade and good fortune. And that means that what is the issue here is whether criminals should have citizenship. We say no, and we've been thinking that all along. We have believed that the record should be completely clean and that there should not be a single criminal relationship. We have negotiated this, which is why we also decided, when we made an agreement in 2018, that we did not vote in favour of the birthright law. Then it is reasonable to discuss this in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623142502	Sir. Nils Sjøberg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623142508	Thank you. That will be the last comment I make, and then Mr President. Christian Langballe takes over. I have to say that what is central here is that we are now in a situation in which I would urge the Folketing to vote in accordance with the law that has actually been in force and that it is not acceptable to publish people's names in any way. That is simply what this is all about. At the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left and Mr. Christian Langballe and I, and there is no doubt about that, have very different views on citizenship and on who should be allowed to become a Danish citizen, is something quite different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623142543	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623142548	I simply note that it is we who are in agreement with the spirit of the Constitution when we table these amendments and when we discuss the worrying and monstrous nature of the granting of criminal citizenship. We've been thinking that for a long time. We think so now too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623142607	Thank you. Are there any more who wish to comment on the amendments? Then we have to start voting, but I have to make sure that the Secretaries have an overview of it. We'll postpone the meeting for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623144004	The sitting is resumed and Members are asked to take their seats in the Chamber. We are in the process of the third reading of Bill No. L 180 and has come to the vote. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (NB). Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, specified manner). In favour of 17 (DF, KF and NB), against 76 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, LA, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), abstention 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 2-15, tabled and joined by the same minorities who were rejected. They are rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623144307	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623144315	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, specified manner). In favour 83 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 10 (DF and NB), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623144506	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Yes, sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623144530	I hope I can make it shorter than last time. What is quite simply at the heart of this proposal is that we want to recognise the young people who were born in Denmark, who have taken a 9th-class exam in Denmark and who have remained on the narrow path of the law throughout their lives, and ensure that they have the opportunity to become Danish citizens. I believe that this is the best way to give the individual citizen the opportunity to be accepted and recognised and to have the opportunity to become part of Danish society, both with the benefits that are of course associated with it, but also if you want to contribute to Danish society, so that we avoid parallel societies. So we would urge that we vote in favour of B 144, which allows young people born in Denmark, who have completed the 9th grade and who are not criminals, to obtain Danish citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623144634	Thank you. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623144639	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, indicated manner) For voting 19 (RV, EL, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 74 (S, V, DF, SF, KF, NB and LA), abstention 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623144926	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623144931	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, indicated way) For voting 17 (DF, KF and NB), against voting 76 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, LA, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), neither for nor against voting 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623145143	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623145147	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, specified manner). In favour of 17 (DF, KF and NB), against 76 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, LA, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), abstention 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623145325	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623145350	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, specified manner). In favour of 26 votes (RV, SF, EL, ALT and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 67 abstentions (S, V, DF, KF, NB, LA and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623145533	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623145553	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, specified manner). In favour of 51 (S, DF, SF, EL, ALT and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 42 (V, RV, KF, NB, LA and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will now be sent to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623145807	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Jette Gottlieb does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623145825	Will it be a good summer for Danish employees? You don't know that. I will leave the weather to nature, but when it comes to the prospect of mass unemployment on top of the 140 000 people who have already lost their jobs, the prospect is gloomy. It is gloomy for all the employees because many do not know if they have a job when the compensation for wages ends; extremely dark for those who are and those who become unemployed because the benefits cover only half of the salary and the family's economy is being greatly pressured. That is why it is urgent for the government and the Folketing to exercise the social spirit and due diligence: the social spirit by showing the will to start negotiations on higher daily allowances so that no one should leave home; due diligence by already taking into account the 100,000 that will be affected by an economic crisis that too many can last for several years. Let me remind you that since the last crisis, more than 100,000 people have fallen out of the benefit system. The Folketing cannot turn a blind eye and hope for better weather in the future. When we know that there will be an increase in the water level when we know that rain and storm are coming, we will of course build dykes and stormproof houses and buy rain clothes and increase insurance. It is exactly the same with unemployment for employees, with just the difference that they are dependent on our decisions. If you want to go on a summer vacation with a clear conscience, you have to act now. We must recognise that our collective benefit system is the cornerstone of the economic security of employees. Unfortunately, unemployment benefits over a number of years have been eroded and now cover only half the wage. When the benefit expires after two years, many people end up without support. Therefore, it is important for Enhedslisten to improve the daily allowance now, as the trade union movement has also loudly demanded, and they are standing down in the square to mark that they are many who believe it. We are incomprehensible that the government and almost all parties in the Folketing refuse to negotiate daily allowances when we are in the middle of a crisis and spend billions of dollars on aid packages. It cannot be so difficult if there is a desire to restore economic security for employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623150051	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623150058	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, specified manner). 17 (SF, EL, ALT and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 68 (S, V, RV, KF, NB, LA and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)) abstentions 8 (DF). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623150324	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623150344	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, indicated manner) For voting 13 (KF, NB, LA and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), against voting 72, (S, V, RV, SF, EL, ALT and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstention 8 (DF). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623150553	No amendments have been tabled. The debate is open, and Mr. Bent Bøgsted wants to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623150625	Thank you for that, President. I would like to take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks to the citizens' group behind the proposal for grief leave. They have done an amazing job and they deserve all the praise they can get. It has also meant that it is a unanimous Parliament which is behind the adoption of the resolution here. This then means that the Minister has promised to convene a debate this autumn, where we will have a law on how grief leave should be. What the citizens' group has delivered is to the letter what is being adopted. Whether or not the Minister has anything else in his pockets that he thinks should be filled, I do not know, but at least it will be the case that the citizens' group gets their proposal adopted and made law. I would also like to thank the Minister and the Government very much for being sympathetic to the citizens' group. As I said, they deserve all the praise they can get, and I think I am speaking on behalf of the whole parliament in this matter. So thank you to the citizens' group that is behind grief leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623150743	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? The Minister for Employment does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623150750	Thank you. I shall be very brief, because I think that Mr. Bent Bøgsted is actually very well told what needs to be said. I would also like to start by thanking Pernille Møller Jensen and her co-authors for their tireless work in improving the conditions for parents who are in the terrible situation of having lost a child. I have met with Pernille and the National Association Lost Child and heard their personal stories, and I can tell you that it has touched me deeply, just as it has affected, I think, all the rapporteurs and all the parliamentary parties. I think it is very, very difficult to take their place, and I certainly cannot. I sympathize with them when they tell me that they wish they had had a legitimate right, a real grief leave, to process the loss of a beloved child. We cannot give them that right now, as things are today, but together we can help parents in the future to make the quiet grief that Pernille and other parents who have lost a older child should have had, but unfortunately did not. Secondly, I would like to thank all the parties of the Folketing for the constructive dialogue which has resulted in a political agreement between all the parties, which means that today a united parliament will vote in favour of the adoption of this motion for a resolution. I would also particularly like to thank the Conservative rapporteur on the resolution, Mrs Hanne Bjørn Klausen, who shared her very personal and very touching history in order to promote this issue, and it made a very, very big impression on me. With the agreement, we have given each other a handshake that all parents who lose a child under 18 should be entitled to six months of grief leave. The government is proposing a change to the rules in October, and I look forward to an equally constructive dialogue with the parliamentary parties on that bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623150949	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623150956	The final adoption of the motion for a resolution shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. The vote will end. 3, specified manner). For the vote: 93 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 0, abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will now be sent to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623151115	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623151136	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, specified manner). In favour of 25 votes (DF, SF, EL, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 66 (S, V, RV, KF, LA and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), abstentions 2 (NB). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623151342	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone want to make a statement? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623151359	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, specified manner). In favour of 16 (SF, EL and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 76 (S, V, DF, RV, KF, NB, LA and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), abstentions 1 (ALT). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623151557	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623151615	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining are asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. The vote was taken on paragraph 35 of the Rules of Procedure. 3, specified way For voting 26 (RV, SF, EL, ALT and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), against voting 67 (S, V, DF, KF, NB, LA and Susanne Zimmer (by mistake)), neither for nor against voting 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623151831	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623151849	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining are asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. The vote has been taken on the 35th paragraph of Rule 35 of the Rules of Procedure. 3, specified way For voting 10 (DF and NB), against voting 83 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), neither for nor against voting 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623152142	No amendments have been tabled. Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623152202	Today is a very important day for children who have a mother or a father in prison. It's like a unanimous parliament voting together to help the inmate's children more. Thank you all so much for recognizing the children and hearing them. For families who have a parent in prison, families are often in crisis. First, there is the lack and grief of a caregiver being abruptly ripped out of everyday life; then the struggle comes to make everyday life hang together; and then a lack of income. It's a clue to a child's life. Children are often affected by feelings of guilt, sorrow, bullying, misfortune. And I would like to repeat the quotes from the children that I also had at first reading of the proposal, because I think that the whole parliament should hear how these children experience the situation of having a mother or a father in prison. It is Sille, 7 years old, who says: The others from the class say: Well, it is not my father who is in prison. And Anton says: It was hard because you weren't allowed to go to children's birthdays because they knew who your father was. The kids weren't allowed to take me home to play, because what if I told my dad that they had it and that TV, it could be he was breaking into the house. And then there is Martin at 20 years of age and you might find that thought-provoking, that even at that age it can also be difficult. Very many of the big children experience that the framework of the visit provides for a conversation with their typical father, who is really difficult and unfamiliar to them. He says: I was so nervous that I almost vomited before going in there, for it was the first time in many, many years that I had to be alone with my father for 3 hours alone. And I kept telling my girlfriend what the hell am I supposed to talk to him about? It shows how squeezed these children are and how important it is that we support them when the damage has been done. We can't take the grief, we can't take the fear from these kids, but we have a cursed obligation to alleviate that experience as much as we can. I have the hope that we will come to that with the adoption of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623152418	Thank you. We do not swear in the Chamber, but I am aware that it was a quote from the rapporteur. Would you like to speak more? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623152433	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, indicated way) For voting 93 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against voting 0, abstention 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been unanimously adopted and will now be sent to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623152555	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623152617	Yeah, you don't get off that easy! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I think this proposal is very good because it is basically about the equality of families with children with disabilities with all the rest of us. So I would like to pay tribute to Mrs Karina Adsbøl and the Danish People's Party for putting forward the proposal, because I think it is a very relevant issue that has been addressed and one might wish that it had been adopted here today. Now I have not had the opportunity to participate in the committee's work, so I do not know what is behind the majority's position. If there is behind the majority's position that they just want to implement it in a different way, then it is quite fine that they say: OK, we cannot, unfortunately, get the resolution through, but we will then do it in the autumn through legislation. If that is what you want, then I think it is really nice, because of course people with disabilities should have the same opportunities as everyone else. However, it may be that it is not, and here I just stumbled over the contribution of the Socialists, the Left and the Conservatives to the report, which can immediately act as one of the more grotesque contributions I have seen in the years I have been sitting in Parliament. Because it is written that it is a laudable purpose and a commendable proposal that families with children with disabilities should have the same opportunities as everyone else. That is commendable, yes, that is very mild. It is surely our duty to ensure that our fellow citizens with disabilities have the same opportunities to the extent possible as the rest of us. That's our duty. Then it is written that, in the context of an amendment to the Foreign Order, it is considered that such a change in principle could create pressure for other services which do not fulfil the normal requirements to be included in the notice and, on that basis, it does not wish to support the proposal. This is really the worst kind of system argument you could possibly want, unless, of course, it means that the Minister has plans for my successor in part in the autumn to make it in the form of other legislation. Because if it is in the form of other legislation in the autumn, all the criticism I may have of the government, of the Left and of the Conservative People's Party will lapse. But if you do not do so, I simply do not understand what the background is, that is to say, that technical arguments pretend that you want to help these families with children with disabilities, but then in fact do not do so because it does not fit in in in principle with the way it is designed. Frankly, if there is anything that should be able to collect from right to left, from high to low and also all those who really disagreed last night, then it is then to help this group of citizens. I simply do not understand if that is not the intention. So I really expect the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior to stand up in the Parliamentary Chair in a moment and say that the proposal made by Mrs Adsbøl does not, unfortunately, meet the formalistic demands that the government feels are so important, but that in the Social Democracy, a party which has fought for the weakest since 1871 or when it is that the party was formed in terms of the content of the proposal, comes up here and makes sure that this problem is resolved. That is something to be expected. I simply do not see an ideological contradiction. The only argument that can really be is that it is too expensive to give people with disabilities opportunities that are reminiscent of the opportunities of our others. But it is peanuts that cost compared to public expenditure of 1 200 billion. kr. a year. Then I would like to thank you for the proposal. I warmly support it and I hope that one way or another it will be implemented and that it will not end up with technical arguments.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623153057	Thank you. Do more people want to speak? Mrs Karina Adsbøl does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623153106	Thank you very much, and thank you very much, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille to support this proposal. After all, it is a resolution which has been tabled in a number of stages, also in relation to being able to find a majority in this Parliament, that is to say that you can take your child, who has a disability, on vacations, and there have been some challenges. The best thing would be to allow the money to follow the family and the child, and we have tried to resolve it with various proposals when we have had these debates in the Parliament, but unfortunately we have not received support. What is so strange is that the family can be provided with a place of relief while they have to go on holiday themselves. Yeah, you might be wondering. However, I would like to thank Simon Emil warmly for his words and thank him for his support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623153158	Yes, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille. Thank you. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623153211	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, specified manner) For voting 28 (DF, SF, EL, NB, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against voting 56 (S, V, KF and LA), abstention 9 (RV). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623153437	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623153502	Thank you. After all, this bill is about giving women who come to the women's crisis centres the right to psychological assistance for 10 hours. The report states that 38 000 women and 19 000 men in Denmark are subjected to violence, and the government would therefore like to grant women the right to psychological treatment. What is then the challenge with this bill is that you have forgotten the men, because in the Danish People's Party we believe that you should have the right to help regardless of gender. The comments to the draft law state: "It is noted in this context that men who have been subjected to violence, threats of violence or similar crisis in close relationships are not given access to the same treatment. This is why we in the Danish People's Party have tabled amendments, so this bill will apply to both women and men as well as children who either meet up with their mother or father at either a women's crisis center or a men's center. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623153606	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623153613	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1-4 by a minority (DF), joined by a minority (V and NB), which was rejected. They are rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623153635	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623153653	Thank you so much. And I shall be very brief. This is, in fact, about the fact that the draft law that is here sets an age limit, and we do not think that there should be an age limit on this. In relation to these severely handicapped children and young people who need this help, we think it is wrong to go in and look at physical age, as it can be very different. And we think it should be up to the families. If families want to take care of their children at home, we think there should be an opportunity for that money to follow the individual child and the individual young person. So in relation to setting a strict age limit of 23, we do not think that there should be an age limit, but that Danish families should of course have the opportunity to take care of their loved ones at home, if that is what they want, instead of being forced to have them at an institution or in a settlement offer. So that is what the amendment is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623153755	Thank you. And then Mrs Karina Adsbøl has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623153803	Thank you. I have to take the floor and say that we in the Danish People's Party of course support this amendment. In the Danish People's Party, we have worked hard to ensure that people with disabilities could get the help they needed. And it was the case that in 2015 there was a land court ruling which meant that the aid previously provided by the municipalities in the form of monitoring aid was not authorised. This means that the aid previously provided could no longer be obtained, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party wanted us to have a legal basis for granting surveillance to people with disabilities, both young people and people who have the disease and others who need it. We previously called the former Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior for a debate on it in the Parliamentary Chamber, but also our current Minister. And it was the case that on 12 November 2019 we adopted a joint proposal for adoption here in the Parliamentary Chamber, and I will just read out what we adopted there: the Danish Parliament calls on the government to find a solution as soon as possible to the monitoring problem in relation to severely disabled people who cannot be executives but who want to live at home, including among other things. in relation to the transition from child to adult life. Monitoring is essential because the person may urgently need help because of e.g. failure or an epileptic attack. Monitoring may be an alternative to placement in a residential or nursing home. However, a judgment of the Court of Justice of 2015 stated that there is no legal basis in the Service Act for the municipalities to grant assistance for monitoring. In practice, this means that the relatives are forced to monitor the person around the clock or apply for accommodation in a 24-hour institution away from the family and everything the person knows and is safe with. The situation is not sustainable for the affected families. That is what we voted for in the Parliamentary Assembly. Today, we're gonna make one step further with this bill. It provides help for young people from 18-23 years of age, but then we need the remaining group. In the Danish People's Party we support the bill and we also support the amendment. And then we hope that at some point there will be agreement on this and that there will be another legislative proposal so that we can help those people who need it, regardless of age. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623154035	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623154042	Thank you. Since 2015, three social ministers have been sitting and promising that something should be done about this matter. And today, a first step is actually being taken towards creating the possibility of monitoring among people with disabilities. So this is a great victory. This will mean a great deal to the group of young people who, after all, will be included in this proposal. Nor is there any doubt that we in the SF would have liked to have seen a much wider roll-out of the opportunities for monitoring among the citizens we have been able to do so also in relation to some adult people with als, or, for example, a young person, where it makes sense to be at home a little longer. We would have liked to have seen such opportunities. That is not what was possible with this framework we had at our disposal, but we do not see it as a closed chapter. This is a very good first step, in which we can begin to give young people the opportunity to get a little longer to get ready, but it actually also applies to those people who may never ever get ready to leave home. So I think it's a good day, and then we look forward to the further work of rolling it out completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623154203	Thank you. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623154211	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (NB), joined by a minority (DF). Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, specified manner). In favour of voting 10 (DF and NB), against 82 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 1 (Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)). The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623154438	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623154457	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 1-3, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of EL and KF)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Thank you for your patience. We can just wait until Members who have to leave the Chamber have done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623154559	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623154623	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623154650	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623154719	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623154745	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623154802	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-11, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623154820	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623154838	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-6, elected by a majority (S, V, RV, SF, LA and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)). They are adopted. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. But then the Minister has asked to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623154917	Today we are second-reading Bill No. L 151 on the basis of a long legislative preparatory work and a course of study by the Committee on Transport, which has been somewhat unusual. At the end of 2019, the Ministry of Transport and Housing sent a first draft law to the bill in public consultation, and on the basis of the many consultation responses, I decided that the bill should be amended on a number of points and then sent in a short additional public consultation. The additional consultation took place in February of this year, 2020. In March I then submitted the bill to the Danish Parliament, and we first dealt with it at the end of April. The Ministry then answered a large number of questions put by the Committee on Transport, a considerable part of which was asked far after the deadline and with very short time limits for replying. Nevertheless, I have asked the Ministry and the Department of Commerce to answer all questions thoroughly, because I fully agree that the draft law before us is technically heavy and complex. However, I would like to take this opportunity today to highlight two particular steps from the committee's handling of the matter. First, the Ministry becomes aware that the organisation Agriculture & Food is concerned about whether trailers produced in small series are covered by Regulation No. 167 from 2013 or not. In addition, Agriculture & Food is concerned about the content of the national authorisation framework, which, following the original proposal, is to enter into force from 1 January 2022. The Ministry is discussing this with Agriculture & Food, and it says that the new EU authorisation schemes are not an authorisation requirement, but authorisation options. I myself took part in a meeting with Agriculture & Food on these issues. The question of the scope of the regulation is basically just different. In relation to the national approval framework, as you know, I have decided to table an amendment which has just been adopted, in which the entire national approval framework is taken out of the present draft law L 151. Then we turn the legislative preparatory work around and let the Danish Trade Agency draw up draft new announcements on the basis of dialogue with the industry, and when I plan to present a new bill with the national authorisation framework in the opening week 2021, then the regulatory basis that is to be implemented by law is known substance for the industry. Against this background, we have received a written request from Agriculture & Food, where the organisation indicates that the draft law as it stands now, including the latest amendment, should not be amended anymore. Then a new process begins, this time under the auspices of the organisation Dansk Bilbrancheråd. The Council is concerned about that part of Regulation No. 858 from 2018, which is about the approval of individual newly built trucks, and also this part of the bill is scheduled to be implemented by announcement per year. 1 January 2022. The Danish Car Industry Council raised a number of questions to the bill, including in particular a proposal for an alternative approval model. Therefore, the Ministry and the Færdselsstyrelsen have answered these questions over the last week and can now note that in their representations to the Transport Committee of 18 June 2020, the Danish Autobranche Council states that the Council has no objections to the bill as it now stands. I understand that the industry is very worried about and aware of the new certification rules. It is a quite comprehensive review of the rules that the Danish Trade Administration has set in motion, but I just appeal to focus on the possibilities and benefits of the new authorisation rules. It will be, for example. as a new option to have approved vehicles manufactured in small series with one approval, instead of as today, when each vehicle is subject to individual approval. In this context, the rules will, as far as possible, be such that manufacturers can themselves demonstrate compliance with relevant technical requirements in a number of areas. In this case, the manufacturer can only send an application and documentation to the Danish Trade Administration to obtain an approval instead of today, when the vehicle typically has to be driven into a visual inspection room to undergo a registration inspection. In other words, with the new rules, there is also the prospect of more flexible approvals and, above all, some in the industry will probably be interested in savings for the industry in certain areas. Despite that, we still need to have a conciliation on the bill later in the day, where among other things. the Left wants assurances that the Ministry of Transport and Housing now also intends to involve the industry in discussions on the rules to be issued on 1 January 2022, which will only have to be legislated on at a later date. If the progress on this bill does not clearly demonstrate that the Ministry of Transport and Housing and the Danish works council actually involve and listen to the public and the industry, then I really do not know what it takes. As mentioned, the bill has been sent in two public hearings because, on the basis of consultation answers from the industry, we changed the content after the first hearing. I have tabled an amendment which postpones the entire national approval framework for the parliamentary assembly 2021-22 in order to reassure the industry that there will be time to discuss the rules and that the industry will continue to have an impact on the rules. Regardless of the fact that the draft law has now received a content that the industry can support, I am of course happy to consult, although I have to say that I think the matter is quite clear. Of course we involve the industry, of course we take into account as far as possible not to burden the industry more than necessary, of course we set this work in motion as soon as possible, because we fully agree that such a comprehensive set of rules that must be drawn up will take time, and of course I will make the technical knowledge of the Ministry, and not least the Danish Federation's, available to Parliament's parties if desired. I therefore intend to make the following statement to the Committee on Transport's supplementary report, which I shall read out here: the opinion of the Minister for Transport Rules on the approval of vehicles, etc. needs a quite comprehensive update in Danish law. This delay, including in particular with regard to the incorporation of the two type-approval regulations from 2013, lays down specific requirements for the conversion readiness of the domestic industry, as well as the possibility to gain insight into and overview of the further implementation by notices. Therefore, the remaining part of the legislative preparatory work is organised in such a way that in dialogue with the industry the Danish Trade Administration begins by discussing and drawing up notices on national individual motor vehicles, cf. No. 1 5 of L 151 as submitted, as well as notices of national type-approval schemes outside the scope of the three type-approval regulations. Following this, a new draft law on the national authorisation framework, including the authorisation provisions for which the notices are to be issued, is proposed in the opening week 2021. The work on these notices until 1 January 2022 will be carried out under the following guidelines and conditions: I will ensure that this opinion is forwarded to the Folketing today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623155716	Thank you. Well, then, sir. Hans Christian Schmidt asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623155732	Thank you for that and also thank you to the Minister for the comments that have now been made. We note, of course, that six amendments have been tabled which take a number of the problems we have mentioned out of the draft law. We have signed for this, and we have voted in favour of them, and that is the way it should be. I would also like to acknowledge that the Minister is making a statement here which, as I heard, will involve the parties involved. I think that is only a good thing, and I think that is something that is happening. But I also have to say something that the Minister perhaps did not manage to say in his speech, namely that today we have received a letter from the Danish Car Industry Council, and they have written that on the basis of the answer given yesterday, on Question 25, they have a number of things they would like to mention that they do not agree with. I do not want to stand here and read out their entire text, but it is one of them. That is why it is a good thing that we have a consultation with each other, because we can then have time to clarify these things. We do not want to delay anything, but we want a treatment to take place so that, as far as possible, we ensure that there is no concern on the part of the people who will have to live with it afterwards. Their concern is that we do not use the models we could use today and that we do not use the option in section 45 for national approvals. In fact, they write: "The Danish Transport Authority informs the Minister of Transport that the vision of the vehicle builders is supposed to be contrary to Article 73 of the Regulation in certain respects, that it is inappropriate and last but not least, the Danish Railway Agency considers that the model proposed by the Regulation (and thus by the Danish Railway Agency) does not, at the overall level, differ from the vision of the vehicle builders. In this, the vehicle builders disagree completely........ it is good enough that some say that everyone is so happy. I guess they are. They just disagree, but otherwise they're happy. That is why we need to spend a little more time on it, and we do so by holding a conciliation meeting. We have made ourselves readily available, because I understand that the Minister has a problem with a rear edge this afternoon, and now Sankthan's evening is not what it has been in the past, so I have no problem with the fact that we have consultations this evening. And that's the way we do it. But I think there are some things in this which we need to address and which we need to assess. Finally, they also write in what has been sent to the Transport Committee: For example, the solution for the individual structures is expected to result in an additional cost for KL of up to 25 million. kr. a year to check the disabled vehicles built in Denmark; and where ALL vehicles are individual to the individual citizen.....It is, of course, the individual approval that we have problems with. We come and ask these questions, and then we hope we get some good answers. One question that the Minister can either answer here or come with us later this evening is: I should like to be absolutely sure that the Minister also has a model for how we are politically involved. I understand that this is being taken into account and it is right to do so, but is there any possibility that if we end up voting in favour of it, and we state this at the third reading on Thursday, we will also be informed along the way? I would just like to ask the Minister either to reply to that now or during the conciliation meeting, where else we ask the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623160108	Thank you. It looks as if the Minister of Transport would like to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623160120	Against this background, I feel called to ask for the floor; I was almost encouraged to do so. I understand that the Danish Car Industry Council has approached the committee in response to the reply I have given to question 25 to the draft law. I also understand that the Council of Ministers in the inquiry makes a statement and I quote: 'The builders of vehicles are quite prepared to let the works council be the approval authority...' It has advised, as far as I understand it, not previously expressed. But I think it is only gratifying, because it simply makes the differences between what the Council wants and what is proposed in the draft law, as proposed, seem even less. It is important for me to stress that with the answer to Question No. 25 concludes that it is legally impossible to organise alternative approval models. We simply note, firstly, that the scope of the scope of the exemptions provided for in Article 45 is unclear; secondly, that, notwithstanding Article 45, there are certain legal challenges to the organisation of approval schemes other than those resulting from the regulations; and thirdly, that in any event, it would be inappropriate not to take advantage of the approval system which we cannot avoid establishing in Danish law the basis for. Therefore, the only question remains as to who is to carry out the tests and checks on the vehicle builders' product before it is sent for approval by the Authority. Danish Car Industry Council believes that it should be the sighting companies. We therefore propose that it be the technical services for which, in any case, we are obliged to create the legal basis in Danish law. In this context, let me just mention that in future regulatory work, as little as possible, will be taken into account in burdening the industry. This means, among other things, that manufacturers, including vehicle builders, will have the opportunity to demonstrate themselves compliance with relevant technical services, i.e. in a number of areas. in a process without the need for independent third party control such as: at a technical service. In addition, the Danish Trade Administration has already received statements from the industry that there is an interest in the industry also acting as a technical service, that is to say that there will be sighting companies that also have an interest in acting as a technical service. I therefore conclude that we are probably not so far apart at the end of the day. I would therefore also ask the Danish Trade Agency to take the initiative to invite the Danish Car Industry Council to discuss the alternative approval model they propose. Finally, I just want to make it clear that this matter is not driven by a political agenda to make life difficult for the industry at the expense of turnover and job losses, as stated by the Danish Car Industry Council in their inquiries. On the contrary, this could be something they're going to save money on. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623160422	Thank you, Minister. As I have said, it has been proposed that the draft law be referred back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623160452	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623160543	The debate is open. The first rapporteur to whom we are to welcome is Mr Seligman. Leif Lahn Jensen from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623160551	Thank you. I've really been looking forward to standing here on the platform today with this bill. This is something that I, as rapporteur and as a party, have been fighting for for a very, very long time. So, with a huge smile, I can now tell you that it will be possible for unskilled and skilled people with an out-of-date education of over 30 years of age to receive vocational training of 110%. if there are good job opportunities. It is indeed an attempt, but it is absolutely a step in the right direction. Finally, we have an agreement where there is no whip for those who do not have the great and positive experience of the school bench, but a carrot; there is a great desire to invest in them, and one dares to believe that they can also get an education. We need more skilled people in the future • the companies need you. This is common sense. I think most people know that we are going to lack skilled people in the future. And I also think that most people know that the unskilled jobs quietly disappear and will never come back. Therefore, the only way to ensure that companies can develop and create more jobs is to ensure that they do not lack skilled labour. Therefore, the best hand we can give to these people who have gone directly to work after primary school and who see their jobs disappear every day is also to give them a chance, dare invest in them and dare believe in them. This sends the signal to all of you out there who want to take a vocational training but who haven't just got it done: we want you • we need you. The government has really shown a different way in Danish politics; a way where we want education and a way where we want to do ours to make it attractive for everyone to take an education. I would like to thank all those who have been included in the agreement... Enhedslisten, Radicals, SF, Danish People's Party and the Left to make this possible. Thank you so much. So we vote yes with a huge smile on our lips.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623160803	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur to whom we are to welcome is the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623160815	Thank you. 73,000 full-time jobs were lost in April according to Statistics Denmark. The fall in April is therefore more than five times as large as any month during the financial crisis. And if the figures from March are added, employment has fallen by almost 100,000 in the first two months of the corona crisis. In addition, all those who have been sent home on pay compensation are coming home. It is a historic employment crisis that we are in the middle of, and it is our first task to put the Danish labour market back on track. That is why action must now be taken so that those who have unfortunately lost or will lose their jobs in the coming months can use the grace period to train themselves. It has been a clear Left priority to ensure a skills increase for both unskilled, skilled, entrepreneurs and graduates to get an even better start and help to get back into the labour market. Both the initiative on entrepreneurs, the extra help for graduates and the extra help for both unskilled and skilled workers must help to get even more people into work. To mention a few of the concrete things that we in the Left think are good and that we are pleased that we have reached an agreement, it is that we are increasing the funding for short-term vocational training courses from the current 120 million. kr. EUR 225 million; kr.; that we, as part of the regional pool, give unemployed people who have a declaration of intent on employment from an employer, the right to start a course in 2021; in the second agreement that we take at a later stage, we have agreed that this also applies in 2020. We have also agreed that insured unemployed persons will have the right to start a 6-week job-oriented training from the first day of unemployment in areas where there are particularly good job opportunities. Then we have also agreed that we should simplify the rules that apply to positive lists. We look forward to that work too. Overall, we think it is a good deal we have made; it is an extraordinary boost to the unemployed. With regard to the 110 per cent that you can get if you take one of 50 specific training courses in which we can see we are going to lack people, we would also like to support the fact that, as an experiment, we will have to test whether that is what will help bring unskilled people into professional employment. So, overall, we support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623161132	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur to whom we are to welcome is Mr. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623161146	Thank you for that, President. As I said, this bill is actually a very good proposal, and there is also some innovation in it, namely on how to get people into education. Because that means that money will be set aside, as has been said, for education to take up 110 per cent. This means, however, that, in relation to another law, we need to look at how people, when training support is being provided, get the help of job consultants, business consultants, and that they must very actively help those who then take an education on unemployment benefits. And whether it's 110%. 80%. They must pay close attention to helping them and do what they can to help them to continue training as an adult apprentice afterwards. It is actually a very good thing, and it is something that we in the Danish People's Party have given very high priority. But it also matters that when you have been given a commitment to a job with an employer, you are given the right to receive a course. There are many who stranded out in the municipalities because they have not been able to get the course they need. When they have an agreement, a statement of intent from an employer, then they are given the right to get the course that can give them the job, because it is always the biggest gain, namely that you get a job and not have to continue on unemployment benefits. It's always a good thing to be trained. It can be shorter courses because you need to be trained to get a job, but it can also be a more professional training you start with. So far along the way, there are a lot of good things in this proposal, which I am sure will be well received out there, both in cashiers and trade unions, and in employers and in job centres, when they read it through. Because there is real help to get people upqualified targeted for the jobs that are now, also on top of the corona crisis here. In this context, all we have to say is that the most important thing is to get the many unemployed we have got back on track, to give them the skills that are needed and that employers are calling for, because jobs are being posted. So we need to get this going as soon as possible after the summer. So with these words, I would like to say that the Danish People's Party is really happy that we have made this agreement on the upgrading of the unemployed. We look forward to judging how it will work. We have also agreed, of course, that we should look at the effects of it. After all, it is only temporary, and depending on what the effects are, i.e. whether it has been a success, at some point, when we enter 2021, we must judge whether it is something that must continue, depending on what the success criteria have been. But the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623161506	Thank you to DF's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623161517	Thank you very much. Many have lost their jobs and, unfortunately, many are also losing their jobs in the wake of the corona crisis, and that is why we must make a special effort for those people who seem to be pushed at the back of the unemployment queue. This deal's gonna make an attempt on that. That's what we're gonna do with this deal. As an experimental scheme, we provide benefit recipients with 110%. the rate of unemployment benefit if they start a training boost in a occupation where there is expected to be a shortage of labour. It has also been a radical priority, that graduates who are capable of hitting the labour market and entrepreneurs should also be given priority and that special efforts should be made for them. In addition, we in the Radical Left are also very pleased that the overall agreement looks at a personal education account for all those in the labour market. Radical Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623161629	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur to whom we are to welcome is Mr. Karsten Hønge from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623161637	We must move and lift people and businesses through education. Bring out the escalators and get out of here with the trip wires. This requires us to act wisely, because we must now get adult, continuing training going. Both unemployed and employees in companies must be stronger after the crisis. It is an investment that Denmark will move forward faster and wiser. Many things will be different in the future, and it is the one who adapts that survives. Upskilling, retraining and change of track give employees more individual choices and often a better salary. Businesses are becoming more flexible and society is based on a stronger foundation. The daily allowance card must be replaced by a certificate of continuing training. Easier and better conditions for adult apprentices are also the solution for some people and some companies. We must tempt, and we must lure more people into action. And this requires that adult and further training should be carried out on reasonable terms. We could call it grown-up su. All over the country, companies should start planning training for their employees from Monday onwards, and the state, together with trade unions and employers, must make it tempting and make it easy to get started. In order for continuing training to be easy, simple and manageable for all parties, and new and better rules on financial support must play effectively with existing competence funds. Upgrading and training strengthen the competitiveness of enterprises. What we are discussing today is a visionary law. It is a small step, but it is definitely a step in the right direction, because it promises employees, and it makes the whole of Denmark stronger in terms of being able to sail through future storms.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623161905	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. There are no brief comments. The next to be welcomed is Mrs Jette Gottlieb from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623161908	I would also like to join the toasting choir, which says education, education, education and training, and some concrete measures have also been put forward with this proposal, which we may have to assess in a year's time, which will promote what we most want, namely that people take more education. The employers, trade unions and politicians have been saying this for a long time, and this is the first time there has been something similar to some reality in it. Firstly, some trip wires are being removed and the trip wires have really prevented people from getting started. This applies both to the people who were going to enter an educational rotational unit and who should have been unemployed for so long and so long before it could be done, and to those who have been fired and who should wait for training to start for so many weeks and so many weeks. Those kinds of trip threads just have to be gone; they have only been introduced to ensure savings in the education account, which no one has ever dared to admit. Of course, the idea of raising the daily allowance is also an old travert to that extent. A number of years ago, it was a common relationship that had 125 per cent. of your daily allowance, if you went into education, but now we try here 20-30 years after to soften and say: okay, 110%. I'm sure that's gonna be the little neighbor who pushes people into graduating. But is it enough to dare to embark on what is really a new life, because that is what too many people have been on the labour market for many years? One starts from being unskilled to getting another education, perhaps in another area. I'm not sure that's enough for it to really bat. The restriction that still exists is that it is only for certain training courses. There is a positive list of 50 courses, and how is it made? Yes, it is made by looking at what was lacking in the previous period. That is how you make those positive lists, and the result is, of course, that we look at the labour market of the past instead of, as we should now, and as more people make themselves figures to look at the labour market of the future. New courses, new courses, new competences, which are aimed at the green transition, which we know will have to take place. It must focus on the new IT measures, which we know will be difficult for some people who have not been there before, so that they can acquire new working methods. There are no solutions to all these things, there are no real solutions to them. Instead, some restrictions have been placed on which courses to take if you are to have the 110%, while the others have to settle for the 80% which has been the rule since cutting it down. It is also clear that training needs, training requirements, training poufs must be attached to the individual. It is, of course, easy to say when you are in a situation where you have a permanent job, a permanent employer, but I would say that I come from a labour market area where you can easily be fired five or six times a year, and then you show up in November and have a personal education right on e.g.. 14 days, which employer is so interested in hiring someone to send one of them to school immediately? In general, I think it is important that employers also take their heavy responsibility here. Of course, in a company one should plan training in the same way as one is planning vacation. The problem is, of course, very often that you cannot reach it. The company is so terribly busy, so you can't send your people on education, you can't do without them, but when the job is done, they get fired. So there's no education coming out of that. It is a fact in many of the hours-paid work areas where many of the unskilled are found, so it is therefore necessary to devise quite different promotional methods to ensure that those groups too receive some training. This is a step, it is not a big step, but it is a step in the right direction and, of course, Enhedslisten supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623162339	Thank you to Mrs Jette Gottlieb. There are no brief comments, and then it is the rapporteur of the Conservatives. Welcome to Mrs Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623162354	Thank you. On 17 June, the Government concluded an agreement on an extraordinary increase in the unemployed with the Left, the Radicals, the Danish People's Party, the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten. This means that a total of 750 million will be spent. kr. on the qualification of the unemployed. The Conservative People's Party is not opposed to upgrading the unemployed to the extent that it is needed and that makes sense. In the negotiations, we proposed keeping to the cost of the 340 million. kr. that was already set aside for the effort that actually works. But no, a majority will use an additional 400 million. kr. in the employment system, a system which, according to the Ministry of Finance, is one of the most expensive in the world. The government and the parties to the agreement will raise the daily allowance rate from DKK 19,000. a month to DKK 21,000. for unskilled unemployed persons taking a skilled course of training per month. It will not be with conservative mandates, because why should we throw a larger million dollars after increasing public services, which are already very generous? I simply do not think it is fair to the many people who work in low-wage jobs and earn less than DKK 21 000. I would like to say a few words about the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. We run the risk of being unemployed who only sign up for education to raise a larger check from the public sector without really being motivated to take an education. The Thorning Government's own experts pointed this out in 2015. We spend about twice as much as the Germans on active employment efforts. At the same time, a brand new study published on 16 June concludes that a larger part of the Danish employment effort is without a positive effect compared to other European countries. The last thing I want as a citizen is to throw more money at a system that is expensive and inefficient. We would much rather spend the money on measures that strengthen business and that create growth and jobs. It is not popular to say that people's money cannot be spent in public, but someone has to do it, and that is why the government's daily allowance experiment will be carried out without our votes. The Conservative People's Party cannot therefore support this bill. I should like to say from the New Civil and Liberal Alliance that they do not support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623162609	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I need you to stay here for a moment, there's a brief remark, and that's from Mr. Simpson. Karsten Hønge from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623162615	I sat through the whole speech and waited very eagerly for: what are we going to do? I understand that the Conservatives do not have much left for people who are unemployed or on transfer income; they should not have too much. But this is not the discussion I am going to try to take forward here, but it is that we surely agree that in the future more people with training will be needed, that we need fewer unskilled and more skilled and need to upgrade the strength, because now I will choose the path to strengthen companies. If we just park it with the employees for a moment, we can say that it strengthens companies that will need a flexible workforce in future, because it is the one who will survive. The whole thing was about cutting down on the fact that some people are now being given extra money and that because they get 10%. more than in cash benefits, everyone will go and sign up for an education that they had never dreamed of signing up because they seem to be thinking of getting 10%. More. But we park the argument, however absurd it may be. I would like an answer to this question: what are we going to do about companies? I was waiting for that answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623162713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623162714	We simply do not believe it when we look at the agreement that was made in 2014, which was precisely an agreement that we should upgrade the unskilled unemployed. We had to upgrade 2,500 every year. For the last 5-6 years, there are 1,900 who have been trained. So there's something wrong with our system. I totally agree with you on that. We are in favour of upgrading the unemployed. We are in favour of using the unspent funds in this pool. That's 340 million. kr. So it's not like we don't want to upgrade the unemployed. We just don't want to pour another 400 million. kr. In this context, I would like to stress the importance of the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. It doesn't make any sense. And I cannot understand how SF can stand up to the goal that low-paid people get less paid out by having a job than by taking an education.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623162807	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623162809	That is a pity, because Mrs Birgitte Bergman just wasted a few minutes of the parliamentary time, because there was no hint of an answer. If we try to stay on track, if we can do it just in the next few seconds, then we recognize, both Conservative and SF, that more qualified labour is needed in the future. I also think that it is very much needed because employees need to be more free in their lives, but companies need it because they need a stronger foundation, they need to be flexible and adaptable, and they can be if they have skilled employees. We know from research that the economy is one of the major stumbling threads to get people going on further training, so what is it that the Conservatives want? Apparently, this isn't gonna work, and it's not gonna work at all. It is very good that Mrs Birgitte Bergman has found all the gaps in the legislation we have now, but what do you want? Will you just sit there and sit back and let the companies sail their own lake? Well, then it's gonna be really bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623162901	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623162903	We will by no means allow companies to sail their own lake. We are now spending 340 million. kr. to upskill the unemployed. We just do not think that, in this situation, it is right to spend another 400 million. kr. from the room for manoeuvre; despite the fact that 48,000 extra unemployed have arrived, there is plenty of money in the pool that is today. We do not think it is reasonable to spend another 400 million. kr., and we do not believe that the scheme made here is a scheme that will benefit. That is why we want to be part of the next legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623162941	There is an additional short remark, and it is from Mr. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623162945	I just need to be perfectly clear because the rapporteur says that Conservatives think it is good about upgrading and training. Nevertheless, the rapporteur says that Conservatives will not be involved in low-skilled training, that they can take an education of 110%. of the allowance rate for a period of time, or that those on whom we have been working to connect may be transferred to an adult pupil's place. What is it that makes Mrs Birgitte Bergman of Conservatives opposed to unskilled people getting vocational training? For it was compared to an unskilled person who gets less by sitting at the box than one who then takes an education. But those sitting at the cash register can also take an education if they became unemployed and thus receive a higher salary. What makes Conservatives not want unskilled people to get vocational training?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623163044	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623163045	I do not understand the questioner's premise at all, because we are not against people being trained. That is why we are also in the second agreement where we spend 340 million. kr. to get unskilled unemployed, but we do not believe that it will help to post an additional 400 million. kr. i. We'd rather spend it on supporting companies out there, so people get to keep their jobs. Right now, there are a lot of people who are unemployed, and we still need to have unskilled workers in certain types of industries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623163114	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623163116	Conservatives say this is 110%. You take this and connect it with an adult student place, which Conservatives are also against in this connection. One should not be able to continue studying at an adult student's place if one takes an education of 110%. of the allowance rate may be for a year and then takes a subsequent training as an adult apprentice for 2 or 3 years. Conservatives will not be involved in this. It's a strange policy. It just remains for the rest of us that it seems as if Conservatives are saying: we want to keep some unskilled people in order to have cheap labour for employers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623163148	Thank you. Mrs. Birgitte Bergman, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623163151	That's bullshit. Listen to me. We believe that we are well off for 340 million. kr. may contribute to the qualification of the vacant period. And it has never been conservative policy to add additional money to the benefit system, and we will never do that. We do not think this is the way to get more people to train. We can see that. The last many, many years have not succeeded. So I cannot understand why this should be achieved by adding an additional 110%. i. I don't think it's fair to the low-paid.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623163228	Thank you to Mrs Birgitte Bergman. There are no more brief comments. And then we should welcome the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623163243	Thank you for the floor, President. I would like to start by thanking you for the way in which the draft law has been dealt with today and also for the comments made by the rapporteurs. I know that this is another legislative proposal that needs to be dealt with urgently and that time is very short. So thank you all very much for your understanding and graciousness in relation to it. Because the time factor is absolutely crucial in this context; if the legislation is in place now, after the summer break, when training places start up new teams, can get started with vocational training, and that is the whole purpose, namely that we get the system of training boosts up, so that more unemployed people get started with vocational training as soon as possible and are raised to a skilled level. The possibility of a training boost has existed for five years and there is broad agreement that the scheme has its justification. It makes good sense to raise unskilled unemployed to skilled workers, because our companies demand skilled labour on a large scale, and because the individual is much stronger with a manual in his hand • greater job security, higher pay. But we must also recognise that the system has never really got off to a good start. In 2018, 100 million had been set aside. kr. for training boosts. Only 18 million were spent. kr., and this despite the fact that the scheme has been adjusted several times and that a great deal of effort has been made to bring the funds into play. The lesson is that significant changes need to be made if we are to raise more unskilled people to skilled workers. That is why we are now raising the daily allowance during training and putting in exactly where the shoe is pressed, because we know that private economy can be a stop-point to return to school once you have been out on the labour market. The bill gives unskilled and skilled workers with outdated training from August until the end of 2021 the right to take a vocational training of 110%. daily subsistence allowance. The requirement is that you are 30 years old and start an education where there are good job opportunities. It is carrot rather than whip and an important investment in the unemployed. Unemployment is not an individual's problem. It's a common problem. Nor am I in any doubt that this is a good investment for both individuals, businesses and society in particular. Yesterday there were bleak employment figures for the month of April: employment fell by as many as 73,400 people. Many must therefore be prepared to work on something completely new on the other side of this crisis. This in every way confirms the importance of the unemployed being able to use the crisis to acquire new skills and qualifications so that they are stronger on the other side. That's why this bill is so landmark. I look forward to the further examination of the proposal and to following the post-summer education system when the new school teams start up. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623163544	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623163640	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is again Mr Seligman. Leif Lahn Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623163647	As I said in my speech on the last case just now, we must ensure that more skilled people receive training. This is important for society, and it is not least for companies, and if it turns out that taking an education is too hasty and cumbersome and has not built in the flexibility that is necessary, then it will actually make more people opt out of it, and that is precisely one of the reasons why the education promise has been used far too little. It has not been possible to achieve it during its benefit period and then not to continue, and it has not been flexible enough in relation to what was needed. That is why I am very pleased with the amendments proposed by this draft law. And let me briefly mention some of them. The training promise may continue after the daily allowance period of the allowance due or through the adult apprentice scheme and shall not stop at the end of the daily allowance. It is clear that, when you have a two-year benefit period, it is also difficult to obtain vocational training during that period. You can take an education which does not necessarily have school experience; job-ready cash benefit recipients over 30 years of age can take part in the pool or take a basic course after which they can continue on the adult apprenticeship scheme; and you can split it up and take up the things you need or need, for example. A basic process in which full vocational training can only be obtained today. These changes are necessary to meet the needs of the workplace and will ensure that even more will go ahead and that even more companies can see an advantage in taking people in and training them. I clearly believe that the most important raw material we have in Denmark is our labour force, and I have no doubt that it is skilled workers out there who make a huge difference. That is why we must always focus on education, focus on educating according to the needs that exist, and that is why we must always ensure that the education system does not become too rigid and impossible to deal with. This is a clear improvement. I am sure that this could mean that even more people will take up vocational training and that it is also an increase in the educational promise. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623163900	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. There are no brief comments. The next person we should welcome is the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623163908	Thank you. This bill is a consequence of the fact that, in the conciliation circle behind the employment reform, we have reached agreement on a strengthened qualification. After all, we are in a situation where some 42 000 people have joined the unemployment line, unskilled and skilled workers are particularly affected. Through the wage compensation scheme, more than 200,000 employees are affected by the crisis, and it is certainly not certain that all these people will return to the same job. In agreement with the conciliation circle, we have chosen to say that we must invest in the upgrading of unskilled and skilled workers with outdated training, so that we spend our time wisely, so that the crisis here can be used for training and for the conversion of skills, so that we are ready to move forward again, and that hopefully does so as quickly as possible. It is also the case that we need to use this agreement to ensure that what to say is targeted to the areas we expect there will also be a need for labour when we look forward. In the Left, we are extremely pleased and satisfied that there is also room for job-ready cash aid recipients who have reached the age of 30 and are either unskilled or skilled with outdated training to be able to take a basic run through the pool for the training promise, and we are also pleased that we have been able to increase the funding for short-term vocational training courses from the current 120 million. kr. Annually to approx. 175 million kr. annual. We find these vocational training courses to be very important in ensuring that people get better opportunities to enter a job again through a course. Then with this agreement we have also made an agreement that you can get the right to a short course if you have an agreement with an employer, and the employer says: If you take exactly this course, then the job is yours. We have now written this right into our agreement and now it is also being translated into the legislative proposal. Overall, we find this agreement to be sensible, and we look forward to being even more targeted with our training courses, so that even more unemployed people can get on the course, get on the training course, get on the training course, because this is what we need and they can acquire the skills that make them ready for it when the job openings again increase in number, and we must have occupied the jobs around the Danish companies. So, overall, we find that it is both a good deal we have made and a good bill we have before us. Finally, I would like to say that both the New Civil and Liberal Alliance support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623164259	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. There are no brief comments. And welcome to DF's rapporteur, Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623164307	Thank you for that, President. This agreement is, of course, an agreement in the series of agreements to strengthen the qualification of the unemployed, and there is also an additional need for this in this time when a great many people are unemployed, have been sent home and have been dismissed. There are some people who need new jobs, and there are some who have to change their approach to a job. They must have a different type of job, a different education, and this is part of the opportunity they have for it, and it must be seen in a close context with the proposal that we have just discussed on the upgrading of the unemployed and one of the points which lies in it and which I am also very pleased about. It is also in the second point that you are given the right to take an education if you have an agreement with an employer. This is something that the Danish People's Party has been fighting to get through for many years. In the past, it could be that they have to take a long-term education and become skilled, it may be that they have to have some different types of courses than they are used to thinking about, but it must always be targeted at where to get a job, and it will be with both this and the previous agreement. So all in all, we think that this is the right direction, that the unemployed are given more competences and that they are also given the opportunity to change their job area, which is what many people need, and not least that money has also been set aside for those who are going down to make the Fehmarn Belt connection. This is also part of the legislative proposals we are discussing today. This has not really been discussed, but it actually matters that you can get some extra training that has been job-oriented. When you look at the opportunities that the unemployed have today and you look at the fact that there are actually still many job postings, but that many of the unemployed lack a course or two, it is really a shame to know that you can't actually get a course and it doesn't work. We need to ensure that, once the unemployed have found a job and there is an opportunity to get into employment, of course they must have the course, regardless of whether it is 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 or 12 weeks course. If it gives you a job, it's the big win every time you get a job. There we in the Danish People's Party believe that the agreements that have been reached today are both urgent proposals... helping to give a boost to the unemployed in this sad time we have, where there is a great deal of uncertainty out there among the employees, both with those who have been sent home with compensation, those who have been dismissed, those who have been sent home on cash benefits. They do not know what the future will bring yet, but we can at least do so by using the time and the opportunity to give them a qualification when the labour market gets back on track. But of course the Danish People's Party supports this proposal, as it is also a good agreement that we have helped to conclude.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623164645	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623164654	Thank you very much. The bill here comes out of an agreement on strengthened qualification, and it is an urgent legislative proposal because people must have the opportunity to qualify in the wake of the corona crisis and the unemployment that has hit. The former rapporteurs have actually explained very well the content of the agreement and the draft law, so I would just like to say that the Radical Left supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623164724	Thank you. Then we'll have Karsten Hønge from the SF on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623164736	The Corona crisis has hit us all hard, and the crisis has thrown away all sorts of aid packages, essential first aid to save jobs, cultural life and leisure life. But it has just been first aid. Today we are discussing legislative proposals that go further and point to the future. Adult, in-service training all moves on. Tens of thousands will lose their job, but if we're smart, we'll use our time to get smarter. The unemployed must get started as soon as possible, and it must be attractive to jump on the training train, because it is so unconditional an investment for Denmark that we move on quickly and wiser. And we know that it is qualified and adaptable employees who are at a high level when Denmark has to work its way out of the crisis. So let us use the time of crisis wisely by investing in the future. After the crisis, the unemployed have to return to the labour market and many have to adapt to new work situations, jobs and industries. That is why we must remove barriers to education and strengthen the chances of the unemployed getting back into jobs. We must lure and tempt people of all ages so that they have skills that are sought in a changing labour market. Upskilling and training strengthen Denmark's competitiveness, it strengthens the individual employee's ability to make individual choices in his own life, and it strengthens Denmark as a society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623164928	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. There are no brief comments. Welcome to Mrs. Jette Gottlieb from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623164936	Thank you. After all, the two proposals we are discussing here today are linked. And they are linked in a framework that states that education, further training and further training should be an integral part of our working life. And what has been wrong so far is that there have been too many obstacles to this becoming an integral part of our working life. There is one type of barrier in the way companies plan, and there is another type of barrier in the laws, rules and sets of laws that have been. So even if you have come into a situation where you have become unemployed, it has not always been easy to use that time to train, and this is due, among other things, to. a set of rules which have been strongly advocated on the right side of the House, that is to say that the shortest way to work should always be used. I have always said that we must use the shortest route to lasting work, which means that we must have some qualification and training inside the picture. Unfortunately, it has been administered in such a way in the municipalities that it has often been said no to courses, because it was thought that it was partly a little expensive for the municipality because you did not have 100 per cent. reimbursement in the area, partly perhaps a detour, because one could not be sure that it led to anything. Therefore, there have been a great many both practical and legal obstacles to realising this. If, at the same time, you are in a situation where it does not happen either while you are in working life, we will find ourselves in a situation where continuing training is not a matter of course and further training is not a matter of course, and that is what we need to achieve. We must also develop a more visionary view of the link between vocational training and continuing training, so that the changes in training, perhaps in a dynamic production life, must necessarily also lead to the possibility for those who already have training courses to take the courses in question. But the whole way to restructure the education system visionally has not happened to this. Some trip threads have been removed fine with it and therefore Enhedslisten also votes for the proposal, but much remains to be done. There is also a problem with the fact that we have things in two different ministries, which do not always have a good conversation, namely the Ministry of Children and Education and the Ministry of Employment. I also believe that a little work should be done to create a more visionary way of interacting.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623165211	Thank you to Mrs Jette Gottlieb. And welcome to Mrs Birgitte Bergman from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623165222	Together with the other parties to the agreement on the reform of employment, we agree on an agreement to strengthen the qualification of unskilled workers by 340 million. kr. from 2020 to 2023. And there are a great many good elements in this bill that we can support. The Conservative People's Party would like to help simplify the system of qualification and use the 340 million. kr. that has already been put off wisely in the 2014 employment settlement so that the unemployed can get stronger into the labour market. Of course, we would like to help more unemployed people to attend courses and further training so that they can perform new functions in the same subject area or be retrained to new industries. And these are not least targeted areas where labour is expected to be needed. But we see no need to spend another 390 million. kr. on higher daily allowances, as requested by the Government and by a number of other parties in the Folketing. That is why I am also pleased that the Conservative People's Party split up the government's issue of qualification into two parts: a bill to use unused funds, 340 million. kr., for the upgrading of the unemployed and for the simplification of the system, and that is what we are dealing with now, and another bill where an additional 390 million will be spent. kr. of the economic room for manoeuvre on higher transfer incomes. We will not be voting in favour of the latter. We will only be included in this agreement, which allocates the funds already allocated to training activities in the field of employment. The Conservative People's Party will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623165408	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then we should welcome the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623165426	Thank you for the floor, President. I would also like to start by thanking the rapporteur for the way in which the draft law has been dealt with today and for the comments made by the individual rapporteurs. The bill makes lasting adjustments in the pool to the training promise. Unfortunately, the educational promise has never worked as intended. As I also mentioned in my speech to L 204, which among other things. they contain 110%. of the daily allowance to participate in training boosts, 100 million had been allocated in 2018. kr. to the education promise. 18 million were spent. kr., despite the fact that a great deal of effort was made to bring the funds into play. So, after five years and more adjustments, we have to recognise that this time there will have to be considerably greater changes. We need to make the scheme more flexible so that it is not the rules that stick a stick in the wheel for more people to get an education boost. The lasting changes must help to change that. The bill makes it possible for benefit recipients to continue their training even if the training extends beyond the period of unemployment benefit. After the end of the benefit period, the training may be continued through the adult apprenticeship scheme or the benefit to which the unemployed person is entitled, e.g.: or cash benefits. The draft law also allows benefit recipients to take separate parts of a vocational training course. This means that the job centre can grant parts of vocational training, e.g.: a basic course, or a shorter training course, if it is considered appropriate for the individual in relation to the former experience or job prospects of the unemployed person. In addition, the pool for the training boost opens up the possibility that unemployed cash benefit recipients over 30 years of age who are unskilled or skilled with outdated training may take a basic run through the pool. The bill also extends access to the FVU-digital and FVU-English subjects so that everyone in the workforce will be able to strengthen their basic IT and English skills in future if they need it. This means that more people will be better placed to find or retain jobs. The adjustments in the training promise and the extended access to FVU digital and FVU English are the result of the strengthened qualification agreement. Finally, the draft law contains a proposal to amend the law on a travel guarantee fund. The proposal follows on from the agreement on assistance to the travel industry concluded on 12 May by a broad circle of parliamentary parties. The agreement included, inter alia: the granting of a grant of EUR 600 million; kr. to the Travel Guarantee Fund. The aim of the proposal is to allow the Minister of Industry to lay down rules on the payment of grants to travel providers and intermediaries for foreign tour operators. In this context, the Minister of Business may authorise the Travel Guarantee Fund to manage the payment of grants to travel providers and intermediaries for foreign tour operators, including to decide on the payment of grants. The proposal is essential for the package travel industry to be given much-needed liquidity. I look forward to the further examination of the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623165739	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623165815	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 25 June 2020. First of all, Mrs Ina Strøder-Schmidt from the SF, the rapporteur for the questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623165909	I have called for this request because since April the Danish Health Service has instructed parents to keep their children at home after they have been ill for a further period of two days free of symptoms. Of course, the 48-hour period of symptoms is not problematic in itself, because it lies behind medical assessments. The problem lies in the challenges created by the rules for parents in relation to caring for their children. This question is not about the child's sick days, which are regulated in the collective agreements, but about the 48 hours that the state through the Danish Health Service and not through the collective agreements have required parents to keep their child at home after illness. It must be the case that if the state lays down rules, the state must at the same time make it possible to comply with the rules, and this situation has not been guaranteed. Although this question is not about the sick days of the child, I do mention them anyway, just to clarify the problem of the 48 hours during which the child must be free of symptoms. In Denmark, there are typically only two sick days for the child through the agreements. In Norway, on the other hand, you are entitled to 10 sick days of the child, which is set at 20 sick days in the coronatids, and in Sweden you even have the opportunity to spend 60 sick days per child. parent. As most people probably know, children are often ill more than 2 days, and therefore, according to a broad study among different professional groups, the few children's sick days in Denmark are estimated to be the biggest challenge in terms of making family and working life coherent. When it is already challenging for parents to be able to care for the child just during the period of illness, it is clear that the situation becomes even more difficult when the period of child at home is extended by another 2 days. The situation is also aggravated by the fact that the Danish Health Authority advises against the fact that someone other than the parents is caring for the child, including grandparents, who would otherwise be able to step in in some traps. The possibility of the child's sick days is a longer and a different discussion. The aim of this question is a discussion and a forward-looking plan for the challenges created by the 48-hour symptom-free period for parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623170119	Thank you for the reasons for the question. And then it is the Minister of Employment for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623170137	Thank you. And also thank you for calling this inquiry debate. The question debate today is about the parents who have to look after their sick children in connection with the covid-19. SF wants answers as to whether parents should be able to receive sickness benefit when they have to keep their children at home or how I want to ensure that parents are right and afford to care for their sick children until they are healthy and have been symptom-free for 48 hours, as the Danish Health Authority prescribes. First of all, I would like to stress that the government is working hard to ensure that the corona outbreak harms our society as little as possibly possible. This applies both in relation to limiting the direct negative effects of the spread of infection and the economic uncertainty caused by the partial closure of Denmark. Together with the Danish Parliament's parties, we are behind aid packages for a three-digit billion amount. Among other things: with the wage compensation scheme, we have held our hands under more than 200,000 jobs, while the current health crisis has been going on. In order to provide security for sick people, we have among other things. granted to employers the right to reimbursement from the first day of absence of employees absent as a result of covid-19 infection. With the support of all parties in the Danish Parliament, we have also adopted a bill on 20 May which provides for the provision of support to employees at increased risk by covid-19 infection, so that they do not have to put their health at risk by going to work. I am very pleased that relatives also became part of the scheme so that they do not have to worry about taking the infection home to their close. This also applies to relatives of children who are at increased risk of a serious illness in the event of covid-19 infection and who should therefore be shielded from potential infection by one parent keeping the child at home. The spread of covid-19 is already smaller than only a few months ago. Today it is not very likely that one will be infected at all, but precisely because infection can be potentially fatal to this group, I am extremely glad that we have together found a solution for them. Having said that, I am of course very sympathetic to the fact that parents may experience the situation that they have used up their sick days with the child. But in Denmark, with the Danish model, we have a long tradition that pay and working conditions are negotiated and established by the social partners, and this also applies to the right to absenteeism during children's illness. In addition, many collective agreements typically have other absenteeism rights with or without pay. It can, for example, be done. be care days for young children, other unpaid leave or other forms of flexibility. In addition, many parents of sick children will be able, in agreement with the employer, to make use of flexible time, homework, time off, holidays and absences without pay. Finally, there are already schemes in place in which parents can receive benefits for the care of sick children in special cases. For example: parents may, after maternity leave, receive benefit in the case of the care of a seriously ill child. The Government does not have any current plans to introduce a regulated right to absenteeism in connection with children's illness. Having said that, however, we are constantly considering the need for action to mitigate the consequences of the coronapandemic. And that is why, of course, I am open to discuss the subject further by inviting the parties of the Folketing to a meeting which I will convene on the other side of the summer holiday. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623170502	Thank you to the Minister for Employment for your reply. Now it is the case that there is one brief comment from the rapporteurs, but there is no sign of it, so I should like to ask the rapporteurs if anyone would like one brief comment. There isn't. Then I would like to thank the Minister for Employment. We shall now proceed to the debate in accordance with the general rules for short remarks. First of all it is the rapporteur of the questions, Mrs Ina Strøder-Schmidt from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623170534	I have, of course, explained the problem in my previous speech, so I would actually just like to make it brief and thank the parliamentary parties across the party blocs for working together on a proposal for adoption. I am particularly pleased that all parties have wanted to discuss the problem with the Minister for Employment and that we have agreed to meet with the Minister after the summer break.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623170601	Is there a proposal for adoption that needs to be read aloud? Ina Strøder-Schmidt I have decided that the Social Democrat rapporteur will be allowed to read it out). That's great. Thank you, rapporteur. Then we would like to welcome the rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party, Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær and he can then read out the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623170615	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the SF for raising the debate on whether the parents who, because of the stricter rules for children in day care institutions during the very special time we are in have to keep them at home for 48 hours when they are free of symptoms, should have access to sickness benefit. The work of the last few months both in the government and here in the Danish Parliament has been about mitigating the consequences for all of the global pandemic, which has had such great consequences for everyone here in Denmark and in the rest of the world. In particular, the conditions of the employees have been of great concern to both the government and the parties of the Folketing, above all in relation to how we could and can continue to keep as much work as possible. That is why we have spent a considerable amount of billions together on wage compensation schemes, aid packages, etc. Of course, it has also required flexibility for both employers and workers to be able to keep as many jobs as possible. That is why I think there is a great deal of reason to commend the social partners for their flexibility and, above all, their social spirit at this time. Both the organisations, but certainly local, have found rapid solutions in the difficult situations, and it is, of course, precisely here that the possible concrete challenge with regard to the parents of those children who cannot get into an institution due to illness must be found, as it is today, because in Denmark we leave it up to the social partners to make agreements on large parts of our labour market. It's a good model, and there's a lot of people in here who celebrate. This ensures co-determination and flexibility, and it ensures good pay for Danish employees and good working conditions. So we have to hold on to that. Every time we go in politically and regulate our labour market, we also weaken the ability of the parties to agree on proper conditions. That is why we must always be careful to legislate. But on the other hand, of course, we are in an extraordinary situation, which is why I am very pleased that the government will convene the parties of the Folketing to discuss whether we are facing a particular challenge created by the Corona virus. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and Uffe Elbæk (UFG) I shall read out a proposal for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament has done much to reduce the damage caused by the corona outbreak with various aid packages, including the provision of support for people at increased risk from covid-19 infection and their relatives. The Danish Parliament has a great understanding of the situation of parents, but it is in the Danish model the social partners who determine wages and working conditions. The Danish Parliament has noted that collective agreements often have absenteeism rights and that many parents will be able to use flexible hours, homework, time off, holidays and the like locally in their workplaces. The Danish Parliament has also noted that parents can already stay at home in special cases with benefit to care for their sick child. The Danish Parliament notes that the government will convene the parties of the Danish Parliament before the end of September 2020 to discuss whether there may be specific challenges for some parents by keeping their child at home for a period of 48 hours after the end of the illness, as the Danish Health Authority prescribes. • V 99).
ParlaMint-DK_20200623170945	May I have the text of the proposal for adoption? Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur we should welcome is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623171006	SF has raised a question as to whether parents should be able to receive sickness benefit when their children become ill. I understand from the text that these are children, as the Danish Health Service prescribes, to be at home for a period of 48 hours after the end of the illness. It is therefore a question of absenteeism in the care of children, as the Danish Health Authority prescribes must be at home for a period of 48 hours after they are free of symptoms. In Denmark, it is the social partners which determine pay and working conditions. As a starting point, this is therefore a subject for the social partners. In Denmark, with the Danish model, we have a long tradition that pay and working conditions are negotiated and established by the social partners. Many collective agreements often have absenteeism rights with or without pay. It can, for example, be done. be care days for young children, other unpaid leave or other forms of flexibility. As in normal circumstances, if challenges arise with child care in connection with illness, it is one's own responsibility to solve the care challenges. It is my experience that companies show a great deal of understanding and, in the vast majority of cases, find local solutions to it if a situation arises. Many parents will be able to use flexible time, homework, time off, etc. locally at their workplace, in agreement with the employer. In these coronatides we have seen that it has been possible. Having said that, of course I understand very well that there are parents who can be in the situation that they have used up their sick days with the child. Of course, we will listen to the concerns that exist and, of course, we do not reject good ideas in advance to help parents who must stay at home because their children are particularly at risk at this time. That is why the Left would like to continue working on this issue and we are pleased with the proposal for adoption that we are included in and which has already been read out. And, of course, we are pleased to have raised this important debate. With those words, I would like to thank you for the floor and, at the same time, to welcome our lovely Conservative friends and say that they also support the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623171223	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. Then we should welcome Mr. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623171232	Thank you for that, President. I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Ina Strøder-Schmidt from the SF for putting this question. In fact, this is an important question. It means a lot to the parents. It is therefore also boring to see that so many parties are absent in the Chamber today. It is rather sad that they do not give priority to such an important question. Because what remains is the problems that many parents have, when they do not have the opportunities that are listed, that if you can take flex time, then you can work from home, then you can take some holiday days, you can take time off, etc., but if you look at the problem, you will see that there are actually a lot of employees who do not have those opportunities. It's so easy to say you can just take something. It is also easy to say that the social partners must find out. In fact, there are many employees who do not have the same opportunities. Not everyone is covered by agreements where you have the first and second day of illness and can take the day off. It's not all of them. Of course you can say that they can just join that box, but they haven't. The world's not like that. You have a free choice. That is why it is a little sad to look at what I think we are doing in the motion for a resolution that has been tabled. The Danish People's Party also welcomes a cup of coffee over by the Minister and listens to what the Minister has to say in this regard, but there is nothing binding in it. I have full respect for the fact that the social partners must agree on this in the labour market, and we respect that too, and we think that they are doing a very good job far along the way. But there's an issue with parents who have kids. They are also said: Well, then the grandparents can take care of them. Yeah, maybe that's very good, but it's not always the grandparents around. I have my own grandchildren, who are a little far away, and therefore you don't go to pick them up in kindergarten to be with them because they are sick if you have to drive 200 or 300 km. So not everyone can take advantage of the opportunities you have. Therefore, it makes it even harder when, in this situation of covid-19, the Danish Health Service prescribes that you should be at home • the children must be at home for 48 hours before they have to go again. And in this situation it is said that it is not a legal requirement, it is not something they should do, but I can guarantee that schools and nursery schools say: well, the children must be home for the 48 hours they must not come back before. And who is it with the hair in the mailbox? These are, in fact, the parents that Mrs Ina Strejer-Schmidt is thinking of here. They stand with their hair in the mailbox and ask, How are we gonna get our kids cared for? Well, the answer is, why don't you take the day off? But it is also a matter of saying to the employer: I have to stay at home, I cannot get to work, I have no days to take off or any thing; then it is to pay for myself and it costs the parents quite a lot. But precisely the problem created by the Danish Health Authority is not something that the social partners must deal with, because it is not they who have created the problem in this regard. It is the state, it is the Danish Health Service that has created a problem by saying that they prescribe that children should be home for 48 hours before they can go back to school or in kindergarten or in nursery. I really hope that this will be over soon, because it could be a major problem for many parents, and that is already a major problem today. They don't know how to take care of the kids if they don't have any help. That is why it is necessary to look at it, and that is why it is good to have a debate on it here, but it is just sad, as I said, that there are no more parties. But it is not SF and Mrs Ina Strejer-Schmidt's fault that there are no more parties. The parties must then make up for themselves how they prioritise their daily lives and what they think is important. But I have a proposal for adoption. On behalf of the Danish People's Party and New Citizens I hereby submit the following: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the requirement that parents keep their child at home for a symptom-free period of 48 hours after the end of the illness prescribed by the Danish Health Authority creates care problems for parents. The Folketing instructs the government to convene the parties of the Folketing before 1 September 2020 to discuss whether a possible solution to the problem can be found. • V 100). As I said before, we in the Danish People's Party are also happy to come up against the proposal for adoption that was put forward before, which will of course be adopted because it has a large majority. However, the Danish People's Party will gladly attend a meeting on whether there is anything that can be resolved in this regard. I am just afraid that it will only be a coffee meeting and nothing else, but I hope that something constructive can come of it. The time must show that, but if we get an invitation, the Danish People's Party will of course meet up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623171752	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech and also thank you for the text of the proposal for adoption. Then it is Mrs Jette Gottlieb from the Enhedslisten who has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623171803	I am absolutely convinced that we have a problem and I am absolutely convinced that someone has some problems in having their sick children cared for and in having their children cared for after they have recovered, and that is the situation here. We have made very urgent legislation recently, and some of it on the basis of tripartite agreements, but we must also admit that not everything has been comprehensive. There have been gaps in the system, because the problems that people have in practice have not been solved immediately, for example. It took two months before we had a sort of solution for the risk group and their relatives, including those situations where it might be a child who is ill. And I would like to point out that there are a great many agreements where you are entitled to the first day of illness. It is clear that there are also agreements where you are entitled to the first and second day of illness. There are also many agreements where the concept of flexibility is a foreign word and where a free choice account is something one has only heard of. So it is not everyone who has the opportunity to be flexible in relation to their workplace in order to solve the problem that has arisen when a two-day safety limit has been set at ministerial level, which is understandable, for when to send your child to school or to an institution. It is an understandable decision in the light of the signs of disease we have seen here in the coronate, but nevertheless it simply shifts the problem to the parents, and therefore it is also important that we get the clarification of the problem, the identification of how many we are dealing with, how we can help them and that we get it as quickly as possible. That is why I fully sympathise with the proposal put forward by the previous rapporteur, because it was a little clearer in spit compared to solving the problems. However, we feel that it is better for us to get a decision, for a meeting to be actually convened, and that is why we have helped to ensure that this happens, and I think that is an important situation, and I think that all parties should be prepared to deal with the problem to the extent that we can have it described. We hope that the Ministry will contribute to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623172035	Thank you to Mrs Jette Gottlieb. There are no brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623172047	Thank you very much for all the speeches in this debate, thank you for a good debate with many interesting inputs. As I began by saying, in Denmark it is the social partners who agree on conditions for absenteeism in a child's illness. The government is, of course, open to good ideas to help parents who may stay at home because their children in the extraordinary time must be kept at home as a result of covid-19. That is also why I am prepared to discuss the subject more closely with the parties of the Folketing at a meeting on the other side of the summer holiday. And that applies to all of Bent Bøgsted's speeches. As Mr. Bent Bøgsted knows from one of our national treasures, Matador, all major problems are solved initially with a cup of coffee. In conclusion, I hope that it is clear to everyone that it is important to me that you do not feel pressured to go to work or quit your job in this difficult time. That is why I am also proud that together we found a very good solution for our most vulnerable families in the labour market so that they do not feel pressured to go to work and risk becoming seriously ill or quit their jobs in this difficult situation we are still in. Similarly, their loved ones should not be insecure by bringing home infection after being at work. I am delighted when we repeatedly show that we can stand together in these difficult situations and are able to act on the concrete challenges that exist. I look forward to discussing this issue further with all the parties of the Folketing. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623172232	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Thursday 25 June 2020. Then we are in a situation where the last few items on the agenda have gone very quickly, so we will take a short break.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623172555	The sitting is resumed. First, we must welcome the Minister, and that is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623172634	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the authors of this motion for a resolution on the prohibition of loud prayer calls and similar religious expressions in public spaces. Imagine that it's Friday afternoon, you're going to Føtex with the kids to buy Friday candy, and then you start to sound a prayer call over the rooftops, over the parking lot... is that the way we're going in Denmark? Is it supposed to be everyday? For me, the answer is actually quite simple: no, it is not. In Denmark one can freely cultivate one's faith, just as one can gather to cultivate one's faith in a way that is consistent with one's beliefs, as long as it does not conflict with public order. And, of course, we have no problem with citizens signaling association with a particular religion, not at all. But prayer calls are not a question of signaling attachment, and there should be no doubt that the kind of prayer call we recently saw in Western Aarhus in Gellerupparken is, in my view, presumptuous to the citizens living nearby. The question of a possible ban on prayer calls also raises a large number of questions, which I have decided will be examined in greater detail, a number of difficult legal issues. For example: Of course, a ban aimed solely at calling for prayers by Muslim religions will not be in line with the bans on discrimination set out in both the Basic Law and the European Convention on Human Rights. The question of whether a general ban can be imposed on loudspeaker-enhanced prayer calls within the framework of the Constitution and international obligations depends to a large extent on the design of the rules. It is therefore something that will require a closer legal assessment, and it is also a closer legal assessment that I have decided and will therefore initiate. So far we have seen a case of prayer calling in Gellerup in Aarhus. In April, I received a request from the Danish Islamic Religion, asking permission for prayer calls from their congregations during the covid-19. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration will therefore examine with the help of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs whether legislation on prayer calls has been introduced in other European countries. Such a study, regardless of the extent of the problem in Denmark, would be useful in relation to the legal clarification of the possibilities for a possible ban on prayer calls. So we share the concern that what we saw in Gellerup is the beginning of a trend, and so far we have given a yellow card. We have said that we do not believe that it belongs in Denmark, that we are aware of the problem and that we are now embarking on a legal cover so that we have clarified the reaction options that we have if the problem develops. We cannot support the motion for a resolution that is on the table here. But if there are more of this kind of examples of prayer calling, as we saw in Gellerup, we in the government are ready to look at the possibilities of legislation and whether we should go from the yellow card to the red card. And that is also why I have asked the official to undertake an investigation into whether prayer calls have been banned in other European countries, how they are linked together, and to take the initiative to clarify law in relation to the Danish constitution, so that we know the possibilities we have. I think that will be due care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623173027	There are a number of brief comments. First, it is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623173034	Thank you. The Constitution gives us freedom of belief, freedom of religion, but the Constitution does not give all people the right to perform any ritual that is religiously conditional in Denmark. It would be completely crazy if we still had to see witch burns, or if there were to be Indian cultures or religions that had as part of their ritual that one had to consume drugs that are not allowed in Denmark. There could also be other such macabre rituals, where we would say that what can of course take place cannot take place. An Islamic loudspeaker-enhanced prayer call is part of a ritual that has been introduced relatively recently, and which is not religion itself, but a ritual that shows that Islam is present in society, that people must bow to Islam, that they call to prayer for Islam. Can the Minister not see that there is a significant difference between freedom of religion and freedom to carry out rituals in connection with a religion?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623173144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623173146	I fully agree with the questioner that care should be taken to equate freedom of religion with the right to call to prayer. After all, there have been thousands of Muslims in Denmark for years who have practiced their religion, as they have now desired, with fasting, with prayer, and what else belongs, completely without prayer call. So we can at least conclude so far that it is possible to be a Muslim in Denmark without being called to prayer. So I would also be very careful to quickly equate a prayer call with an integral part of the fact that we have freedom of religion in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623173226	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623173228	Our dilemma in Denmark is that when we speak Islam, which is not only a religion but also a political ideology, we have to deal with a phenomenon that is pushing itself into our society. It is an ideology that contrasts with our freedom, our way of life, our democracy, and it is an ideology that has the effect on society that it does not allow secular legislation and the freedoms that we have. Is the Minister aware that it may not just be in this area, but in a number of other areas it may be necessary to break up with Islam?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623173310	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623173316	We have thousands of Muslims in Denmark who are able to practice their religion in the same way as thousands of Christians in Denmark are able to practice their religion, namely as a personal matter, something that one does not need to pull over the head of others, but where one rests in one's religion and practises it without being presumptuous towards other people. Then we just have to recognise that, unfortunately, among some Muslims in Denmark, there is a tendency to want to conquer public space and seem presumptuous, and then we get these discussions. There we must know our values and stand firm on what we stand for.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623173353	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623173354	After all, the Constitution states that we have freedom of religion, but that we are not allowed to learn anything contrary to public order and to custom. Does the Minister not think that public order is being seriously disturbed when there are roaring in addition to cities and squares on Arabic Friday or other days when prayer is called? It seems to me quite obvious that this cannot be very problematic and therefore it seems strange to me that it is quite impossible. But that is not what I wanted to ask, because I just want to make that clear. I would like to ask whether the Minister does not think that now that it turns out that three inquiries have been made to the Ministry of Churches to allow Islamic prayers to be called so now is the time for action. For in the past the Minister has said that there is no real reason for it now, and it may be a long way in the future that it will be a problem, and then we will have to take a position on it. But now three have arrived just recently. Isn't it now that you actually have to put your foot down?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623173458	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623173459	Now Mrs Marie Krarup says it is not possible, but I do not see it that way. I believe and hope that the legal cover for this will show that, of course, the Folketing has the opportunity if we want it. At any rate, that is why I have initiated the legal investigation, namely that I believe that we must have a proper decision-making basis on which to take such a decision. And then it is true that there is a lot of talk about Islam's presence in Denmark, and also about the elements of Islam that for some may seem presumptuous, including myself. However, I have to say that there has been no legal reference to the possibility of banning prayer calls. It is then set in motion now, and in this way we will also go one step further than we have been before. I am actually very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623173556	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623173557	It just sounds as if the Minister does not agree with me that freedom of religion does not cover everything. So, freedom of religion does not include things that learn something against custom and public order. I mean, human sacrifices are, for example. not allowed, even if it should be part of some religion, or sexual orgies in public places and such. This will be dealt with quite quickly. But does the Minister not really think that prayer calls really disturb public order and custom?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623173632	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623173633	Yes. As I also said in my speech, I would consider it quite presumptuous if I were going down to pick up Friday sweets in Føtex and a prayer call all of a sudden cried out over Albertslund Centrum. I would regard that as very presumptuous, and I would regard it as completely straight off the road, that it would be a task for the Folketing to face such a challenge. I haven't been in that situation. I note that there has been one prayer call in Aarhus, but I also note that it is a discussion that is going on in other European countries and that I myself have been approached by Islamic religions. In this way, I believe that it has moved from a purely theoretical discussion to something we should deal with. The first step is to clarify the legal framework for action against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623173716	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623173718	The Minister says that he does not think that prayer calls belong in Denmark because it will be presumptuous, but just afterwards the Minister then spends a great deal of time explaining why the Minister will not do anything about the problem. I think it is only wrong to arrive at the analysis that the challenges we face with parallel societies and the general challenges of integration that we face in Denmark are due to the fact that the rules with which we have met new entrants are too tight. I think the exact opposite is the case. We have not been clear enough about what behaviour we expect here in Denmark of those who come here, what is acceptable and what is not acceptable. And we only know from everyone from our neighbouring countries that prayer calls have become a problem there, and now we can see that the problem is growing in Denmark. So my simple question to the Minister is actually: when is this problem big enough for the Minister to take action?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623173825	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623173826	I very much agree that we are facing these challenges, among others. because we are not clear enough about what our values are and because we are not good enough to stand firm on them. But this is not the first time that the Folketing has a value-political discussion about how Islam works in Danish society. Now I have taken over the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration after a Left Minister, and I have looked in drawers and cupboards and under carpets, and there is no legal assessment of the possibilities of imposing a ban on prayer calls. There is plenty of talk and lots of controversy, but no one has sat down and quite low-practically figured out how we really do. And this is the first step: to find out what the relationship with the Constitution is, what the relationship with the European Convention on Human Rights is, what the relationship with the Order is, what the relationship with the discussions about the role of religion in society is. That's how it starts, that's how you act, not when you talk, and that's where this government is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623173923	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623173924	This is actually an answer that surprises me a little bit, because we have also discussed it here with the Minister in a conciliation meeting, and there said the Minister and now I shall try to quote as precisely as possible that the Minister was not convinced that this was a problem that would be large enough for the Minister to think that action should be taken against it. That is why I would like to hear the Minister's political attitude, because the Minister is also a politician, in addition to being the chief executive in a ministry: what is the Minister's political attitude to this? How big will the Minister allow this problem to grow before the Minister, like the Left, is ready to take action?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623174003	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623174004	My political opinion is that we should not have prayer calls other than the rooftops in Denmark. That is my political position. I also maintain my assessment that we do not yet know whether this is a phenomenon that is going to be in Denmark or whether it was a lone swallow on a football field in Gjellerup in coronaland. We don't know. But what I know is that we have now been approached by the Danish Islamic Religion, and Mr. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party has drawn my attention to a discussion in Sweden, and I can see that other European countries are discussing it too, and that is why I think it is timely care that we now clarify the reaction options that we have here in the Folketing, and that is what we are doing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623174040	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623174044	Yes, it will be interesting what the legal assessments are like. I often sit on Sunday mornings, it's where I spend most of my time with my wife, and in these times we sit outside enjoying a nice breakfast with juice and coffee for • and all of a sudden it starts to bam down in the square. We live very close to the square. Then the church must point out that the operation is about to start when it is ten o'clock. We sit and laugh at it and say that we think we're gonna settle for the coffee and not go to the church today. All of a sudden, my radio is filled with a priest and church song and stuff. We are also smiling at that, because we think it is a little bit often that Denmark's Radio should be missionary. But we do not complain about it, because we are such spacious people. Nor do I mind if a Muslim should stand in a tower and shout a little over the city, if it was an opportunity to live a good life. What is it that makes us, like, have to restrict ourselves and be non-spaceable?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623174208	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623174209	If I was sitting in my garden with a cup of coffee and with my wife, I'd be a little annoyed if there was a guy in a tower yelling a little over town. I think there's a difference. If we flew to a new planet and had to establish a new society, completely without culture and history, completely from scratch, I am absolutely certain that we would have had a different distinction between church and state than there is in the Danish constitution. But we're not flying to another planet. After all, we live in a particular place with a particular story and culture. We live in a country with a deep Christian cultural heritage, and we have to start from that. Otherwise, we'll be rootless. And that's exactly what I sometimes see as the problem, if there's too much value relativism in these discussions, that's that we're losing touch with our own history and who we ourselves are. And then it's that we're also going to assess just making the problems of parallel societies and integration bigger. This is an excellent opportunity to tell the people who have come here that we have freedom of religion in Denmark, but that we do not have religious equality. There is an opportunity to practice his religion in Denmark and we will go far for your right to practise your religion, but there is no equality of religion
ParlaMint-DK_20200623174321	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623174322	Well, value relativism only arises when you say that one religion has special rights and must noisy everything they want and that the other religion must not do so because it is not in our culture. Well, I can complain when there's a rock concert down in Silkeborg, where there's 3-5,000 people giving it too much noise, or when there's noise on a car park we have right next to the city, if I'm with friends there. Because I think there must be a certain level of sound there. It's practical, because I think it's really annoying when the sound's too loud. I'd like the church bells, too, and when a Muslim imam yells from a tower. It's allowed to be subdued. But value relativism is when you say this is okay, and this isn't okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623174405	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623174407	I don't think it's value relativism. I live next to a medieval church; I think it's from the 1100s. It is part of our cultural heritage, it is part of our history, and the ringing of the bells when there is a service is also part of our cultural heritage. I think this is quite natural and legitimate, and I do not think it is possible to compare it and say that it is the same thing, that a mosque is then opened and that they stand in a tower and shout a little over the rooftops. I don't see it that way at all. I see it as a right to practise one's religion, and if they want to shout, they can do it inside the mosque. When they enter the territory of the community, they should not be presumptuous towards the surrounding community if they are Muslims in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623174448	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623174450	When we were discussing this issue recently, it was my clear feeling that the Minister did not think that the problem was big enough yet for us to do something about it here and now we had to observe it more. Now we are standing here a few days later, and I sense that the Minister has a completely new attitude and that we must now examine the legal basis and so on. Can I ask the Minister to explain what has been done, that we have now started to do so, and I would like to acknowledge that in order to examine the legal basis for this, I assume that he will act in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623174525	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623174527	I am still away from the conviction that a single ghetto blaster on a football field in Gellerup does not necessarily have to get the Folketing to adopt new legislation. But I also have to acknowledge that the ghetto blaster is not alone in getting calls from Islamic religions, which drive several different mosques, and we can see that it is a discussion in other countries. And then I think it's timely care that we settle the law if there are more prayer calls going through late summer and we have to, as a Parliament, deal with what we do about it. Then I would very much hate to stand as a minister and say that we should start by clarifying the law, because I do not think that would be due diligence. So now we have given yellow cards to the ghetto blaster in Gellerup, and if there is to be a red card, we need to know what kind of legal basis we are doing it on, and that is why we have now started to examine what action we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623174617	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623174619	But I saw the answer to the question put to the Minister, and there was the answer that there had been these three requests. So these are three questions that the Minister must have been aware of when the Minister last said that the problem was not great enough. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623174640	At any rate, I myself received one request from Islamic religions asking for permission to make prayer calls, and there I replied that I could not give it permission, nor could I refuse because there is no legislation regulating it. So the questioner is right that that information is not new to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623174651	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Minister, so we are starting with the rapporteur's series. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Stoklund from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623174708	About a week ago, we were discussing a proposal that had something similar to what we are discussing today. The essence of the proposal is to ban prayer calls so that we do not see séances like the one that played out in the Gellerup Park in April. Here a Muslim prayer call went out over a residential area, and such things should never become everyday in Denmark. The difference between the two motions for resolutions is, as far as I can see, a few linguistic changes which ensure that we now remain within the framework of the constitution. And I have a bit of difficulty in seeing the relevance of the fact that we are now going to present the same arguments for each other as we did well and well a week ago, but I am, of course, standing up when a number of parties in the Folketing want a re-exportation. I could better understand the enthusiasm of blue blocs for having found common ground in a foreign policy case if it contained a real foreign policy disagreement with social democracy, because I sense that this is often what you are looking for. As you know, it does not. The position of social democracy is as clear as it was last week. If prayer calls suddenly become something that starts to become more frequent, the Folketing must step in and make sure it is stopped. We don't want prayer calls in Denmark like what we saw in Aarhus recently. The reality is that we have a broad-based majority which ensures a strict foreign policy in Denmark, regardless of what is said in the comments to this motion for a resolution. The paradigm shift is in effect. The rules for family reunification, permanent residence and citizenship are exactly the same as before the elections. On the other hand, we in the Social Democratic Party want to tighten up further, among other things. the conditions for obtaining citizenship, which is why the Minister has also announced negotiations. What may seem a little comical is that the tumorous rhetoric in the political remarks to this motion for a resolution is a little poorly related to what the blue parties themselves have delivered, except, of course, New Citizens, because, as you know, they were not responsible for what has happened here in Parliament before the parliamentary elections Constitutional Day last year. In 2015, it flooded across the Danish borders with refugees and migrants. The left-wing government was completely paralysed, and we all remember the scenes from the motorways back then. The Danish People's Party, which at that time was the biggest party in the blue block, sat on its hands and did nothing. The problems of those days continue to contend with, and that task is still unsolved. On the other hand, the blue parties of the Folketing deserve praise for putting mandates for the broadly anchored policy of foreigners together with the social democracy. But it has a comical glow when what you can then disc up with for the second time in two weeks is a proposal where we agree on the substance, that is that we do not want prayer calls in Denmark. In social democracy, we only have the slightly more pragmatic approach of waiting to legislate until we know if there is a problem. For the time being, Muslims have lived in Denmark for four or five decades, and I know there has been one prayer call in that time. Of course, the matter will be different serious if it should eventually turn out that prayer calls will be a problem. In this situation, too, we in the Social Democratic Party are ready to intervene, and if that day comes, I look forward to working together on it. I look forward to repeating last week's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623175026	Thank you, and there are some brief comments. First, it is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623175031	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur mentions immigration policy, which obviously still has a number of shortcomings, but this is just as much about value policy. So, what should Islam's influence on our society be, and what should it not be? It is clear that the more Muslims who come here, the more influence there is the risk of Islam getting on our society. The rapporteur himself and the Minister say that they do not want it here in Denmark. Then you wait for this to be a problem in Denmark. It may be that there have not been many prayer calls in Denmark and have not been many requests for prayer calls in Denmark, but Islam is a problem in our society. Can the rapporteur not agree to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623175140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623175141	Well, I agree that this is value policy, and I agree that we should not have prayer calls in Denmark. We cannot disagree on this, and I would also like to sign for the fine video that Mrs Pernille Vermund's party did on the basis of the debate last time we had it and in which I was allowed to play a part. I shared it myself diligently both on Facebook and Twitter, because I think it actually finely summed up the discussion. After all, it showed that we agree on the bottom line that we should not have prayer calls in Denmark. That's the way it is, we won't disagree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623175213	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623175214	However, the question is whether one is willing to accept and assume the responsibility of ensuring that Islam is pushed back. In an ideal society, it would be something that was solved in civil society or with the good intentions that you have when you recommend Muslims and imams, and what else is, to refrain from doing so here. But we can just see how civil society has not done this task. I am not and we are not advocating a lot of legislation, but when we see that Islam, with gender-based swimming lessons and special requirements everywhere, is pushing for legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623175254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623175255	I would agree with that if we saw a great spread of prayer calls and had done so in the past months and years, but we just haven't. We have known one prayer call, and therefore I do not agree that it can be concluded at this stage that civil society's appeal and appeal, the marking and signal from a large majority of the Folketing members that we do not want prayer calls in Denmark in this way, are not taken seriously and that the consequence of that appeal will not be that we will not see prayer calls in the future in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623175330	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623175333	There were Danes who went to the United States a hundred and a half years ago because there was little work in Denmark. Sometimes they carried on a religion, Mormons, and others. They built churches, and they brought traditions from where they came from. They cast a bell and placed it up at the top of the church and glamoured every Sunday. What if they had said in the United States that we can't do that? It's against our culture. You can't do that. You may have your faith, but that... Think if it happened nowadays in Danish societies in the United States, in Asia or elsewhere, where Danes settle, that it started to say that it doesn't fit with their culture. Then there would be an outcry from both bourgeois Danes and probably also from some of the most nervous social democrats. What is the reason why we have so little confidence in our own culture and values that we need to resort to bans because we do not believe that this society can stand up to the diversity of cultures?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623175443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623175444	I do not recognise the comparison with the United States, which, by its very nature, is an immigrant nation and which, even today, is built in a way contrary to our social model. The Americans have built a social model with closed boxes and open borders, roughly speaking. We have the opposite. We have open boxes for virtually everyone who is within the borders and, on the other hand, we must have relatively closed borders. The reason why such a model as ours can be linked in the long term and sustainable is that one cannot just say that we can act as if we were an immigrant nation, because then it would not be coherent. The basis on which it can be linked is that there is a relatively high degree of homogeneity in our cultural vision, habits, lifestyles, values, attitudes and, at the same time, a relatively high level of economic equality. Both are a prerequisite for the trust that is put in our social model and that ensures that we are willing to pay, for example. a very high tax and redistribute to each other. If you put it at risk, and I think you do, if you just compare us with traditional immigrant nations, then we can say goodbye to the welfare state as we know it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623175557	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623175559	I am sorry, then, to have to plead a little with the Socialist rapporteur. I'm just reading a few history books from the turn of the century when the workers' movement was formed. After all, there was a very clear position from the Socialists and the workers' movement that grew up on religion at all. At that time, if we were to have a community of solidarity and equality, we would have had to have neither a national church nor any other influence in society. I believe that religions can be in society, but they must not have a political and tone-setting influence on our society. It must, of course, be democratic. It is totally mistaken that a religious struggle is now being waged on the part of the Social Democrats and is totally turning its back on the original idea of solidarity and the creation of an equal society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623175647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623175648	I am not sure that I fully understand the question or the comment in this, but I do not see the slightest unsolidarity in making demands and having expectations for people who come to Denmark, and I do not think that in any way it can be expected that the majority of the Danish population will receive the vast majority of us except the rapporteur and his wife. In fact, it is not good that we have church bells and it is not something that bothers us. It is perfectly legitimate for us to say: The church ecclesiasticals are welcome, but we are not interested in all kinds of other prayer calls.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623175729	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623175731	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund for the speech. I actually thought I had seen the worst of socialist storytelling when I saw down in the Social Democrats' group room that the man behind the snitch speech, Vilhelm Buhl, had been painted at the head of a fishing boat who sailed Jews to Sweden, but Mr. Stoklund has shown today that in many other ways the Social Democrats want to rewrite history. But back to substance, sir. Stoklund mentions several times that we agree on the substance here, namely that we do not want prayer calls. I just want to say that we do not agree. So, in the Left, we think the problem is already so great that we should not look at the time. In the social democracy one wants to look at the time and not react now. That's why I'd just like to ask Mr. Stoklund: What is it that gets Mr. Stoklund to think this problem isn't gonna grow any bigger?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623175830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623175831	It is that Muslims have lived in Denmark for 4-5 decades, and in that time I have been known to have seen one prayer call. I find it a little difficult to understand this, in my opinion, a little snug criticism from the Left and Mr Seligman. Morten Dahlin. Well, who delivers when it comes down to it, and how anchored is this in your own party? Sir. Morten Dahlin's chairman changed me to another party under Mr. Naser Khader's leadership, referring to the tone of the debate a number of years ago, and less than a week ago, I think, there was a large group of Social Democrats in Holbæk who, despite opposition from the local left, ensured that there was no new large mosque building in a socially disadvantaged residential area. What did the Left do? The exact opposite: voted in favour. Now we are sucking around in this prayer call debate, and I think that is a good thing, but I just think it is a little strange, since we agree that we do not want prayer calls in Denmark, that we are so concerned about whether the ban is imposed if the problem arises or whether it is introduced in a hypothetical situation where the problem does not exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623175941	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623175942	But we simply do not agree. In other words, the problem exists and if the Social Democrats really meant it, as Mr. Stoklund stands and says from the platform now, that you don't want prayer calls, you can just vote in favour and then ban these noisy prayer calls. And in relation to mosques, it is, as far as I know, the current government, which has a minister appointed by the Prime Minister and who, when she was mayor of Roskilde, took part in events and in the celebration of a mosque where men and women sat apart and were not allowed to shake hands with each other. So there's Mr. I don't think there's anything to let us hear about. I would just like to ask again: what exactly does Mr. Stoklund convinced that this problem is not going to grow?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623180023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623180024	But nothing has convinced me of that, and if it is going to grow, we will do something about it. After all, the Minister has also indicated that he is examining the legal basis for action. And it is once again a task of cleaning up after the former VLAK government, which did not take responsibility in this area either to provide a legal basis or to examine what is really up and down if you are going to take this kind of step at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623180053	There is a brief comment from Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623180056	I think that the rapporteur's sarcasm towards the Danish People's Party in the previous period has been extremely misplaced. The Danish People's Party fought with arms and legs, and we fought everything we could, against immigration and against Islamisation. Time and again we have tabled motions to oppose Islamisation, to ban Islamic scarves in schools and in public educational institutions, to ban praying rooms, to get food hallmarked, to opt out, and to ban gender-separated swimming lessons. Everywhere we have been at the forefront of that cultural struggle against Islamism. So it's pretty grotesque to hear that we shouldn't have done anything. But it is quite correct that the Left did nothing. They weren't interested in it. We know from Bertel Haarder that he was not a minister of scarves, liver mail and shower curtains, because it was clearly beneath the dignity of the Left to deal with. So it is true that the Blue Government was not very interested either. But one should have become wiser in the social democracy and understand that it is an important struggle to fight the cultural struggle against Islamisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623180208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623180209	My intention is not to be sarcastic about the Danish People's Party. I just relate to the bottom line; i.e., the Danish People's Party was the largest party in the blue block during the previous reign. There were a number of problems in the field of foreigners. As Mrs Krarup mentioned, you often jumped up like lions, and you always fell like lamb when Mr Krarup. Morten Dahlin and Mr. Mads Fuglede's party, Left, refused to follow some of the suggestions made by the Danish People's Party in this area. That is why I do not think that, since it has been mostly in the rhetoric of both the Danish People's Party and the Left in the field of foreigners, we have so much to let the current government hear, because it is actually trying to solve some of these problems too because of everything we have agreed together and which I think is good. The paradigm shift is in effect, there is no change in a comma.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623180304	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623180306	That is so wrong. The paradigm shift has just changed today. So it's completely wrong. Besides, sir... Rasmus Stoklund, despite being here for only a year, has found out that there must be 90 seats for a majority. 37 seats cannot change Denmark's policy on foreigners. And the problem has been that there have been two wings that did not want what the 37 seats of the Danish People's Party in the last session wanted. So, unfortunately, we couldn't do much more. We would have liked that very much. But that should not, of course, deprive the Socialists of the opportunity to continue the fight against Islamisation that we believe should be waged.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623180348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623180350	No, but it was nevertheless 37 mandates that accepted Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's zeal in the field of foreign policy and that it was not possible to solve a large number of the problems that we faced and which we are trying to clean up. It is really a pity that the debates we have down here must always be so polemical and so acidic and bitter. Because I really welcome the fact that there is a broad majority in favour of strict foreign policy in Denmark. I think it would be better if we could work together on this instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623180426	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623180428	But there is no consensus on a broad policy in this area if the Social Democrats do not want to act now. What do you think, sir? Rasmus Stoklund, who is the purpose of the inquiries that have come to the Minister, about prayer calls? There is always reference to the fact that there has been only one case. Do we not think that the three further requests that have been made are also with a desire to make prayer calls?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623180453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623180455	Otherwise, I would be surprised to hear such a request. But then I also hope that those who send them may be watching Parliament television or reading the paper and seeing that Mr. Mads Fuglede's party, the signatory's party and a number of other parties here in the Folketing do not want prayer calls, and if it becomes a reality with prayer calls in Denmark, we will do everything we can to take action against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623180516	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623180518	But it is a good realization that the Social Democratic Party has made itself there. Then you should just act, because then there is empiri that here we have a problem that grows as it does, everywhere, and don't just kick this question to the corner, but vote for this and make sure that we don't get high prayer calls in the public space in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623180538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623180540	The Empire was in place if prayer calls actually took place. Our attitude to implementing legislation is, of course, that there must be a problem that the legislation we are implementing solves, and not that we need to legislate in order to make videos for Facebook or send smart signals to the public. But I understand that this is where a common ground has apparently been found among the blue parties, and that is also fine, and that is why we are taking the debate for the second time in a week and a half, but the empire is still missing. If it should come, it is clear that we must take joint action.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623180615	A package. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623180636	Thank you for the floor. We are here today on the basis of a motion for a resolution from the New Citizens' Party to ban prayer calls in public spaces. Thank you very much to New Citizens for raising this very relevant debate and thank you to the Danish People's Party, which has previously raised this debate many entries. Thank you to the Conservative People's Party for being co-sponsors of this resolution. Denmark must be a country where prayer calls should not be made loudly in public space. That is the position of the Left. Danish tradition, the culture of which we are rounded up, is what we are. When we experience a prayer call, like what we saw recently in Gellerup, I get worried because it moves on the whole basis of who we really are, because that is not the Denmark I know. We must say 'no' to that. We must say no to prayer calls in public spaces, it does not belong in Denmark. In addition, prayer calls and similar religious expressions are a noise nuisance. Just as we do not want noise from transport and industry, we also do not want noise from prayer calls. Our residential areas must be kept free of noise nuisances. In Denmark we have freedom of religion, and we strongly support that in the Left. You have to believe what you want, but we don't have religion. That is why the Left is in favour of a ban on loudspeaker-enhanced prayer calls in public spaces. Denmark is a Christian country where church bells ring and have been doing so for a thousand years. The National Church has a special status in the Constitution, so church bells must of course not be included in the ban. The ban must, of course, be within the framework of the Constitution, and we are also sure that it can, when we have the legal basis for this over here in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration and the Ministry of Justice, so that we can make a legislative proposal that complies with the requirements of the resolution. It is important that there are clear rules in this area so that it is not up to each municipality to decide on the problem. There's a need for the same rules in this area. It is now the case that there is no basis for saying yes to it, but there is also no basis for rejecting it. We therefore recommend that the parties of the Folketing vote in favour of the motion for a resolution and look forward to the further examination of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623180856	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623180859	When can we expect from highly educated people a debate that is a little more open and nuanced and for that matter also factually? Denmark is not a Christian country. Can't we soon get a stake through it? There are many Christians in Denmark, but I'm not a Christian, I'm not out of a Christian tradition, I'm not out of a Christian environment, but I have great respect for people who are believers and belong to some religious community. But don't hugg us all and say that's the way it is, and that so one-track are all Danes. That's not true. There are many Christians and there are many Christians who are diverse in their expressions and believe that diversity is a strength and that there must be room for everyone in our society, as long as we do not harm others. When can we go back to the track, which is what basically characterises at least the Denmark I know?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623181001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623181002	Of course Denmark is a Christian country. Denmark is rounded by Christian values, and it is so rounded by them that one has chosen to make the Lutheran-Evangelical Church a church that has a special status in the Constitution. We would not recognize the society we have today if we did not have the Christian cultural heritage that we have been carrying since Ansgar Christianized the Danes. That's the gifted answer to that question. Of course, there are people in Denmark who are not Christians, and I have no problem with that, but it does not change what our common historical heritage is, how we have shaped these institutions and how Christianity has influenced our society for generations. I know that there is a semantic debate about whether a country can be Christian or whether it is a people who are Christian, but I think that is a strange debate. It is the same as saying that it cannot be said that Denmark is a democratic country because it is the citizens who are democratic. I don't know if that's the lead the questioner wants to take down.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623181103	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623181105	Yes, because I put a great deal of distance to countries that want to dictate that their country is Muslim or something else, because that is something that cannot be dictated. People are diverse, and people have different religious and cultural perceptions. If you were to say anything about Danish culture, it is rounded by the solidarity of the workers' movement and the ideas of equality. It has been rounded up by the cooperatives of the rural movement and the idea that we should help each other and that we should build society together. These are values that are common to the Danes. These are values that demand spaciousness and not narrow-trackness, where they say that our religion is better than that of the others.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623181147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623181148	Well then, the questioner will also know that all these common values, which are also part of Danish culture, are values that are also anchored in the debate that has been about Christianity in Denmark. They are inextricably linked. If you look at the high school movement or the cooperative movement, then you have had the debate about what role religion should play in public space, and it was also something that the former workers' movement had as one of its most important themes. It's been part of what we're rounded up and made of.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623181215	Mrs. Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623181216	Yes, thank you. I have stumbled upon something, a few words, in the text itself, to which I would like an explanation. It says: "The Danish Parliament instructs the government to put forward legislative proposals by the end of 2020 prohibiting loudspeaker-enhanced prayer calls and then comes the words: "and similar religious statements in public space." What does it mean when it says: "And similar religious expressions? ' If you said yes to this, what are you committing to?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623181254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623181306	You undertake, if you can make prayer calls in other ways than loudspeaker-enhanced prayer calls, that it is also included in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623181314	Mrs. Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623181315	Does this mean that you should not stand in some corner of something and speak with your own voice, as I do here? What kind of order do you disturb by standing in a corner of a house that you use as a mosque and saying, "Now there's prayer calling here?" Who bothers?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623181332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623181334	I'm not quite sure I understand the question. The fact that you stand up and have a religious conversation in public space is not what is meant here; it is meant to call for prayer in public space so that it disturbs public order.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623181349	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623181352	I would actually just like to sign for the part of the speech that was not about criticising the Social Democracy, because I think that there are basically some good reflections, not least in the response to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. I think that's a good way, sir. Mads Birded gets off against the value relativism that often sneaks in when we have this kind of debate. I think it is a good thing that we in the Danish Parliament can say 'no' to it and be quite open about the fact that we are, of course, a Christian country. I also do not care about the semantic discussion about it, and I fully agree with Mr. Mads Fuglede in it, but also in signalling that the popular communities • the cooperative movement, the workers' movement etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623181455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623181457	I do not hear any question, so I cannot therefore answer anything other than to express satisfaction that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund has found a rare occasion to praise something I say from up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623181513	Thank you. It does not look as if there are any follow-up questions, but there is a brief comment from Mr Beazley. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623181520	Yes, it is just about the question of whether Denmark is a Christian country. I just want to know whether the rapporteur agrees with or can confirm that all Danish legislation since the Middle Ages until the Reformation has been marked by instructions or bids, or what to say that came from Rome, for example. The manslaughter regulation in the year 1200, which makes manslaughter illegal and makes Denmark stop being a vendetta society like the Icelandic community. In other words, our legislation has been Christian since the Middle Ages and it has had a profound impact on all people's perceptions of guilt and responsibility, for example. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623181559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623181600	Yes, the rapporteur can confirm that. Many of the principles that are in Christianity, in jus talionis and others, are principles that have slipped into Danish legislation, also the times when we have treated them in such a way that we have said no to them being the way we formulate public legislation. So thinking Denmark without our Christian heritage is for a historian like me something that is actually quite impossible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623181628	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623181629	The second question is not about legislation at all, but is just this question: if you turn our flag 90 degrees, what is the white figure in the flag?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623181642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623181644	This is what is so strange to discuss whether Denmark is a Christian country when we have a cross in our national symbol. But it's something that can make some people wonder.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623181701	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623181713	The Danish People's Party is a co-author of this proposal. It must come up against the fears of other parties to use the word Islamic in a motion for a resolution. The Danish People's Party intended to table an amendment to the New Citizens' motion for a resolution from last week against Islamic prayer calls. We wanted the motion for a resolution, No 1, tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group), to be put to the vote at the next voting time. 174 should also include calls to prayer, which are not loudspeaker reinforced. But when we were asked whether we wanted to be included in this proposal, we said, of course, okay. We have that attitude, it doesn't matter whether the cat is gray or black, because as long as it can catch mice, it is crucially fulfilled. This resolution hits prayer calls, and that is what we want to fight. It should not be part of Danish society. We have ensured that the resolution is also aimed at non-speaker-enhanced prayer calls. That is what I would say to Mrs Marianne Jelved, who I think should be in the word: and other religious expressions. It's prayer calls that aren't loudspeaker reinforced. At least that is why we agreed to participate in the partnership. We had a deadline of about five seconds to make the decision. And then this resolution ensures that church bells aren't hit. That is why the proposal does what we want. That says 'no' to Islamisation, and that says 'yes' to Christian Danish culture. The Christian Danish culture must, of course, continue to be the leading one in Denmark. We are just in a cultural struggle against Islamisation, where Islamism sneaks in everywhere, and it is important to put our foot down. Even if there are some in this Chamber who have not quite realised that this is where we stand, there are places where Islamism sneaks in. We need to stop that, and we need to use the weapons we have. One of the important weapons we have in this fight is to use the law. But in addition, the most important weapon we have is to provide education, education, training in what the Danish culture consists of; to teach the children Danish history and Christianity; to retell history; to keep literature and the song treasure alive. It is the most important weapon against Islamisation, so that we can preserve our free, Danish, Christian, democratic culture in Denmark. If we do not fight Islamisation, the free, Danish, democratic, Christian culture will be the history of one or two generations, and that would be a very, very great accident. That's why it's important that we start this process. We have been doing this for a very long time in the Danish People's Party. We have tabled countless resolutions to counter Islamisation. We did not get very many people to vote in favour, I admit, but that is why it is of course a pleasure that the Left has suddenly agreed to this. We really appreciate this, and we hope that our policy will soon be taken over by the Social Democratic Party too. They tend to use our used policy, and that's what you are, so I'm sure it'll come sometime. I just wish that the process could be speeded up, because it is a pity to take the necessary precautions only when it is straight on a hanging hair. One should be foresight and take precautions before the disaster strikes or before one really faces major problems. But, of course, I would urge everyone to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623182139	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623182144	Thank you. I have to say that I am actually rather surprised to hear that Mrs Krarup has no confidence whatsoever that the Christian faith will remain in Denmark in a few years' time. I'm really, really surprised about that. I have no doubt that it will. So it was just a comment. But then I have a question and it is still gone about the words that I do not understand and which I think are incomprehensible and which I think are like a coverless check in reality. I quote from the remarks: "In addition, prayer calls and similar religious expressions are a noise nuisance. Just as we do not want noise from transport etc. etc. But I was told just before that in reality the words of similar religious expressions mean that it is prayer calling without loudspeaker reinforcement. Then I don't even understand what it says there. It is a noise nuisance, says the comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623182251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623182252	Now I can't just find the text, but yes, it's a noisy, that is, prayer call is clearly a noisy, besides being missionary too. But what we put in this sentence and similar religious statements in the public space is prayer calls without reinforcement, for it says that it is aimed at loudspeaker-enhanced prayer calls. Then we see religious expressions as unenforceable prayer calls. We would have preferred to have written Islamic prayer calls, but then someone does not want to do that, and then it gets louder, i.e. this formulation. But in addition, as to whether I trust the Christian faith will survive, I quote Cromwell, who said: Trust in God, and keep the powder dry. It is true that of course you have to trust that you will manage what you have to trust, that our Lord will save us, but if we do not pull ourselves together and do something and keep the powder dry, then it is not certain that it will work. So we cannot just let ourselves be washed over with culturally alien rituals and initiatives in Denmark and then believe that Denmark remains a Christian.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623182406	Marine Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623182408	I'm still really surprised to hear Mrs Krarup say that. I am a believer myself, and I have no doubt that the Danish faith, if I may say so, will remain forever in this country. It is not threatened in any way whatsoever. That is why I do not understand the relentless feeling of Mrs Krarup at all. I must say that I am surprised, and it does not require an answer, but I would like to express my surprise.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623182438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623182438-2	Mrs. Marianne Jelved has a clear answer. I am a high school teacher in religion, I know what it's like to receive 15-year-old students who don't know a piece about Christianity and who have been told strange things. How can one be sure that Christianity will be in a country where the level of information is so low? They may never have been to a church. There is a great deal of need for good education and upbringing in Denmark in order for Christianity to continue to be here. There is absolutely no need for Islam to penetrate the areas where Christianity should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623182518	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623182520	That's a report, though. I am living in the illusion that I think I live in one of the most enlightened societies, both because we have a free press and we have very much access to libraries and the Internet and all have a relatively high education. I do not have such a fine education as the rapporteur, I admit that, because I have never attended a university, but I have been educated through my life, which I am really, really happy about and think is valuable. I would say that I will fight to the end for Christians to be allowed to keep their religion in Denmark if it proves to be threatened at some point. I have never seen it, however, because nobody wants to ban it in Denmark. There are some in other countries who want to patent it, and I fear that Christian crusaders in Denmark will start to patent it so much that they say it is a dominant religion and that it must have every right and that the others are only here at our mercy, because then I fear that the Christian faith will have problems. And I would like to say that what the rapporteur said about education, I fully agree with it, because it is a good weapon. It's also knowing I'm reading some books about it at the moment that the church ignored the witch persecutions, and it's knowing that it has killed people in God's name etc. etc. It's formation. I hope that's in high school.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623182646	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623182648	What we are talking about today is this discussion about what Islam should fill in Danish society. And Islam must fill very, very little. We have freedom of religion, but that does not mean that we should fill the public space or our educational institutions with Islam. There must be room for the free Danish democratic, Christian life that we have been used to for centuries. And in order to stop the advance of Islam, we need to make some rules, because it is too difficult for the individual head of the school, the individual head of a swimming pool or the individual head of a nursing home every time to set out the rules to follow to prevent Islam from invading, and Islam penetrates. That's why we have to have those rules. As I said, there are many people who have not at any time acquired the necessary knowledge of their own culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623182800	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623182802	Yes, but I would like to say that in the case of those people who have so little faith in their own culture and their own conviction that they go to bans, I would like to have a discussion on how we help them and that is where I think the rapporteur too. If the rapporteur does not have so much faith in his own arguments and beliefs, even in the midst of a privileged situation where she is both a politician and a teacher of young people, then we are not very well off in this respect. That's always what I've learned, and that's what I've seen in my life, so that's actually what's forming, and you don't have to be afraid to believe in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623182850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623182851	If we give free play to Islamization in Denmark with public prayer calls, with e.g. kindergarten teachers and nurses etc. With Islamic scarf, Islam will come to stand stronger, stronger and stronger, and the resulting unfree culture will gain ground. It is a bad approach, it is wrong and it is a huge failure to our children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren, because they must also have the opportunity to live in a free, democratic Christian country. They should not risk living in an Islamic dictatorship.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623182930	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623182933	Thank you. I would like to comment on the fact that Mrs Marie Krarup says that the Social Democratic Party is welcome to take over the used politics of the Danish People's Party, but that is not how I see it. I mean, I think that if this is going to be a problem, it's politics we have to implement together. So it is not something about taking over someone's policy; it is something about us having to do this together. When we discussed this a week ago, I used a metaphor from the garden, and I did not have such an undivided luck, because Mrs Pernille Vermund, in particular, made a lot of fun of it afterwards. So now I come with someone else, and it can become a self-target again: But, figuratively speaking, you shouldn't put out the roof or other summer flowers until the frost is gone. And a little the same: you have to do things when they are relevant. If there's a problem, you have to solve it. There is no problem right now, and that is why our view is that we should not resolve it. But you can then prepare yourself. Just as you can plant roofs in greenhouses and prepare them, you can prepare yourself. You can make a legal basis ready if the problem arises. We do not yet know if it does; if it does, we have policies that we can jointly use to avoid prayer calls in future Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623183037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623183038	I don't know that summer flower taken. I don't know that one. I don't have it in my pots. I have a lot of pots, and I'll put them out once the frost is gone. But there is, of course, a concept of due diligence, and it is, of course, that when you see that something is going on, you take precautions to deal with it. And we can see that this is We must make it quite clear to the entire population of Denmark that there is a leading culture in Denmark, and that is the free Christian democratic Danishness, and it must of course be the dominant one. And there is no religion in Denmark. We have to do this quite clearly. It is timely care to do so now that we can see that it is drawing up a cultural clash and that we already have cultural clashes in the ghettos. So, of course, it makes sense to do so now. This is the timing on which we disagree, and I believe that when you have government responsibilities, you should use the means of power you have. So that's why it's time to get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623183156	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623183157	I agree with that with due diligence, and that is actually what I was trying to get to, in other words, the fact that the legal basis is part of it. If you don't even have it, you can't do anything. That's pretty much it. In addition, with regard to rooftops, I can say that if I manage to move on a little with those I have standing on a bench now, I will have to bring one to Mrs Krarup before the summer break.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623183221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623183222	Now you can send photos of flowers very quickly, so I can probably quickly clear up what it is, and of course I would be grateful for that. But I would say with regard to this legal basis: well, come on, how many times have we discussed this? It can't be that hard to figure this out. So if this is just what this is all about, I expect that, before we go on summer vacation, we should actually be able to have a legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623183252	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, Mrs Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623183304	Thank you. Freedom of religion matters anyway. See, this is a tiny book that I carry around in my bag, and it's the Constitution in all its power and might, and I'm just quoting §69: "The conditions of deviant religions are arranged more closely by law." It was really foresight seen by the constitutional fathers who were once, and it also means that it expresses trust and respect and recognition of different religions, and it is also worth noting that that is what it is all about in the Constitution. Paragraph 70 also states, and I quote: 'No one can be deprived of access to the full enjoyment of civil and political rights or of the fulfilment of any ordinary civic duty by reason of his creed or descent. These are both paragraphs that I think are very, very central to our society and to the world we live in, because we have an international world where we all, or at least a lot of us, move around, no matter where we come from, and therefore it is also important that you have the kind of freedoms that freedom of belief or religion is. So it is not a wish in the Constitution that it should be made more and more difficult to have a religion that is different from the religion of the majority. On the contrary, the Constitution actually protects the right that one has as a minority in a country with one great religion, that is, with many citizens who share the same religion. For thousands of years, however, it has also been the lot of Jews to experience different forms of discrimination from the religions of the majority, and it must at least give me cause for thought. I hope that we in Denmark will not transfer that kind of feeling to other religions. The Radical Left cannot support the motion for a resolution. We cannot recommend increasing centralisation in society. In fact, we want to counteract increasing centralisation. We believe that it is in local and close life that the relevant solutions to behavior are found in the communities and in traditional rights. This is, of course, what has been our historical characteristics, and the municipalities are very good at finding the solutions that suit their local communities together with the association life, which is very, very large in Denmark. This has been demonstrated by association for hundreds of years by its justification and values. Then I would like to remind you that it is not that long since we discussed something that looks very much like this in this room. That is why I would just like to remind you of the concepts which I still believe are very much pressed in Denmark, but which have characterised the way our society has developed and characterised the attitudes of association and volunteering in Denmark, namely rightfulness, lawlessness, liberalism and magnanimity, and I still have to say that the four concepts are strongly pressured today. So that's why I'm glad no one is renovating the Walking Hall and deleting those words out there. At least I'll take care of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623183638	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Radicals. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, Mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623183649	Thank you. I think I have quite clearly expressed the Socialist People's Party's position on this proposal, and I have also been asked quite specifically about the amendment that would have been made to make the previous resolution like what we are dealing with here. And I also think it is a little strange to stand here and spend time on a little the same debate again at a time when many of us have pushed resolutions and question debates and something like that because we have been asked to do so but leave it alone. I really think that the debate here is about some important things. It is about cultural clashes, and it is about the role of religion in society, and I think that is important things to debate, and if one day it becomes a problem with prayer calls in public space, and if it is something that bothers neighbours and creates some major problems, then I think it would be sensible to go in and regulate it, and we in the SF are perfectly ready for that too. But the reality is that at present there is no problem in Denmark with prayer calling that bothers people. There are practically no Danes who have experienced a Muslim prayer call in Denmark to which reference is made. One of the new things that we have experienced in this debate is that the Minister is now saying that a legal clarification needs to be made as to whether a ban on prayer calls can be made, and I think it is quite fine that we look into it. However, I would also like to call for the government to keep the possibility of regulating in other ways rather than laying down itself completely in relation to how it might be regulated if a problem arises someday. Because it may also be possible to do this in other ways, and I think it is important to deal with the specific situation that may now arise. I can imagine, for example, that we are going to be able to do something about it. could go in to regulate on duration and frequency and decibel limits and such things if one wanted to ensure some orderly conditions, so religious prayer calls did not bother too much in public space. I think it is a little dangerous to decide completely that this should not happen at all. I could, for example. Imagine a model in which religious communities are allowed to make prayer calls a few times a year or something like that, on special occasions and something that matters to them, if it is not something that bothers much and it can be done in a proper way. I think it is important for us politicians to regulate according to the specific situations that arise in real society, and not just so in advance that we are going to ban something that is not really a problem at this stage. So this is my approach to this, and it is still the case that the Socialist People's Party cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623183936	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the SF rapporteur. And then the next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623183950	Thank you. I am extremely opposed to extreme religions and ideologies, especially authoritarian and dominant religions and ideologies. I am also opposed to presumptuous noise, whether it is a rock concert where it is turned up to the extreme, whether it is high ringing from a folk church or prayer call, when it is annoying and unpleasant in public space. I guess that's what this is all about. Surely we are not supposed to use this kind of thing to fight a religion and say that we will then drive in here when we cannot ban it, or that, when we cannot prevent it from being recognized by the state, we can try some other methods. This is the way I see New Civil and Danish People's Party hunting other religions. I am also opposed to presumptuous noise from motorways and motorsports and disruptions to public order in this way. We do not prohibit rock music, even though some have called it diabolical, but we ask that it be played, so that other people who do not like rock music and like quiet folk music can also be there, and we set limits on when you play loud music, when you play motor sports, and also when you call the church bell. In a society with many cultures and a free and open relationship with other cultures, one must surely show a little spaciousness and believe that the fight against religions is about formation and belief in their own strength in the arguments and not about bans. I am not associated with any religion and do not blame anyone for being so. I am delighted that other people are happy to be involved in, or are part of, a religion, and I will fight for their right to continue to feel that way. I feel like Marianne Jelved, because I believe that the present Danish church in its present form has a future for itself. There are indications of that, but don't glorify it. The Danish National Church, the Catholic Church and a number of other religions have drawn a trail throughout history of blood and oppression and unacceptable acts. They have not brought democracy with them. On the contrary, it is the struggle among the common people against the power of the Church and other rulers who have created the democratic, free and open society that we have. We must be happy about that, and we must safeguard it. Humans' right to cultivate their own faith is important as long as others do not suffer in the form of violence, oppression, witch burning, circumcision, child abuse, etc. etc. I am calling for spaciousness and I am calling for the proposers to dare to believe in their own values in an equal and open meeting with other cultures. I am not afraid that their culture can easily tolerate that; believe even a little. I'm looking for factual arguments. I think it is bloodless to say: we do not want it in the Danish period. That's a poor way to argue. It would not be accepted in any other subject area of our Parliament. There we would demand of each other that we argue with objective arguments. I believe that what Marie Krarup has just said about education, that is education, education, insight and knowledge, is a protection against dogmatic religions and dogmatic ideologies and oppression. We do not live in a Christian society, we live in a free, enlightened, democratic society where education and education dare meet other cultures, and I hope that we can continue to do so and not resort to the least of all, namely that a majority bans the cultures of others, forbids the religions of others. I would particularly like to thank Marianne Jelved for the very comparison, the ugly comparisons that we have just had refreshed because of the 75th anniversary of Denmark's liberation, namely the hatred of Jews who have been in Denmark and which we agree to fight. We have certainly been when we have been discussing this lately, but it was not an agreement that was in Denmark, for example. about the year 1900 or the year 1920 or for that matter in 1940-45. Not everyone did it for the Jews, so they helped them away from the Nazis. The Enhedslisten cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623184443	There is a brief comment from Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623184446	I just want to clarify what this proposal is about, because it sounds like Mr. Christian Juhl believes that the proposal is against Islam or against Muslims, and it is not. It is opposed to Islamization, which means that it is against Islamisation of the society that was here before Islam and Muslims came to this country. We should not have the public space Islamised; we should not have our schools or nursing homes or public institutions at all Islamised. We should not have the public space filled with Islamic prayer calls. We must resist Islamism, but it is not the same as banning Islam or fighting Islam. You cannot fight Islam with anything but arguments, and that is not what you do when you ban a prayer call. However, we can have a theological discussion about what is right and so on, but that is not what we are doing with this motion for a resolution that prohibits the Islamicisation of public space.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623184547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623184550	Yes, and then I would say that I see no fear that public space will be Islamised. So the rapporteur should come to Silkeborg, for it is certainly rare for us to meet a person who signals Islam visibly and, incidentally, Muslims have been here for many centuries to a greater or lesser extent, and so have the Jews. But the debate has now started in this way because we live in a society in which cultures interfere more than they have ever done before. And I'm not afraid of that. I am unhappy with presumptuous, noisy activity, but it does not matter whether it is from a motorcycle or from a church bell, or whether it is from a shouting man up in a tower. I don't like that because we should all be here. I have to be here, too, and I don't want to listen to a whole lot of noise when I want to have peace and quiet in my colonial garden. That is why it is important that we say that we can create a framework. And the SF's rapporteur has just said that we are doing so in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623184657	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623184659	I will actually row through Silkeborg in kayak in a few weeks' time on my summer holiday, and there I will look for burkas and Islamic scarves and listen for prayer calls, and it may well be that I will not see so much right out there from the waves. But there are places in Denmark where there is a high degree of Islamization, and the moment you stand on that football field in Gellerup and hear that Arabic cry to Islamic prayer, it is surely a clear Islamisation of the public space. And so much else comes with Islamisation, because there is also an ideology that removes the freedom that we are used to in Denmark. So it's
ParlaMint-DK_20200623184745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623184746	Well, I just said that I am opposed to oppressive religions, and that is, in fact, whoever it is. But then there are a lot of Muslim believers who quietly and peacefully worship their religion, and should they once a week cry out about the city that now there is a meeting in their church, then I see it on the same footing as the people's church crawls with the bells I do. And I do not believe that this is a danger either for my culture or for Mrs Krarup's culture. On the contrary, I believe that the culture that we individually have and which we perceive as Danish is strong, and it will survive that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623184826	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur in line, as I can see in the Chamber, is Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623184842	Thank you for the floor. While I was in the Foreign Policy Name during the previous parliamentary term, we had a delegation from the Kuwaiti National Assembly and they asked about the religious conditions in Denmark. What I corresponded to our guests was that in Denmark the atheists don't even know what they don't believe in. I really think that is confirmed by the debate we have in this Chamber today. But yes, we're standing here again. We did so on 11 June, when we discussed B 174, which was also about prayer calls. When we dealt with B 174, I said here from the platform, and I quote: there is no doubt that Paragraph 67 of the Constitution gives all citizens of Denmark freedom of religion, with the reservation that nothing must be learned that is contrary to morality or public order, but there can be no doubt that one has the right to be free of the religion of others. Quote out. Funny enough, we still think so 14 days later in the Liberal Alliance. As far as I can hear, there are five other parties in the Folketing who think about the same thing. I have spoken the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Conservatives, the Danish People's Party and the New Citizens' Party as representatives of that view, and I am glad to hear that the Socialist People's Party recognises that there is a problem and would like to be involved in real negotiations. We take the issue of Islamisation deeply seriously in the Liberal Alliance, and that is because the issue of freedom is an issue that we take very seriously. What is Islamization? After all, Islamisation is a situation in which Islamic rules are applied to people who are not Muslims and who do not profess the Islamic faith. There is already a lot of that in Denmark. Of course, with threats of violence, to some extent, we have managed to change the conditions for using freedom of expression. With threats of violence, Jews have succeeded in limiting and hindering the practice and confession of their religion. And with threats of violence, we have also been forced to redesign the public space. I don't go to Silkeborg on a regular basis, but I happened to be at a city party in Silkeborg in August 2017, and there were heavy security measures to get into the festival area to avoid anyone getting the crazy idea to drive a truck into the festival participants. That wasn't necessary earlier. These are also measures that have come to us because of terrorism. This is all deeply, deeply unacceptable. Religious freedom should also be defined as the right to be free from the religion of others, the right not to be forced upon rules and beliefs of religions to which one does not profess. In fact, I think the same thing today as I thought on 11 June. I find it regrettable that the six parties, which basically agree, are unable to find each other in a joint report text. Now that we have worked together to spend billions of dollars for all kinds of good purposes, why can we not work together to draw up a joint report when we are so close to agreeing? That's why we're gonna do what we did last time. We will not support the proposal as it stands, but we will very strongly urge the six parties to join the Socialist People's Party, if they want to be in agreement as a basic principle, to find pragmatism and thus pave the way for a lasting solution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623185255	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623185258	Thank you. I just think it was important for me to say to Mr. Simpson. Henrik Dahl, that what I said from the platform was not that there was a problem today. I just said that I do not really think there is a big problem today. But if it becomes a problem in Denmark that there are many religious prayer calls and it bothers people and those who live close, then I think it is sensible to go in and negotiate about it. I really think there have been some interesting points in today's debate, and I think that among other things. Mr. Christian Juhl has made some good points about equality between different religions. In the SF, we believe that recognized religions should be treated equally and that the church should not have any special privileges; but I also think it is a mistake if one completely equates ringing church bells with a prayer call where one sings or speaks or something like that. I really think that these are two quite different things, and I think that we should also have that if we are one day going to have to negotiate on how to regulate this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623185358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623185400	Unlike what can sometimes be read in the media, I have never been a member of the SF, but it is a party I have sympathy with in many ways. And what I've noticed over the years is that SF always approaches the big questions of the time in the same way as when people have to bathe: It's with a toe in the first, and then it takes a long time; you don't just throw yourself into it like that. So I think it's good that SF has stuck a toe in these problems, and maybe you get your head under at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623185436	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623185440	That thing about getting your head under water, you gotta be careful, you can drown that off. I just want to say two things. The rapporteur compares Islamism with terrorism. Terror can be religiously carried; we have seen that in Europe. It can also be politically carried; we have seen this with both right-wing and left-wing extremism, especially right-wing extremism, over the last ten years. And it must be combated. However, to say that it is due to Islamism is a little narrow-track, and I did not expect that from a highly educated academic, that is to say, that one cannot look at it more nuanced than that. After all, we do not understand much of what is happening in our society if we cannot try to find the causes, and they are not just one place. That is, of course, the big mistake in a lot of politics, which is that you think it all comes from one place. There are two parties here in the Folketing who believe that. Peace be with them; they must be allowed to believe what they want. But those who want to work a little with knowledge and facts about society have to say that it is more nuanced than that. I hope the rapporteur thinks so too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623185547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623185548	I believe very much in the use of facts, and the fact is that in this century virtually all of us have had a few exceptions: terrorist attacks with a fatal outcome in Europe have been carried out by Islamists. So in this century on our continent, terror with fatal outcome has been something that has been rooted in Islamism, with a few exceptions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623185616	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623185619	It's not right. It's not right. Separatist movements in particular have been some of the causes of many deaths... fighting for power in society has been the cause of very, very many deaths. Another question I would like to ask is in relation to what the rapporteur says about the right not to be imposed on a religion that one does not belong to. Well, now I live in a society where I'm influenced by Christianity every day. Can one then call it a kind of Christianism that I have to hear sermons on the radio and hear church bells ringing, and that my priest comes when I have a child, and will interfere with those things? I believe that if what the rapporteur said was true, there must also be a limit to Christianity.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623185714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623185715	I have two things. It's a matter for Detector to investigate this question of death. I said that with regard to terrorist attacks with a fatal outcome in Europe in this century, the vast majority of these terrorist attacks are Islamist. We need some factfinders to take a closer look at that. Denmark has been a Christian in approx. 1,000 years, and the law is Christian from the Middle Ages. Our human vision is Christian, our culture is Christian and our history is Christian. It is part of our culture and it comes with the package that it is to be in this country, as several rapporteurs have already said.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623185755	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The last rapporteur is the rapporteur for the authors of the proposals, Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623185806	Thank you. As a representative of the authors of the motion for a resolution, I am extremely pleased that today we are debating a joint resolution by the Left, by the DF, by the Conservative People's Party and by the New Citizens' Party. It is a resolution which will ban loudspeaker-enhanced prayer calls and similar religious expressions in public space. I was hoping that, following the debate the other day, the government would put itself behind the proposal so that it could finally be adopted on Thursday. Unfortunately, I understand from the Minister and from the Socialist rapporteur that the government is not willing to take responsibility for itself and protect the Danes and our country from the pressure on our values that Islam's capture represents. The resolution is formulated neutrally and will apply to all religions except the church of the people. Denmark, according to the Constitution, is a Christian country and Christianity an essential part of our cultural heritage. So, of course, church bells should not be subject to a ban. For us in New Citizens, however, there is no reason to try to conceal the fact that the ban on loudspeaker-enhanced prayer calls will be directed against Islam. It is Islam that uses prayer calls in public to retain Muslims in a grip of Sharia. The Muslim prayer call is a demonstration of power of Islam when it goes beyond land and people who have not yet surrendered to Islam. The loudspeaker-enhanced Islamic prayer call is religious harassment and ideological indoctrination at the same time. Those who believe that Islam must dictate or play a greater role in society are Islamists, and Islamists must stay away from life. We must actively oppose them where we can. There are no other foreign religions in Denmark that use such aggressive methods to spread their teachings and push themselves into a predominantly Christian culture. Neither Jews, Hindus, Buddhists, nor other Christian communities outside the church behave that way. All religions other than the Muslims are peaceful. They're adjusting and they're minding their own business. In Denmark, people must believe and think what they want, but we must not allow Islam to push into our society. Islam must be pushed back into private life. In April, an imam left the messages of Islam crawling over a residential area in Aarhus with electrical reinforcement. The Imam comes from a mosque known from the documentary • The mosques behind the veil • Hopefully many remember the horrible documentary. It was the one who showed how a Sharia council advised a woman not to leave her husband and go to the police, even though he beat her up, forced her into sex and wanted another wife. Islam's oppression of women, social control and general intolerance to other religions, sexual minorities and atheists are well documented for many years. Yet politicians have refused to take character and announce to the preachers of Islam in Denmark that Islam should have no influence. Specifically in relation to prayer calls, the parties in here had dropped responsibility and left it to the municipalities to keep Islam out of society. But out in the municipalities, where Danish Islamic Religion wants to pray more and more places, they don't know what to do. In the municipality of Elsinore they received a prayer call from the Danish Islamic Religion, which is why they have asked the church minister for a statement almost a month ago. The municipality lacks explanation as to why and how they should be involved in the decision of the question. The municipality considers that they are not authorised to deal with the request for prayer calls, but they have not received an answer. It is untenable, and fortunately we are a broad circle of bourgeois parties that have acknowledged and will do something about it. As members of the Folketing, we should adopt a ban on Muslim prayer calls in public space. There must be clean lines. The municipalities must be given clear information. I understood from the Minister that the government has acknowledged the problem and the need to limit Islam's influence in public space. Therefore, it is both regrettable and actually rather incomprehensible that the government does not support the proposal from the Left, from DF, from the Conservative People's Party and from the New Citizens' Party. It is completely untenable if it is the municipal administration that is to ensure the Danes against Islam pushing further and further into our society. There must be clear legislation to ensure that imams calling for prayer in public spaces are prosecuted and punished. We must not allow Islam to gain more and more influence in our society. You have to put a foot down, and it has to be with the heel first. We must signal that it is here and not anymore. Because if we do not act in time, we will end up with a situation where Muslim prayer becomes the norm, and we are not going there. I hope that the government and the Social Democrats will not wait as long to act on this as they have generally expected to act on foreign policy in Denmark. I hope it doesn't take 40 years. I would like to conclude by thanking you for the very constructive cooperation with the other bourgeois parties, and although there is no majority in favour of the proposal, it seems that there is a broad understanding in the Folketing that we do not want Islam to push into our values. I hope that understanding will also lead to a majority taking responsibility and having it slowed down. In New Citizens we say clearly: Islam must have no influence in our society. And we're scratching. We're gonna keep fighting. We're not giving up. Thank you for the debate and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623190420	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623190424	I would like to remind the rapporteur that 170 years ago we had a constitution in Denmark, and at that time the view was that the cause of all the bad things in society was the Jews. I am reading a few books about that time, precisely because we are going to discuss it, also in relation to Denmark's reunification etc. Who was blamed for all the bad things in our society? I think the rapporteur is well aware of this. It was the Jews. All bad! And they were scolded and hanged out and were told that their religion was harmful to society and could undermine society etc. etc. There's a lot of documentation on that. Fortunately, wise people rebelled against the false attitude and said that the Constitution should include a right to worship one's religion and that one should not be persecuted because of one's religion. Yes, we have even made it an international principle that we should not be persecuted, which we can use today. Now we are doing the same with Islam. Why can't we live happily together on this planet instead of demonizing each other? I think New Citizens do that, and I look forward to New Citizens starting to take an interest in something other than demonising Islamism.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623190538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623190540	I think it's a comparison that's completely on the moon. When we see how Islam and the Islamic awakening have destroyed societies, not only in the West but also in the Middle East, and when we see how previously more secular societies have been destroyed by the Islamic awakening, I think one owes it to say away when it comes to that part of Islam that is political, because it is part of Islam. When that part of Islam, which is political and which penetrates the public and the public, meets society, we have to say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623190621	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623190623	I can understand that if you have a very one-track view that my culture, my religion, is the right one in the world and that everyone else's is mistaken and misunderstood. I could even understand what Mr. Dahl, that if you don't belong to any religion, it's because you're ignorant and stupid and you don't even know what you mean. So we live in an enlightened society, and I believe that we live in such a good and enlightened society that the resistance of Danish society is enormous. So we do not have to ban the traditions of other religions. We can do that, and our children are both smart and talented enough to analyze it. We should not protect it as if people are such narrow-track ones. Okay, some people want to be political, but I don't subscribe to that attitude.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623190710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623190712	Well, you almost have to go back to Adam and Eve, but when we discuss this, it's all about us dealing with a religion that's not just a religion that people worship in private. This isn't a fight for one religion over the other. This is a struggle for a society in which our fundamental values mean that we have pushed our religion a little into the background. We do not legislate on the basis of religious doctrines; we legislate on the basis of what a majority here in Parliament believes and wants. And when you look to the Islamic countries, that is not what applies. Democracy and freedom are cramped when Islam pushes, and in the worst case it is death for democracy and freedom when Islam takes over.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623190802	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623190818	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 24 June 2020, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
