ParlaMint-DK_20200924100002	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20200924100012	Member of the Folketing Rasmus Jarlov (KF) has requested that his leave, which under Rule 41 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Point (a) of the third subparagraph was granted on 12 May 2020, as from 14 September 2020 shall be replaced by Article 41 (3) (a) of the Rules of Procedure. 4. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200924100037	The debate is open. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200924100050	Thank you. It's so important to all of us for the individual, for our family, for our associations, yes, for the whole society that we avoid the covid-19 spreading. That is why we are gradually getting used to a lot of rules that we all have to comply with, of course, because we know how important it is in the fight against covid-19. Therefore, there are rules in relation to institutions and schools if some are found to be infected. Of course, you have to return here if you are infected yourself, but also if the covid-19 infection is detected in your close associates. This also means that parents may actually risk having many days off, and for some it may mean far more days off than they are entitled to, so they will be in a difficult economic situation. This has rightly filled a lot in the media where parents have been reasonably frustrated by their situation. This has meant that we have held some meetings of the Ministry of Employment and that the Minister has had a meeting with the social partners and has made a tripartite agreement. And that is precisely why we are in the Chamber today with this bill. The proposal allows parents with children up to 13 years of age to have 10 days free per year. child. This will be on maternity allowance and will apply until 31 December of this year. The condition for the 10 days of maternity benefit will be that you do not have the opportunity to work at home and that you have used your time off or your care days. If your child has been sent home because the child is ill, then you must also have used the child's sick days first. The bill also gives independent parents the same right if they cannot work from home. The Socialists support the proposal because we can see the problems that the Corona situation poses for families with children, and because we also think it is important in this situation to give them an outstretched hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200924100245	Thank you. There are no brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200924100255	Thank you. The Corona has been showing its ugly face for many months now that new situations and problems arise all the time, which require solutions and action from everyone. The Left has pressed for the government to come up with solutions for those parents who are financially challenged and who have had to take care of their children during the daytime due to long waiting times on the Covid-19 test and subsequent waiting time to get the result. With the bill we're dealing with here today, we're meeting a lot of those parents. Parents have recently drawn on greater ingenuity. They may have divided the care of the child between themselves or eventually drawn on the grandparents' goodwill when their child is sent home from school or institution. And that with the grandparents is not necessarily the best solution in a situation where many people who have reached age are actually at risk from covid-19 infection. At a time that is already unusual and a little uncertain, there is confidence that we can give a temporary right to parents who take care of their children during the daytime, and the Left is very pleased that we have found a solution. We are pleased that the solution is both for employees and for self-employed workers. The fact that the self-employed are covered and can have one less concern is something that we in the Left have worked to secure. The Left considers this to be an excellent and good solution, and we will, of course, vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200924100455	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen and move on to mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200924100510	Thank you for that, President. I'm not gonna drag this too long. For the Danish People's Party, it is of course important that we can take care of the families of children who have problems because the children are at home because they are actually sent home by the public. There may be someone who has been infected or has to be checked. It is not even certain that there is disease; there is just a suspicion of it. And then you shut down a school class and say, "Now you have to be home until the results are available." In this way, of course, parents may find themselves in a very difficult situation in relation to care facilities, and as Mr. Hans Andersen said it can't help either that you just send them to the grandparents who might be at risk. So there are certain problems. So this solution, that you can then give your parents cash benefits under the maternity law, is a good solution. That is what has been agreed between the parties, but of course we in the Danish People's Party would have liked to have seen that it was simply the state that went in and secured it, since it is the state, the public, that actually dictates that the children should be sent home and that they should stay at home until there is no risk of anything. It also applies to self-employed people that they can benefit from it, and that is a good thing. This also applies to parents of children up to and including 13 years of age, and this is, of course, due to the fact that when the children are 13 years old, you think they can be alone at home for a while, if necessary. In any case, my grandchildren can, so I think others can. With those words, I would like to say that the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200924100700	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted and move on to Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200924100706	Thank you, President. If corona is found in an institution or school class, all the children are sent home, and that is, of course, in order to limit the spread of infection. But of course it puts parents in a really difficult situation if none of the parents have the opportunity to work at home or if, for example, they are not able to work at home. is a single parent and does not have the opportunity to work at home. And precisely because we have to limit the spread of infection, it is not appropriate to allow, for example, for example. grandparents or others take care of the child. In the Radical Left, we welcome the fact that together we have found a solution in the maternity benefit system and we also welcome the fact that self-employed people are covered by this temporary solution. Radical Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200924100801	We would like to thank the rapporteur and welcome him. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200924100806	Corona creates insecurity in all parts of society. Everywhere people try in many different ways to protect themselves from the disease, but we do not get around the fact that corona casts long shadows. And the consequences for vulnerable people can be fatal. That is why it may be necessary at times to close schools and daycare centres or parts of them. In such situations, some families of children may be severely pressured when the children cannot go to school or kindergarten because of the infection and the last days of care and the child's sick days are spent, and when it is not felt that it can be safe to let them be cared for by grandparents who can then be at risk in other contexts. It is therefore a good agreement reached by the State with the trade union movement and employers. This will give you a little more peace in the families. SF supports the bill. And to the extent that you can talk about friends in politics, I should like to welcome the friends in the Alternative and say that they are also very happy with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200924100914	Thank you. We move on to Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200924100919	Thank you. We are trying to solve in part at least a problem that has been there since day one. We have in the Enhedslisten from day one talked about the fact that it was an absolutely necessary solution that needed to be found. And we do because we could see that people didn't have a chance just to look after their children. It was a major problem while the institutions were closed during the summer. This remains a major problem, and there are three groups of children who are covered by it here. One group is the children being sent home because they have corona. It goes without saying, they're sick, so it's not a problem. The second group is the children who are being sent home for observation for corona, and there I do not think it is quite clear that their parents are also covered by the possibility of benefits. I hope that I will be able to clarify this in the course of the process. Their children must at least be registered as ill, and then they must follow those rules in my view. Then, of course, there's the last group. Here it is about the outbreak of infection in the institution, and those who are closely associated with those who are infected are then sent home and must be home until they are tested and all those things. So it is a good proposal that has been made and, of course, we support it. We have some questions about the practical arrangements, because I can see a certain amount of bureaucracy in relation to that. I imagine, for example, that you get an email from the school that now closes 1st b. And then I can see that both parents must go out to their respective employers and get a certificate that they cannot work at home; they must have a certificate that they have spent their child's first day of illness, if that is the case, or that they have spent their days of care. Of course, all this is time-consuming, so it's not just equal. And there I can have my concern about whether it is something that is going to take time or whether it is something that can be resolved in a very short time, and in relation to the fact that there will then be the payout that is necessary, otherwise it may also be a problem. All in all, however, it is an excellent proposal which we support on the part of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200924101137	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then we can move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200924101141	All parents know this: When the leaves of the trees begin to change color, the snot noses, sneezing, fever, and cough appear. Sometimes, despite a little cold, the children are fresh enough to be sent to day care or school, while the other times are too sick. That's what it used to be. With the corona virus, stricter requirements have also been made as to when children can come to day care or school. Those who are usually rescued when you have to take sick days with your child once again are the grandparents who, because of their age, may be at risk. So what do you do? The child must or cannot go, the grandparents cannot take care of the child, and you are obliged to go to work yourself. With this bill that we are discussing today, we are meeting the parents who have children up to and including 13 years of age who are sent back from school, day care or institutions because of a specific or more corona case, by ensuring that they are entitled to benefit under the maternity law for up to a total of 10 days. This should also apply to parents of children infected with corona. It is, of course, provided that parents comply with a number of conditions laid down in the maternity law and are entitled to benefit. In addition, it is among other things. essential that parents are in current employment conditions, that there is no opportunity to work at home and that parents do not have caring days or time off for good that can be used to care for the child. This bill comes on the basis of a tripartite agreement concluded between the government and the social partners, and we in the Conservative People's Party have great respect for that. The Danish model is good and it has demonstrated its strength during this crisis. This is just another good example of it. We in the Conservative People's Party are very keen to ensure the safety of families' everyday lives, and this agreement is so important, and we are delighted about it. Furthermore, we are pleased that agreement has also been reached that this should of course also apply to the country's self-employed. That is why the Conservative People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200924101346	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we can move on to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200924101350	First of all, we in the New Citizens' Party can support the proposal. However, I have a few questions that I would like answers to in the course of further consideration. Here recently I think it was on 17 September that new clarification guidelines from the Danish Health Service for handling the covid-19 came in the school classes. Now I could hear some of the rapporteurs saying that whole classes are being sent home, but that is not the case anymore. After the new clarifications, it is only close contacts and no longer a whole class to be sent home. That is why I would like to know in the further reading what it does for the economy of this. Because in my optics, the economy will of course be smaller, but I would like to know whether the economic consequences have been updated with the new guidelines that have come from the Danish Health Service here on 17 September, which states that, as was done earlier, the whole classes should not be sent home, but that it should now only apply to those with whom the student has been sitting at the same table, or only the student concerned. We can still support the proposal... that's not at all that... but it helps in terms of reducing the problem. In addition, I would also like to know what action is being taken to ensure that the heads of schools actually follow these guidelines. Because if a school manager chooses to send a whole class home in violation of these guidelines that have come from the National Health Service, is one still entitled to receive support under this scheme? For then it is a school leader who does not follow the guidelines that actually exist, and is one still entitled to have it here, or what is the situation in which we find ourselves in the conflict? So there are a few questions we would like to have answered in the course of the debate, but basically we can of course support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200924101545	Thank you to the rapporteur. We can now move on to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200924101552	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance agrees with what has already been said here from the platform. We are also voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200924101602	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200924101613	Thank you very much to the rapporteurs for the comments that have fallen. As everyone has said, we are currently faced with a situation in which many parents are facing challenges in caring for their children who, as a result of corona, have to stay home from school or institution. This applies, of course, to parents of children who have been found infected with covid-19, but of course also to parents of children who have been repatriated on the recommendation of the health authorities because of specific cases of infection at their school or institution. I very much understand that it may be difficult for some parents to stay home from work and that they may be worried about losing their job or income during that period. That is why I am also pleased that the government, together with the social partners, has reached an agreement that parents who cannot work from home can receive maternity benefit the days when they have to take care of their child at home because of corona. The draft law we are discussing today translates the tripartite agreement. Together with the Danish Parliament's parties, we have subsequently agreed to include parents who are self-employed in the scheme. They can, of course, face the same challenges as parents who are employees. The scheme therefore covers both parents who are employees and parents who are self-employed. It is common to them that homework should not be possible and that they should also comply with the conditions laid down in the law on maternity leave for entitlement to benefit, inter alia: the employment requirement. If parents have days of care or time off which they can use to care for their returnee, they must use those days before they can receive maternity benefit under the scheme. Of course, if the child is ill because of corona, the parents must also first have the first and second day of illness. I am proud that once again we are holding hands with citizens who are in a difficult situation because of corona and that we can now also give this group of parents an economic backup and an additional safety net. I think this is important and I very much welcome the very broad political support for the agreement. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200924101803	We also thank the Minister for Employment. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200924101817	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 29 September 2020 at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
