ParlaMint-DK_20200312110015	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312110020	The item listed as No. 1 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312110043	The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312110056	No one can be in any doubt any longer that we are in a very serious situation. We must do everything we can to get through it as well as possible, and that, of course, requires all of us to the Danish Parliament, to the authorities, to the health services and, above all, that we all think about and think about others than just ourselves. We can best get through this when we stand together and follow the advice that comes from the health authorities. The next weeks we will show what Denmark is when Denmark is best. We must show socialism and show solidarity with vulnerable and vulnerable people. We must also send a warm thought and all the support we can to those people who are working hard to get the wheels running around. We must welcome and back up our strong health care and, above all, our health and care workers. They always make a lot of effort, but in this time they make an extraordinary effort. In this context, I also find it very, very gratifying that all the parties in the Folketing are united in this matter and that the whole process up to the situation we are facing today has contributed constructively in order to deal with this situation and for the benefit of the people. So a great thank you from the Social Democrats to all the parties of the Folketing. The Danish Parliament will now deal with a bill which authorises the Minister for Health and the Elderly and, in some cases, in cooperation with other ministers, to issue a number of injunctions and impose a number of restrictions. These are injunctions and restrictions which do not necessarily apply but allow them to be put into service. It may be a requirement to be examined by a health care professional, to be admitted to a hospital, to restrict an area where a dangerous disease occurs, to regulate access to means of transport, to regulate how many people must be assembled, to allow a number of patients' rights to be suspended, so that people who are most in need of help can always be given priority, thus helping to save human lives, and finally also to regulate access to nursing homes and hospitals. I must not hide the fact that several of the measures in this draft law are extraordinary, but we are also in an extraordinary situation, and we must do everything we can to look after each other and to limit the spread of infection. As the draft law states, it is assumed that rules on prohibitions and restrictions should be temporary and that this should not be extended beyond what is necessary in order to prevent and contain the spread of a dangerous disease in this country. There is no doubt that our health system can be pressed in the near future, and that is why we must also be prepared to give priority to our health services, so that we give priority to our health resources where there is the greatest need, that is, acute and life-threatening diseases, so that we put those people who have the greatest need and are most at risk in the front line. We will not get through this without costs, but at the same time we must insist that we go through it and that we go through it together. I look forward to future treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312110413	Thank you for that, and I would like to thank Members for ensuring that they keep their distance from it is thoughtful. Martin Geertsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312110432	Thank you. Unfortunately, as we have all realised, Denmark is in the midst of a serious and historic exceptional situation. Unfortunately, we have seen that in a very short time the corona virus has spread at a dramatic rate. Denmark is now the country with the largest percentage increase in the case of corona virus. There is therefore a huge responsibility on this Parliament to take the situation and developments very, very seriously. If we do not take drastic steps, yes, we can risk looking into an overloaded healthcare system which will quickly reach its capacity limit. I guess we've all seen the graph with the two curves that illustrate what happens if we don't do something. And here, of course, it is particularly serious if the capacity limit is exceeded in relation to those parts of our healthcare that ensure that people are kept alive. Furthermore, continued spread of infection will not only affect those people, and it is seriously enough that have actually contracted the corona virus; no, it also risks hitting the neighbor on the right, who may be suffering from a chronic illness, or the weakened elderly neighbour on the left. In other words, we all have to show the spirit of society. We must continue to take precautions in everyday life, wash and brandish our hands, cough up our sleeve and keep separate from each other, and especially to our sick and weakened fellow citizens. And all these things still apply away, no matter what the politicians here at Christiansborg may decide. We must also say clearly that there is sufficient food and other necessities in stock in our grocery chains. This is a health crisis. It's not a food crisis. But this serious situation also calls for serious decisions here in the Folketing. And this bill is about changing our legislation at a time when we need extraordinary measures and new tools to deal with this threat. And there is no reason to hide the fact that these are exceptional measures. The Left agrees with the general assessment that the current legislation in a number of areas is not sufficient in terms of the ability of the authorities to ensure the prevention and containment of this contagious disease. And, of course, we must ensure that our legislation is. We think, for example, that it is important that there will now be real demands instead of recommendations from the authorities not to hold major events. This ensures the necessary clarity for the organisers. And, of course, we very much agree with the need to ensure that our health services make the necessary choices to ensure that patients with acute and life-threatening diseases are given priority first. The Danes' everyday lives will feel and be very different in the coming weeks. At times we will find it very difficult to know the everyday life of our country. Care systems, schools and educational institutions are shutting down. Many will be sent home from work if they are not already. The public transport will run half-empty. We can't meet more than 100 people at a time. And, of course, many companies will be pressured to the utmost where, in the second context, there will be a need to take further initiatives that keep their hands on the Danes' livelihoods. It is essential that we listen to and comply with the instructions of the authorities. We have extremely competent authorities in this country, and there is a reason to be them and all the employees, for example, in health care and care for the elderly, which we cannot do without deeply grateful for their efforts. This bill, when you dive into it, is very, very far-reaching in relation to the powers proposed to the Minister for Health. That is why it is, for example. It is essential that it be followed by a sunset clause. Denmark must, as soon as possible, take due account of the general state of health and the capacity of health care back to everyday life. Businesses need to get back on track. We have to get back to work, and the kids have to go back to day care and school. It is also crucial that the parties of the Folketing are given the opportunity to participate formally in the implementation of the specific provisions and powers resulting from the draft law. In the end, this bill is based on the government's assessment of what initiatives the government considers necessary in the current situation. It is the government that has the full overview and has come up with its attitude. The measures are, of course, ready to support in this serious situation. The Left is ready to take responsibility and contribute to Denmark's being as gentlely through the coming period as possible, which is why we naturally support the bill. At the very end, I should like to ask quite formally, on behalf of the Left, that the draft law be dealt with in parallel in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312111059	Thank you. There were no brief comments, which is why we can move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Liselott Blix, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312111113	We have all followed in the development of the virus covid-19 and we have followed in the countries where it has abolished an otherwise well-functioning health care system. It has been frightening to see Northern Italy, which normally has a well-functioning health care system comparable to the Danish one, now have fallen to its knees. The WHO has now also assessed the virus as a pandemic, which means that it is worldwide and it will hit all countries and will be the basis for a halting of whole communities. In recent weeks, the Danish People's Party has asked that travelers be detained, that people be quarantined, also through coercion, and that other arrangements be provided for, but the legislation has not been possible, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party support the urgent law that we have to deal with today. We will, of course, have a number of questions in committee, but together with the rest of the committee we will work together to ensure that we can take care of the people who will have the greatest difficulty together. With an infection growing as fast as the present one, we will see that there is tremendous pressure on our health services. We will see large groups of staff succumb to illness and that there are more people to be examined by doctors, more people to be admitted, and this will have major consequences for our health services. Already with an infection of just over 600 we see departments cancel non-acoustic operations. Divisions must go home in quarantine, and these are some of the things we will see much more of, and therefore it will affect all of us. It is important that we can ensure that our health services take care of the most acute and could therefore postpone some non-acoustic things, and the Minister can do so with this legislation. You can postpone the treatment guarantee on those treatments that are not acute. This is about using the capacity that we have in the most appropriate way. I would also like to draw your attention to the services that we can see coming in to the health services that can be used. Today I saw the Sclerosis Hospitals go out saying: We have a capacity. We have 160 employees. We are happy to be available. And I would urge the Minister of Health to take that on board. We need to look at how we can deal with the capacity problems that will arise over the next few weeks. But this law is much more than health. This law also provides a legal basis for requiring persons suspected of being infected to be isolated, to be able to prohibit the holding of larger gatherings, events, events, etc. This legislation also mentions the immigration legislation, which describes what we can do when or if asylum seekers arrive at the border. Let it be said that in the Danish People's Party we want them rejected at the border, not as it says that they should be isolated and accommodated, and only if they oppose it can they be rejected. We need all our capacity for the Danes who are becoming ill, so we want the legislation to say that asylum seekers must of course be able to be rejected at the border because of the state of health we currently have. These are far-reaching decisions which this legislation authorizes and which we are actually putting in the hands of the Minister for Health. Normally, this is something that we in the Danish People's Party will refrain from and oppose. It is legislation where people can be forced to be vaccinated, to provide personal information, to allow others to enter their homes. These are some of the things that we normally think are the most important rights for people in Denmark, but today it is not normal. Today, we must protect the people who are most vulnerable. When I talk about those who are most vulnerable, it's not just about those who might get the infection and be hospitalized. We know that with a health care system to its knees it will be the case that many of the other diseases may not be able to get the same effort as we are used to. These are some of the things we see when we look at what is happening in Italy. In the Danish People's Party we also want to ensure that the weakest groups are protected. I haven't really heard anything about them yet... those who don't have a home to be in, the homeless. They walk around the streets and roads and may also be infected. There we need to ensure that they can have a stay, perhaps in some of the hotels we have, which lack tourists, which we can also make use of if we have capacity problems elsewhere. We are asking to think in terms of every opportunity so that everyone can have a safe day-to-day life, to ease the pressure on healthcare professionals and to ensure that those who become ill by the corona virus are treated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312111627	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blix. There are no brief comments, and that is why the next rapporteur is Mr Gundelach. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312111643	Thank you very much to the President-in-Office. The legislative proposal that we are going to deal with here today is extraordinary, but it is also an extraordinary situation that we are in the middle of. Like many others, I have followed closely the development of coronasmitte, not least my fellow rapporteurs here in the Chamber, first abroad and now also at home in Denmark. In this respect, it is appropriate to thank the Minister for the very frequent updates in this area and for the very quick answers when I have quite often sent questions in that direction. I also remain deeply grateful for the efforts of our extremely skilled and hardworking staff at the Danish Health Authority, the Danish Agency for Patient Safety and the Statens Serum Institute in this situation. We can all appreciate the high level of expertise we have in this area. We will also be demanding even more of our already hard-working health workers in the near future. The frequent updates from the authorities on developments and the good arguments for the new measures have been commendable. From the outset, we have fully supported the approach that has been taken, which has always acted in proportion to the situation we faced. But it has also been clear from the outset that we could not avoid a more widespread infection in Denmark and that more drastic action would be needed at some point in time and that is now, and it is necessary to protect all of us. Emergency legislation is not something to be taken lightly; it requires very special circumstances. Yesterday I was in P1 with my fellow rapporteur from the Danish People's Party Mrs Liselott Blix. By that time we had already seen a very marked increase from the day before ~ from 260 infected to now 340 infected. A few hours after we got out of the studio, it had risen to over 500 infected, and this morning we have reached 600 infected. These are special circumstances, and it requires special efforts. This is a serious situation we are in and, if we do not act, we risk pushing our health services to their knees. The legislative proposal will have very major consequences for all of us, but if we are to avoid a situation such as that we have seen in other countries, it is necessary. We have seen what happens if we fail to contain the spread of infection. This is serious. The draft law gives a number of very far-reaching powers to the Minister. This, of course, requires the right balance in relation to the seriousness of the situation, and therefore it is crucial that the law has a built-in end date and a sunset clause. And it is also crucial that we ensure that we do not conflict with our entirely constitutional rights. We now need to clarify this before we vote through the proposal in this Chamber. In conclusion, I would like to give a message to those who may see from home. This is a serious situation. As the Prime Minister's press conference said yesterday, it is now time for us to stand together. We must all take this seriously and listen to the authorities, because together we can stem an epidemic. But we don't have to act in a panic. It's time for community mind, not for hoarding. We are not in the middle of a supply crisis, so there is no need to build large stocks at home. We have a well-functioning crisis response in Denmark, so when you go down and shop, buy what you need. Then there's the next one in line. Show consideration, take care, and take care of each other. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312112015	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we can move on to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312112023	An exceptional serious situation also requires exceptional serious measures. Therefore, it is also timely care that the government makes proposals that mean that we are doing everything we can to prevent infection with corona. Colleagues from both sides of the Folketing have already explained this very well, and I very much welcome the fact that it is a collective Parliament that supports these initiatives. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister for Health and the Elderly and, above all, the Danish Health Service for an exceptionally large amount of work in recent times. Corona's contagious. If you are healthy, you will certainly manage, but the elderly and the sick are at risk, and with the explosive increase in the number of infected in the last few days, the prognosis is deeply serious and the curve must be broken. In the midst of seriousness, however, we must also welcome the fact that a single health service makes it possible to organise a common overall strategy so that a comprehensive healthcare system can ensure that we can deal with a serious situation as now. I also welcome the confidence that the Danish citizens have shown in this regard to the Danish Health Authority. Although it is precisely in such a situation that it is crawling with dubious conspiracies, the vast majority of citizens have behaved extremely responsibly. Thank you. The Danish Health Service has from the beginning drawn the two curves which show what we are up against. Here is one scenario where many are infected at once and how many will need the capacity of hospitals at the same time. This situation is extremely serious because it will push health care beyond a limit which will mean that fewer people will get through disease in their own right. The aim has always been that if many are to become ill, it must be done at a pace that ensures that health care can keep up. That's why the basket needs to be broken. That is why the government is now using drastic methods where all public employees who can stay at home must stay at home and only the vital public functions are kept in normal operation for the next 14 days. But there are also measures in which we prohibit unnecessary assembly, forced investigations, quarantine and the like. This requires specific legislation if we are to guarantee the authority of the authorities to require that everyone complies with the new rules. Specifically, powers are transferred in the Code of Epidemics so that the Minister of Health can issue necessary notices in some cases together with other ministers of the Council of Health, e.g. the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Justice. In concrete terms, this means that for a period up to 1 March 2021, we are giving authority to the Minister for Health and the elderly so that we can impose closure of activities where assemblies increase the risk of infection and where we can impose the necessary quarantine on the individual citizen if you are at risk of infection with corona. Thus the law does not apply for time and eternity, but so far for 1 year. This is serious, and I understand if some people think that it is scary, especially the children who cannot go to school and day care, may need an explanation. The correct explanation is that those of us in particular who are healthy are potential carriers of infection and are therefore at risk of infecting others who are not as healthy as we are. And the closure of the school can prevent us from infecting each other. The children therefore help us all when we all stand together to fight Corona by failing to be together. In the midst of seriousness, we must also welcome health workers who come together and pull on the necessary same hammer to help us through this situation. Health personnel are crucial to preparedness: you are the experts when it comes to taking care of us all, so we get through wholesome if we get sick, and you must know that we will do everything in our power to help you so that you get the help you need so that you can prioritize the important tasks now. This also means that non-acoustic treatments can be postponed because together we give priority to space for the urgent tasks. To all of us: Passe special care of them, keep a distance from them if you are a potential carrier of infection. On behalf of the SF, I should like to thank you for your confidence and support for your special efforts. We must break the basket, and we will only do so if we all respect the new restrictions and stand together by avoiding being together. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312112511	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312112520	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by sending a big thank you to our skilled and dedicated care and healthcare professionals. You are in everyday life the heroes of welfare. We always need you and your efforts to take care of our loved ones, our children, our elderly and caring, our most vulnerable citizens, citizens who cannot take care of themselves without your help. You are always the backbone of our welfare community. In these days, your efforts are even more important and vital than ever. You help to ensure that we have a public and well-functioning health service, where it is health professional assessments that determine who needs the most help. That is why I want to thank you very much, and I hope that your efforts will be appreciated. Because this is an extremely serious situation we are in. This is also reflected in the draft law that we are dealing with first here today. These are very far-reaching powers that we hand over to the Minister for Health and the elderly. Among other things: We are restricting freedom of assembly and allowing freedom of movement to be restricted. We are making it possible to restrict the freedoms of citizens who are suspected of being infected, where it will be up to the authorities to decide who is suspected of being infected. It is our clear expectation that, of course, there will be the possibility of judicial review of a decision. These are quite intrusive restrictions on freedoms. It is rare for us in the Folketing to have such great confidence in the power of government. It is clear that it is worrying when so much power is delegated to restrict the rights of the executive, in fact without the control of the Folketing. It is Enhedslisten's most important task to ensure that it does not go too far. That is why there are two things that it is important for us to clarify before we can give our final approval to the draft law. First of all, it is absolutely crucial that there will still be a subsequent judicial review, even if the police are empowered to enter, for example, a home without a court order • completely as we know it from other violations of freedoms when there is a suspicion of crime. We got an indication of this yesterday from the Ministry of Health, but we do not see it clearly stated in the bill. We will therefore have this clarified by means of a number of questions in committee. Secondly, it is extremely important that the legislation here is subject to a sunset clause. It's fundamental. We believe, however, that one year is a very long time and we therefore propose that at the same time we insert a revision clause every three months so that the Folketing can constantly deal with the need and, above all, how the government has applied the powers in practice. The two things will be discussed in committee before the second reading, and we hope for clarification and possible approval of amendments. But we are at risk of a sudden and large outbreak of a virus we do not yet have the opportunity to vaccinate against. This can have major and dramatic consequences, especially for our most vulnerable and vulnerable groups in society. That is why we must all make every effort to prevent the spread of infection, both as individuals and as citizens of society, but also as communities. Both the Danish Health Authority, the Danish Agency for Patient Safety and the Statens Serum Institute have made a huge effort day and night to follow developments both internationally and in Denmark. They have provided competent and valid medical advice to the Ministry, which has held a high level of information to the Danish Parliament. It is clear that when the medical assessment is that these interventions are necessary, we as politicians must also listen. We have full confidence in the health assessment and must act accordingly. That is why I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the government in general and to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Health and the elderly in particular for dealing with the situation. A high level of information has been kept and communication has left no doubt that the situation must be taken seriously, but that it is controlled and that there is no reason for panic or hoarding. In conclusion, I would like to call on all of us to show solidarity and solidarity, both here in the Folketing and as citizens in general. Right now, as a society, we have one overriding task: we must do everything we can to ensure that as few of our vulnerable and weakened groups as possible are affected by the corona virus. This will require effort from all of us, but it is now that we must prove our worth as a society. Therefore, I would urge you to show consideration, empathy and solidarity... listen to the recommendations of the authorities, think about where you can make a positive effort for yours and those of your fellow citizens who need it. Show solidarity!
ParlaMint-DK_20200312113047	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we can therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312113057	Thank you. Before starting my rapporteur's speech, I would like to thank both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Health for their hard work these days. We need to put party politics aside at the moment, which is why we need clear support for the government's work. This is an extremely serious situation we are in. After all, the WHO has condemned the pandemic, that is to say a worldwide epidemic, and we in Denmark are affected by the covid-19 to an extent that requires action. The measures taken by the authorities are no longer sufficient, and therefore more and new instruments are needed. Nothing is more important than people's health and health, and that is why we must do everything we can to postpone the spread of the corona virus as long as possible. The latest figures for the infection in Denmark are 615, and we know that this figure will grow dramatically. If too many people are infected too quickly, we run the risk that the capacity of our health services will not be sufficient. We must, of course, avoid this situation. We hear from Italy that you triage, in other words sort patients, and that doctors report that it is like in a war situation where patients are sorted hard. In other words, we must extend the period of infection so that health care in Denmark can keep up with the treatment of patients who require intensive care. It is, of course, violent action that the bill contains, and the Ministry of Health and the Elders will be given powers when the regional epidemic commissions are transferred to the Ministry. I certainly do not hope that forced vaccination or coercive treatment will be necessary, nor, of course, that the police will be involved to a greater extent, but basically that will be given the power to do so. In this way, the new emergency law contains a number of options which we normally distance ourselves from and against which the basic law protects us, but in the given situation we support all measures which can minimise the consequences of covid-19, both for individuals, for public health and for the whole country. Most importantly, people's health is important, but there is also a big financial bill. Danske Bank predicts today that there will be no growth in Denmark this year, at all. Some will lose their jobs. Companies will go bankrupt and we will get less money for many of the things in which we otherwise find it sensible to invest. But both in terms of health, but also in terms of growth and the economy, it is incumbent on all of us here in the Folketing to stand together and make the necessary decisions. I look forward to the committee reading of the draft law where we can discuss the details.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312113403	Thank you to the rapporteur and there are no brief comments. That is why it is now Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312113421	Thank you for the floor. For New Citizens, it is crucial in this crisis that we as Danes show that we can look after each other. It is in situations like this that the community must stand its test, that our civil solidarity, which binds us together as people, shows its value. New citizens therefore unequivocally support the government's strategy to eliminate the spread of infection. In particular, the concern for the sick and for the elderly suggests that we are doing everything we can to prevent the health system from being overloaded and, as I understand the government's strategy, this is also where the government has its focus. The draft law that we are dealing with urgently today is far-reaching and intrusive in many areas, more far-reaching and more intrusive than you, as a civil politician, like. But we in the New Citizen recognise that this is necessary. For us, however, it is important that when politicians intervene in the freedom of citizens, it is measured according to necessity, and it is done again as soon as possible. A sunset clause has been included in the law in one year, but in view of the extremely far-reaching and intrusive nature of the law, New Citizens will propose, as is also proposed by other parties, that the period of the sunset clause should be shorter and that, no later than six months after the entry into force of the law, we should re-examine it in this Chamber. If the Coronasmite returns with renewed vigour in the autumn, we will have the opportunity to extend the validity of the law, but we will also have the opportunity to adjust the legislation with the experience we are drawing in the coming weeks and months. Paragraph 27 of the draft law on the abolition of State liability, except in the case of expropriation, gives us cause for concern. This crisis will undoubtedly cost. Denmark's overall prosperity will be reduced when we are hit by a massive external shock and at the same time have to take drastic measures within the country's borders that slow down trade, production and service. Some Danes will be hit harder than others. Some will lose their jobs. Some will go bankrupt with their business. We will all be poorer than we are today, but not all of us are poorer. Paragraph 27 of the bill abolishes de facto liability to private companies that suffer losses as a result of government intervention and thus threatens to leave private employees on the platform. We do not think this is a fair distribution of burdens and risks. Private business is the backbone of Danish society. That is where the values are created. We believe that imposing both the burden and the risk on the private sector without the possibility of compensation is neither appropriate nor appropriate. We therefore call on the government to put forward a comprehensive economic plan that will ensure that burdens and risks are distributed fairly, that production and employment are maintained and that the bill is not pushed forward to our children and grandchildren. Finally, Section 5 of the Act does not apply. 2 and 3 at reading as a violent interference with personal freedom. New citizens will propose here that the law be supplemented with demands for subsequent justification by a court order, as has also been suggested earlier today by among others. Enhedslisten. With these comments, which we will take into account in the further work of the committee, New citizens naturally support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312113825	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief remarks, and then it is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312113838	Thank you. With Bill L 133, the government proposes that the Minister for Health and the Elderly be considerably expanded. The background is, of course, this outbreak of corona, which the WHO has classified as a pandemic. We support the bill. It is true that it greatly extends the powers of the Minister and thus of the State. It must be kept up against the fact that a rapid and effective response to shutting down society or those sectors of social life, where there are many people gathered on a limited area, is essential for controlling the epidemic. This shows the experience of the countries that have managed the epidemic relatively well: Japan, Singapore and paradoxically China outside the Hubei province, where the disease originated originally. That's why it makes sense. We are pleased that the extended powers are balanced by a sunset clause, which will enter into force on 1 March 2021, because then we will strike a balance with what is at stake. 80% of those infected with corona have no or only mild symptoms. 15% symptoms requiring treatment and approx. 5% symptoms requiring intensive treatment. So it is clear that the less a figure the 5 per cent. must be calculated from, the better it is. It is for the individual, it is for society, and it is for our health care. Therefore, the balance of Bill L 133 has been found and is appropriate. Like the other rapporteurs, I would also like to thank the government and the Minister, and not least the many really capable and very hard-working people who serve in the minister's area, for the great effort being made. It's excellent, and it's something that a lot of people notice. After all, not all events that the media refer to as landmarks are actually landmarks. But I believe that the Coronapandemic has revealed a great many things about our society, who we are as people and as a population; what values it is that hold Danish society together; a great deal about how our economy works; and indeed also a great deal about how the world actually works today. I think that will give substance to very much thought and a lot of conversations, both here in the house and out in society in the years to come. I believe that here and now it is important to remember the motto of Emperor Augustu, which was: Festina lente, so hurry slowly. This can be interpreted as being both important, decisive and prudent. Fortunately, the vast majority of people do that as a matter of course. I have spent decades of my life making focus groups before I became a politician, and what I bring from the many years is that by far, the vast majority of people in this country are incredibly sensible. That is why I would like to welcome it, and then I would like to endorse what has been said about hoarding and panic already, without adding anything to it and just bypassing it in shameless silence. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312114252	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That's why it's now, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille as a privateist, who has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312114306	Denmark faces one of the biggest challenges in recent times, after we have been hit by a large number of coronavirus infected. I think there is good reason to start by thanking the Prime Minister of the Government, the Minister for Health, for the handling that has been done and thanking our skilled health care professionals with the Director of the Health Authority in charge of informing, but also for the way in which the staff at the hospitals make a professional effort. The legislation we have here is just the first part of the most intrusive legislation in the history of Denmark since the occupation, when it comes to personal freedom. That is the historical perspective we are talking about. This, of course, places a special responsibility on us, who are members of the Folketing. I think it is very reasonable that we should be based on the fact that we are faced with a situation in which many will be infected, some will also die, many will be seriously ill, many will know who will die. That is why this is a very serious situation. There will be a capacity pressure on our health services if we do not do well enough, and that is likely to happen anyway. So it has great human consequences for a lot of people. It is not only in relation to disease and death, but also in relation to the fact that there are many who are at risk of getting into the situation that it affects their economy. It is the case that it will affect the labour market, that it will affect business and that it will affect the most vulnerable groups in our society. So it is clear that this is something that we must take seriously, and so it is also the case that we shoulder to shoulder, even though we are not too close, make sure that we support the resolute intervention and action that is being taken now. I can only support that. I am therefore delighted that several of my fellow Members have also mentioned that, when we deal with this draft law in the next few hours, we shall have to look at the legal aspects of it. I think it is important that the element is looked at, that one can break the inviolability of the dwelling and that one should not make sure that there is a backward court order. This could be an initiative that could be taken. This is something we have done in the past in the field of defence, when some years ago we had to look at it where another government would like to do so without a court order, but where we nevertheless found a friendly solution. There are also other places where I think that the edges might just be cut, but I look forward to working on that, especially if you comply with the Left's wish to take a parallel approach in the Legal Affairs Committee here in the future, which I hope everyone will of course support. In addition, there is the whole economic issue. I think that the way in which people have been treated in the public sector is very good, and I am quite sure that everyone is very aware that it is not only the employees in the public sector who are affected by this, but also the employees in the private sector and the owners of companies in the private sector. I am thinking in particular of small self-employed people who may find themselves in a very difficult economic situation. I also think, as several people have said, that in a matter such as this we should put a little left and right aside. That is why I think it is right that I, who see myself as the right-hand side of the middle, should not only think of those in the private sector, nor just those in the public sector, which the government has so well taken care of. Of course, if this has a longer perspective, we must also look at how we can deal with those people who are outside the labour market and who are unemployed, so that they do not suddenly become victims economically, because there are some rigid rules that they have to follow, but which suddenly cannot really be done in the situation we are in. So we need to show common sense of society for all parts of society. Thank you to the government for the great effort, thank you for doing something. I want to focus on legal certainty, and then I look forward to discussing the economic perspective as well, and that will be necessary, because it will be a hard economic flick that we all get from the corona virus, whether we imagine it or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312114747	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why it is now the Minister for Health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312114802	Thank you for that, and first of all thank you for the positive reception the bill has met here in the Folketing, and also thank you for the words about the government's work. That support is not a matter of course. I am very aware that the government is very aware of this and also that this support is binding. Thank you, too, for understanding that the draft law is being dealt with urgently. It is the main priority of our government, the Danish Parliament, to contain and mitigate the serious consequences of the spread of covid-19 in Danish society as much as possible. Because the spread of the virus must be taken seriously. It is therefore an important, urgent, comprehensive and far-reaching proposal that we are discussing here today. Basically, we need to ensure that the authorities have the necessary tools to deal with the current threat and the threats we are looking into that hopefully will not, but which may appear to us from the spread of the corona virus. We must ensure that society is equipped to cope with the pressure that comes when more people are infected, because it is certain that it does. How fast and how many are we going to decide, among other things. Today, and that applies in all areas of society. This applies in hospital, in social services and in all other areas where the public provides services and services to citizens. The authorities and all our staff in the offices, on the floor, the citizens, at the top of the boards, everywhere, are doing a huge job today, a commendable job, for the time being with containment and detection and now also with mitigation. Nevertheless, the current threat from the corona virus has shown that the current legislation in a number of areas is not sufficient to ensure the authorities' ability to act, and that is why additional tools are now needed and legislation is made more flexible. The Government therefore proposes, among other things, that it be possible to impose an obligation on persons who are likely to be infected to be isolated, so that they can be ordered to do so. We also believe that it is necessary to ban larger assemblies and events and to prohibit access to, or restrictions on, means of transport to a greater extent than is currently the case. We are calling for increased traceability for the authorities, for example. by providing for rules on information obligations for people who are infected and where detection will be crucial. In addition, the government proposes that it should be possible to lay down rules allowing the rights of citizens and obligations of authorities to be waived for a temporary period. We do this to ensure that our hospitals and our care sector can give priority to resources. Ensure that there is capacity for the treatment and care of persons with acute and life-threatening diseases. This also applies, of course, to those citizens who may become seriously ill after being infected with the corona virus. But this also applies to all other citizens who have acute and life-threatening diseases. What we are talking about is that it may be appropriate to limit the right to rapid investigation, the right to free hospital elections or the right to prevent home visits. As several rapporteurs have said, this is far-reaching, and that is also why in the proposal here there is a proposal to include an end clause • that is what is called a sunset clause • so that this bill is automatically repealed in less than one year's time, i.e. per year. 1 March 2021. The draft law therefore allows the Minister for Health to make a number of announcements. As far as some of them are concerned, it will be necessary to do something now and set something in motion right now; as far as a number of them are concerned, it will not be necessary to do anything now and hopefully not be necessary, but they will be able to be put into effect at short notice, as the health authorities recommend, depending on how things will develop. For each of those announcements it will also be possible to introduce sunset clauses, i.e. the same as in the legislative proposal, and it will be possible to set a much shorter time limit on the notices so that they automatically end at an earlier stage than the law itself expires, so that we only lay down the measures necessary to deal with the specific situations we face. In addition, it is proposed that the bill should enter into force by means of an order in the Official Gazette. These were the words to the Folketing, and I would also like to say a few words to the people. I know there have been some stories about some hoarding, and hoarding is obviously unwise. In general terms, in general terms, there is reason to thank the people for taking a huge responsibility for themselves and for each other during this time. We must stand together just by not being together physically, but we will only get through this with care and by keeping our heads down, even in situations where we can get nervous and it can be difficult to keep our minds focused on the advice and guidance of the health authorities. Thank you. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312115348	There is one brief comment to Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312115357	Thank you for the floor, and thank you for a thorough review, and thank the government for taking this so seriously. I have one question about the economics, which I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech. Citizens are entitled to compensation from the State for damage-related interventions under Article 27 of the current Code of Epidemics. The current legislation leaves no doubt that the losses suffered by citizens will be compensated for. Under the emergency law, citizens lose their right to compensation from the State, unless it is an expropriation within the meaning of the Constitution. Will the Minister explain how the threshold laid down in the bill is to be drawn between cases where citizens are right and not entitled to compensation? Will the companies which are entitled to compensation under the old Article 27 be able to expect that they will also be compensated to the same extent by expropriation? Or is Article 27 really about spending on the private sector today rather than on the state, as was the case with the old legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200312115507	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312115509	No one can promise that anyone will get through this painlessly, and this is also true of organisers, but as far as this bill is concerned, the descriptions of expropriation in section 73 of the Constitution are completely unchanged, and that is to say, in the end, the question of whether an intervention is expropriational will be something that can be brought before the courts. This is something that can be brought before the courts. In parallel with this, however, as has also been mentioned, the government is, as has been said, my ministerial colleagues in dialogue with industry on compensation schemes, and this applies to various sectors of industry. This also applies to organisers and others who will be affected by cancellations due to injunctions. Otherwise, I would also recommend that we provide some written material that can be included, possibly in a report or other, in relation to the legislative procedure today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312115609	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312115611	It is merely a follow-up: will the new wording of Article 27, which removes the right to compensation outside the case of expropriation, mean that fewer citizens are entitled to compensation than if the current Article 27, which gives citizens the right to compensation, is continued? And will the new paragraph make it cheaper or more expensive for the private sector to get through the crisis in relation to the old paragraph?
ParlaMint-DK_20200312115639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312115641	I think that with regard to the part of the question which is about whether it is more expensive or cheaper than the old paragraph, I will be very careful to provide an answer on a stand-by basis. I'd like to see how much we can get the drill out. But it is such an all-other-equality consideration in a situation that we have not been in before, and that means that calculations of those scenarios will probably be a little difficult to deliver. In the ministry they will be very, very helpful in our committee work, also with a technical review and other, to deliver the calculations they can provide. But it's all other equals where it's hard to compare with something in a reality that doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312115718	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Elderly, with the involvement of the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312115732	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Folketing will be held today. The Rules of Procedure mean that I have to say a moment, and I say this at 9 a.m. 16.00, with the second reading of L 133, but with the addition that if the committee has not completed its work and therefore with the submission of the report, a vote will be taken at a later date. I will report that here from the platform at 1 p.m. 4:00 p.m.
