ParlaMint-DK_20201111130005	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Education and Research (Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen): Bill no. 78 (Proposal for a law amending the law on vocational education and Bachelor's degree programmes, the law on maritime education and various other laws and repealing the law on free space and scholarship for certain foreign students in vocational education and Bachelor's degree programmes. Employment Minister (Peter Hummelgaard): Bill no. 79 (Proposal for a law amending the Act on active employment, the Law on the organisation and support of employment, etc., the Act on Active Social Policy and the Act on Compensation for Disabled Persons in Occupations, etc.) Bill No. 80 (Proposal for a law amending the law on maternity compensation. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Mattia Tesfaye): Bill No. 81 (Proposal for a law prohibiting the receipt of donations from certain natural and legal persons. ) Minister for Economic Affairs (Simon Kollerup): Bill No. 82 (Proposal for a Law amending the Companies Act, the Law amending the Companies Act and the Financial Statements Act, and the Law authorising temporary derogations from the obligations of companies in the field of company and accounting in the context of covid-19. Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior (Astrid Krag) Bill No. 83 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Municipal Income Tax and the Law on Municipal Equalisation and General Grants to Municipalities. Transport Minister (Benny Engelbrecht): Bill No. 84 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Roads, etc.) and the Railway Act. Minister of Justice (Nick Hækkerup): Bill No. 85 (Proposal for a law amending the Penal Code. Bill No. 86 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Police Activities. Tax Minister (Morten Bødskov): Bill no. 87 (Proposal for a law on the supervision of the IT area of customs and tax administration.), Bill No. 88 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the taxation of members of account-leading investment funds and the Corporate Tax Act. Bill No. 89 (Proposal for a Law amending the Corporate Tax Act and the Fund Tax Act. Titles on the reported cases will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111130149	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 12 November 2020. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Morten Messerschmid, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111130224	Thank you. As if there were no problems enough to deal with, the West finds itself in a serious conflict with broad parts of the Muslim world, and this became clear not least when the high school teacher Samuel Paty died a few weeks ago in Paris, in the city from which the ideals of freedom and the idea of freedom originally sprang; he lost his life and thus became another victim in the struggle between the ideals of freedom of the West and the darkened Islamism that is currently particularly emerging from the Middle East. In that battle it is important that Denmark and each one are on the right side of history. It has to be said that Macron, as the leader of his country, has shown a clear direction, has shown that he will not bow to either terrorism or Islamism, but on the contrary, he will take severe action against the hotspots that produce the terrorists and Islamists to the enemies of our culture. We also need to show clearly in Denmark that we are on the side of democracy, freedom and freedom of expression, and that we are doing so through a uncompromising declaration of confidence and support for the French people and the French Government. That is why we have wanted the question debate we have today on an urgent question which was then postponed for a week because of other circumstances to make sure that the government here is bound to be on the path of freedom and to ensure that the enemies of our culture, the enemies of our democracy, will hear us incessantly and that the French will know that we are there for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111130431	Thank you. Then we are ready for the answer, and that is the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111130438	Thank you for that, President, and thank the proposers for this opportunity to explain the government's policy towards Turkey. First of all, I would like to stress that Denmark, as everyone knows, stands shoulder to shoulder with France, even in the difficult times that France has been through and is in. Since the last two debates on Turkey in October last year, Turkey has continued to draw a great deal of international attention, not only in Denmark, but also in the other EU countries and NATO countries, and unfortunately this is not a good thing; on the contrary. Turkey has continued its provocations and this has led to clear condemnations from the Danish Government and from across the EU. I would like to begin my reply by explaining the Government's position on the Turkish Government's announcements following the assassination of the French schoolteacher Samuel Paty on 16 October and the steps taken by the government in this regard. The killing in France was a terrible atrocity. It was a completely meaningless reaction to the fact that a French teacher was simply doing his job. Since then, there have been new terrorist attacks in Nice and Vienna. The government has unequivocally distanced itself from the absolutely terrible terrorist attacks. We have expressed our deepest sympathy with the victims, the French people and the French Government. It is tragic that France must now again be subjected to terror following the attacks on Charlie Hebdo and Bataclan. Freedom of expression is a fundamental value of a democratic society. We cannot and will not accept that militant Islamists, through terrorist acts, threaten our democratic rights and values. When our constitutional right is kidnapped, we have to fight back for everything in the world. Democracy is about being able to express disagreements freely without the use of violence and power. It is necessary to stand together across religion and political conviction in the fight for freedom of expression and against terrorism and violent extremism. Turkey's reactions to the murder in Paris are appalling. Instead of expressing sympathy and condolences, the Turkish Government decided to call for a boycott of French goods. This is obviously a step in the wrong direction, and President Erdogan's repeated personal outcome against President Macron is also totally unacceptable. I myself have made it quite clear to the Turkish Government that this behaviour is totally unacceptable, both to the Turkish Minister for Trade and to the Turkish Foreign Minister, last Friday. I stressed that freedom of expression is a fundamental value in a democratic society, and I also distanced myself clearly from any call for a trade boycott. To the Turkish Foreign Minister, I called for Turkey to do its part so as not to nurture the forces that are now calling for hatred and violence. I note that Turkey did indeed respectfully condolence after the terrorist attacks in Nice and Vienna. Turkey's conflict with France is just the latest of Turkish foreign policy provocations and challenges. In the Eastern Mediterranean, Turkey has long acted in violation of international rules on the Law of the Sea. Turkey's disagreement over maritime demarcation with Greece and Cyprus must, of course, be resolved through negotiation and not in a confrontational way through unilateral actions, as we have seen. Recently, Turkey has been blowing fire in the Caucasus through its direct support for Azerbaijan in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, a conflict which has once again broken out in flames. In the Middle East, Turkey also plays an ambiguous role. It is true that Turkey is an important NATO partner, which has made significant contributions to the fight against ISIL, but at the same time Turkey is trying to pursue its very own narrow agenda, among other things. with unacceptable military aggression in the Kurdish dominated area of Syria. I have clearly condemned this on several occasions. I have therefore also worked in the European Union for the most stringent common line possible, focusing on concrete actions. So we have been able to have a clear condemnation from a single European Union and a common restrictive EU line in relation to arms exports to Turkey. There is therefore a long record or indictment of whether or not Turkey can be brought before it, and this is the case, while the domestic political situation in Turkey is similarly characterised by setbacks. This applies, in particular, to Turkey's lack of respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. The continued imprisonment of human rights defenders and elected politicians, including Kurdish mayors, is further worrying. I also expressed all this to the Turkish ministers last week. That brings me to the EU relationship with Turkey. There is no doubt that cooperation has become increasingly strained. At the EU Heads of State or Government meeting of the European Council on 2 October 2020, there was a slender hope that Turkey would choose dialogue and cooperation in the future. The conclusions of the meeting, and I quote: 'Continued to maintain constructive efforts to stop illegal activities against Greece and Cyprus, the European Council has agreed to launch a positive political agenda between the European Union and Turkey'. However, that goodwill on the part of the European Union brought Turkey to shame. Just two weeks later, on 16 October, the Heads of State or Government of the European Union had to reject new Turkish provocations again. As I said, the attitude of the government is that the Turkish provocations are completely unacceptable. It draws Turkey even further away from the European Union and from European values, and it is neither in Turkey's long-term interest nor in the European Union's long-term interest. The European Union, or rather the Community at that time, has had reciprocal cooperation with Turkey since the Association Agreement was concluded in 1963. Since then, cooperation has been continuously strengthened for the benefit of both parties and, above all, of our peoples. Over the years, there have been both ups and downs for cooperation; repeated military coups have been pushing democracy in Turkey for decades, and Erdogan has not made it any easier. Many Turks, however, still have a secular, European-oriented Turkey as a model, and it is not in our interest to abandon them by completely slamming the door on Europe, but it does not make sense to conduct the EU's enlargement negotiations with the Turkey we know today. Nor can we escape the fact that Turkey has a key geopolitical role as a bridge between Europe and the Middle East. Turkey plays a key role for the European Union and for NATO for good and for evil. In many ways we have a clear interest in cooperation with Turkey. The EU agreement of 2016 on inter alia: the management of irregular migration is an obvious example of this. In Denmark and in Europe, we have a clear interest in cooperating with Turkey on migration if we are to avoid new migration crises, and that is why the EU and Turkey have concluded a migration agreement, which the government supports, and Turkey houses up to 4 million refugees and migrants. We must recognise Turkey's efforts to help refugees from the conflict in Syria, but at the same time we must reject the Turkish Government's use of refugees and migrants as a means of political pressure, as we saw when Turkey opened its border with Greece in March of this year. I also had to make it quite clear here that we will not be subjected to Erdogan's blackmail and that it is totally unacceptable and unreasonable when he sends people towards a closed border. As in other difficult foreign policy issues, there are no easy solutions. However, maintaining dialogue and cooperation as far as possible will always be better than opting out of dialogue. Against this background, the government's position is that dialogue and cooperation with Turkey are still needed. In terms of content, it must clearly be given priority to selected areas of major interest to the EU and to Denmark, particularly the management of irregular migration and trade. There is no point in believing that the repeal of all the EU's agreements with Turkey will solve the current challenges, and the government will work to ensure that a united European Union remains vigilant about the fundamental values and will be clearly opposed to Erdogan's confrontational line. This is the starting point for the government at the forthcoming meeting of the Heads of State or Government of the European Union on 10 and 11 December this year. Turkey is once again on the agenda here. This will be an important debate, in which new decisions may well be needed. The government is also looking forward to the discussion here today with the parties. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111131421	Thank you. Now there is the possibility of a brief remark from each of the rapporteurs. It's Michael Aastrup Jensen first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111131427	Thank you, Secretary of State. This is something we have also discussed in depth, for example. The Foreign Policy Name and I fully agree with the Minister that there is no easy quickfix here, but I think we all agree that if we are to do something about Erdogan, which is becoming more and more aggressive and which is starting to take advantage of this refugee agreement, we will also have to go away from the one who turns the other cheek-to-tactics that this government, but also the European Union as a whole, has had, because you have been nervous, drawing a line in the sand. For some of the things you're gradually learning is that when you're dealing with a bully and I think Erdogan is a bully, you're also forced to man up every once in a while and say that what he's doing has consequences. That is why I also think it was wrong that the government would not support saying that if sanctions are imposed either directly or indirectly against France, as recommended by Erdogan, we must of course do counter-sanctions immediately. We needed to hear the government say that, because then it would have been value-based policy, which also stood by its positions, rather than only condemnations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111131535	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111131536	Thank you, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen. I don't know which government, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen refers to which should turn the other cheek. Perhaps it is the previous government, as Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen's own party was a member of. This government has reacted resolutely to Turkey and, in relation to France, we have stood shoulder to shoulder with France, including with regard to the provocations that Erdogan has made to France. Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen too well. We have had in-depth discussions in the Political Affairs Committee on these matters. So I can totally deny that this should be a government that is not ready to take the necessary conflicts with Turkey as well. The way that Erdogan is leading Turkey at the moment is totally unacceptable, and I think it is important that Europe, including France, should be united in rejecting the provocations that we see.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111131621	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111131624	On the whole, I would like to ask whether the Foreign Minister regards Erdogan's Turkey as an ally of Denmark, an ally of the West. It is certainly very difficult to see how that feeling should be reciprocated by Erdogan. He hardly misses an opportunity to act like Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen called him an enemy, I would say. He speculates directly about destabilising conditions in the Mediterranean. He supports the terrorists who are killing our fellow citizens around Europe. He speaks dunders against those government leaders who dare to speak against Islamism quite differently from the Danish Government and dare to declare the obvious right thing, as Macron has done, that Islam is in crisis. Erdogan brings together the dark Islamic forces in the Middle East, from Iran, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, etc., in a joint action against Europe. And in Denmark we have a foreign minister who dares not take any consequence of it other than to say that there are good forces in Turkey as well. So, Foreign Minister, is Erdogan's Turkey an ally of Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111131728	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111131729	You don't get the right to bring things that are obviously wrong. If any government has also spoken dunders against the provocations that Erdogan has made, it is the Danish Government. We have stood shoulder to shoulder with France, including in this case. We have worked hard to ensure that we have a common clear European response to the provocations we see. Our fundamental values are: freedom of expression, freedom of religion, our values of freedom, we are one hundred per cent watched over, and we are ready to act against Turkey when these rights are trampled underfoot. We are ready to use the tools that we agree with our allies. Then we are asked whether Turkey is an ally. Turkey is a NATO member country. Morten Messerschmidt is a very good country and Denmark is also a NATO member country, and it is Germany, the United States, Canada and so on. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, And, of course, we in Denmark intend to honour our commitment to security and solidarity in NATO. That is also what our own Danish security rests on: all NATO countries do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111131829	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111131831	Thank you. It is always tempting to swing up to use the big words when it comes to discussing such things, because all of us are appalled by outrage and anger at what we see. I now think that the Foreign Minister made a very balanced speech. And when I say that, it is because we have to ask ourselves the question: who are we doing things for? And as I understand the question, it is about solidarity with France. And there I would like the Foreign Minister to say something about what France's desire is for, how we deal with the current conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111131914	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111131915	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. We have a completely close dialogue with France, including with regard to the reactions that France and we also think are right, to Turkey. It is, on the one hand, to stand 100% and to be completely vigilant about the fundamental values of freedom in Europe, freedom of expression and other values of freedom, and, on the other hand, to be ready for dialogue and descalation, in order also to show that what Erdogan is doing is a provocation that we do not allow ourselves to be tempted by. And it is true in Turkey that there is also a people who are European-minded and who actually share the desire to see a more European Turkey than that which Erdogan is bringing Turkey towards. That is why we are inundated with France about the reactions, and we will continue to do so. And when a proposal for adoption is later put forward here from the platform, the government will be behind it because we think it is important. We must respond wisely to provocations, and that is also what Mr. Jens Rohde points out that it should be wise in a way that serves our interests and our values; I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111132026	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There are no more brief comments and I would like to say that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will come to the end of the debate, so that anyone other than the rapporteurs can also have the opportunity to ask questions. Now we move on to the further negotiations, and hence to the general rules that we have, too short a comment. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111132055	Thank you, President. In recent years, relations with Turkey have developed into an increasingly strained relationship, it has to be said. There is no doubt that Erdogan sees himself as being in opposition to the EU in anything other than pakunitial areas, of course, because pre-accession aid is welcome. But it does mean that we in Europe and in Denmark also have to ask what we want to do with Turkey, and because we are dealing with a country which, while one of our closest allies, namely France, is kneeling, hit by terrorist attacks in the heart of its own capital, openly chooses to mock France, which chooses to think that it is the Muslims who have been mocked as a result of Samuel Paty's showing the Mohammed cartoons, it is an absolutely crucial breach of what must be the basis of any kind of alliance, which is what is fundamental to a society in which we want to live. Since they were on the losing side of World War I, Turkey has had the chance. Chemism built up, separated religion and politics, made sure that there was a ban on wearing a scarf in universities, provided a lot of good and sensible things that allowed one to believe that Turkey was moving in a western direction. It also ensured in the Constitution that the army was there to strike hard when the extremists seized power. For we are well aware that in every Muslim country there is a latent threat that a majority of the population puts Islam above democracy, as is the customary teaching in the majority of Muslim countries. That is why, in order to have a democracy in a Muslim country, there is a guarantee, and it has been the army, but also the army, Erdogan, with the European Union as useful idiots, has succeeded in getting the pressure back. Today, we have a country that is becoming full-blooded Islamist with Erdogan as the new caliph of the caliphs in the Middle East. And that relationship speaks both to history, but also to each of us: Which side do we stand on? And there must be no doubt, and that is why I ask the Foreign Minister: is Erdogan's Turkey our allies? The correct answer is, of course, no. On paper, Turkey is our ally in NATO, but with the conflicts that Turkey seems to be raging into in Nagorno-Karabakh, and what do I know, should we send Danish soldiers to fight that war because Turkey is part of NATO? Of course not. There must be a limit to how much we in the West must accept if we are to defend the heritage and the values, the democracy and the view of life that is now ours, and that limit has been reached. That is why we must respond harshly to the provocations presented to us by Erdogan and other like-minded people in the Middle East. We must respond harshly with trade sanctions, diplomatic sanctions and with political consistency. Turkey must, of course, never be a member of the European Union, and Turkey must no longer one day be a candidate country for the European Union. Turkey must not receive pre-accession aid and we do not want any diplomatic relations with this country. For as long as we do, it is of course we who bear the responsibility for Erdogan's continuing economic power. It's not the West's way. If we want to respect Samuel Paty, if we want to respect Macron, and if we want to respect the community of values that is now the West, then we must also declare it openly: we are at war with Islamism! They are leading the war behind our borders, and it is time for us to respond with adequate means instead of hand-wringing to sit here and say: Uh, there are also good and nice forces in Turkey. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111132508	There are brief comments. First, it's from sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111132511	That's all very well. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, what kind of agreements are we going to cancel? Should we cancel the migration agreement from 2016? Morten Messerschmidt ready for that? Should we tell Turkey that we do not want NATO to make use of their bases for our actions, where, among other things, we do. Trying to fight regimes that celebrate Islamism? Are these the sort of agreements, the kind of cooperation that we have to terminate with Turkey?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111132552	Yes, we must definitely terminate that migration agreement. It's been a disaster. And, of course, we must ensure that the Greeks and everyone else in the Aegean are helped to guard the European border. It is also Denmark's border as things stand now. We must make it absolutely clear to the Turks that the ridiculous situation that has been brought to us, the European Union, by now being in Erdogan's grip, where he can do one thing or the other because of this agreement and sending out streams of refugees, if it suits him, we will not accept it. We will not accept paying billions in pre-accession aid. We will not accept giving them structural funds. We won't accept any of this. And in relation to the bases, I am quite sure that Israel will be benevolent if we are to have bases in the Middle East. I simply refuse to accept that Denmark or Europe and our security should be in the hands of a mad man like Erdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111132640	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111132641	Well, that's nice to know. Then there is at least clarity about it: we must terminate that migration agreement. Everyone remembers what happened in 2009 when Merkel said that we had negotiated on the snare, that we had to offer Turkey a privileged partnership, bum, then Erdogan turned around, and then he made visa and trade agreements with the countries south, and then we had the flow of refugees. For the Turks did not want them, for they just sent them over the Strait of Evros. We all remember that. That was when the two of us joined the European Parliament, and that is where the refugee crisis started in earnest. So that's the scenario, sir. Morten Messerschmidt is running here in his anger about what's going on. I share the anger about what is going on, but that is why we must act wisely anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111132725	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111132726	I could not hear whether there was a question, but I can answer anyway, all the time that what is of course the answer to Erdogan is to build Fortress Europe, and then, of course, we must denounce the conventions to which crazy people have committed us and which make it possible for people to enter Europe at all to seek asylum, as it is called. Europe is not responsible for the failed states in the Middle East where people do not want to live. It's not our responsibility. We may have an interest in solving the problems, but that is not our responsibility. That is why we must close Europe off and ensure that our world can defend itself against the madness of the Islamist world.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111132802	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111132803	Now Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has much of his speaking time to commend the French President, Macron, but Macron has just been very careful to distinguish between terrorist Islamists on the one hand and ordinary Muslims on the other. It has been a complete core of what Macron has said. And as someone who has often been in Turkey and has met people from Turkey who have been tortured in Turkish prisons, I also understand very well the difference between the two. That's why I just want to ask Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, if he also understands the difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111132850	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111132852	Yes, and that is precisely why I wonder why people who say that they have fled the Sharia machine down in the Middle East can come here and then suddenly become supporters, for example. Hizb ut-Tahrir. It is unbelievable that such a thing can happen. I was at the King's Nytorv a few weeks ago, where Hizb ut-Tahrir was very serious about the French Embassy and taunted the French and said that it was the Muslims who had been stepped on because the French wanted to show the drawings. What's this? How on earth have the people who say that they have fled the acts of terror down in Muslim countries ever entered Denmark? They should have stayed down there. And I hope that Mr. Søren Søndergaard and I can agree that we should push them back down there as soon as we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111132933	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111132934	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt confirmed that, unlike Macron, he can't see the difference, but cuts everyone over one comb. The number of people from Hizb ut-Tahrir was a smaller number than there is in an average Turkish prison cell, which there are tens of thousands of people there are tens of thousands of, right? That's the point. Erdogan is also waging war against his own people, against many ordinary Muslims. The Islamists do. Are those of whom Islamists have killed most, Europeans? Who has the Islamists killed most of the time, sir? Morten Messerschmidt?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111133014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111133014-2	I'm sure Enhedslisten has better control of that number. But I would just like to say that it is thought-provoking that in the 1990s it was the mission of the left to say that we who warned against Islam's immigration into Europe were racists. There you have capitulated and you say, "Okay, there's probably some of those Muslims that it's a little crazy about." Everyone who can read inside knows that now and then. Now the strategy is so obvious to say: Uha, those who warn cannot at all tell the difference between the good, secular, democratic Muslim and then the terrorist. That's nonsense, sir. Søren Søndergaard. And if sir... Søren Søndergaard enters the archives and reads what I said just 15 minutes ago, he will be confirmed in that what he says is nonsense.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111133046	Then it's Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111133110	It is understandable that we all agree that there must be a sharper rhetoric towards Erdogan, but in relation to the belligerent performance here by Mr. Morten Messerschmidt: What does Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is the consequence of this, if we go as wary as Erdogan, close all relations with Turkey and simply declare war on Islam? What will the consequence be, sir? Morten Messerschmidt?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111133140	There is certainly a sound of Chamberlain on the Conservative rapporteur's question here, because are there not historical examples that we have waited too long to fight tyrants? I think we have to say that there is, Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. People like Erdogan understand only one language, and that's the hard language. That is why Erdogan today, with confidence and self-fatness, is just looking at a Europe that is not willing to defend itself, because Europe is shaking its pants if he threatens to terminate the migration agreement we have concluded and because Europe is shaking its pants if he talks dunder to his Islamist friends down in the Middle East. It might be, Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, that for once someone had to speak to Mr. Erdogan
ParlaMint-DK_20201111133223	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111133224	Thank you. But what consequence would it have had in the Islamic world, and what would we see against us? Would it be a viable road, and what kind of weapons could be used against us, and where are the solutions really going to be found? Thinks sir. Morten Messerschmidt, that you can win over Islam by putting Erdogan under administration?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111133246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111133247	I don't know what it means to put Erdogan under administration. But I believe that we can win over Islamism, not by sluggish speech and peaceful humanist declarations, but by putting a hard fight against it, by declaring that Islamism is our enemy, and that anyone who incites Islamism, anyone who incites terrorism, will be met by us as our enemy. And I would say that if members of the Conservative People's Party cannot understand it today, I think Christmas Møller and other good people turn in their graves.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111133314	I see no one else who has asked for short remarks. That's why we're grateful to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and proceed to mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111133331	Thank you for that, President. After all, whether we are talking about balances or swinging higher, there is a serious reason why we are standing here today. Unfortunately, terrorist attacks are not a new phenomenon, even by militant Islamist forces. It has been recurring, but the answer must be the same: we must never give in to the violence or threats. An attack on our friends, our allies, our close partners and our common values is an attack on us. And that is why there is no doubt that we are on the side of France. We sympathise with them and also with the Austrians, who, unfortunately, have subsequently been hit by terror. Today's question is about Turkey and relations with the European Union, and there are not many bright points to highlight recently. Turkey has attracted unlucky attention. The recent confrontational course shows that, unfortunately, Turkey is moving further away from Europe. This is not a new trend. Turkish civil society has long been under enormous pressure. The judicial system can no longer be described as independent. There has been a strengthening of the executive and we have politically motivated arrests, judicial dismissals and attacks on lawyers and human rights defenders. The Turkish reaction in the wake of the killing of Samuel Paty in France has no place. In Denmark and Europe, you have to draw and print what you want. We will never accept that it is the militant Islamists who, through terrorist acts, must determine or threaten our democratic rights and values. That is why the call for a boycott of French goods is the main shaker. And Erdogan's personal attack on President Macron is completely unacceptable. It is not about Islamophobia; it is about defending freedom of expression, one of the most fundamental values of a democratic society. The pretext for EU cooperation with Turkey must be that Turkey accepts our fundamental values. Turkish provocations are totally unacceptable in this context. We must reject the Turkish Government's attempt to use refugees and migrants as a means of political blackmail. However, the negative developments in Turkey do not mean that we should withdraw from all cooperation. We must prevent the situation from getting out of control. No one is served by an escalation of conflict; after all, dialogue is better than the absence of dialogue; nothing else is in the interests of either the European Union or Turkey. So we have an interest in maintaining diplomatic relations in a number of areas, not least the migration agreement, which has also been mentioned several times today. In this context, Turkey has played an important role in reducing irregular migration towards Europe. However, when we cooperate, we also have to make demands, of course, and we have to say no. That is why closer cooperation between the European Union and Turkey must require Turkey to accept the values of the European Union, including freedom of expression. That is not what we are seeing right now, and therefore it does not make sense to carry out the enlargement negotiations with Turkey in the current situation. That is why it makes sense to sharpen the course towards Turkey. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, Radicals, SF, Enhedslisten and the Conservative People's Party, I would like to read out the following proposals for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament declares full solidarity with France as a victim of militant Islamist terrorist attacks. The Folketing considers that the government should support EU sanctions that the French Government may be asking for. The Folketing considers Erdogan's military aggression in Kurdish-dominated areas in Syria unacceptable, condemns Erdogan's boycott call and calls on the government to work for a reinforced EU course towards Turkey. • V • • • • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20201111133743	This will now be part of the further debate. And there are questions. First, it's sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111133748	Thank you. The Social Democrat rapporteur says that Turkey has attracted unfortunate attention. I think that's an understatement of format. For what exactly has Turkey done? They have been involved in testing our patience over and over again, buying Russian missile systems, giving weapons and personnel to Azerbaijan in their war against Armenia. They have been inside and invade our Kurdish allies in Syria, directly contrary to everything that just reminds us of common sense and stability in that area. And then they also tried to drill in Greek and Cypriot territory. So again and again, they've gone this way, and what is it they say every time they're met by something? They say: remember, we have a refugee agreement. The rapporteur also refers to this. But then let us stick to the refugee agreement. The refugee agreement is not just a gift for Erdogan. The refugee agreement is that Turkey is being paid to deal with these refugees. So to start using it as such a carte blanche for everything is wrong. That is why my question is really the same as that of the Minister: does the Social Democrats not agree that if you have to deal with a bully, it is also the case that you have to draw a line in the sand every once in a while rather than just leave it at the words?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111133859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111133900	I understand that sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen is tackling it, and I would like to say that when I say that it has attracted unlucky attention, it is not because I believe that in any way the rhetoric should be reduced to the specific examples that Mr Aastrup Jensen has given us. Michael Aastrup Jensen mentions. That is also why we say that what has happened in relation to France, with the results against the French President and the things that have been said about the murder, is unacceptable and, of course, we must condemn this, so we must draw a line in the sand, as Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen says. So we are very much in agreement on that. When I say that this is unfortunate attention, it is really more about the overall movement away from Europe. We must, of course, look at the actual results, where we say that we will not put up with this, and there we are on the side of France. We're gonna stand there and we're gonna say no. However, the real political discussion that we also have cooperation with Turkey in some areas, Mr President. Michael Aastrup Jensen refers to the refugee agreement as an example. That is why we must, of course, at the same time, at the same time say no when it is necessary, act and keep in touch in those areas where we have a mutual interest in cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111134015	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111134016	But to say from in this case would have been that the government, when the French called their ambassador back, had also called our ambassador back at the same moment. Action would also have been if we went out and said that any indirect or direct call for a boycott is a call for a boycott, which would have the same effect, understood that then we would also boycott the countries that had to go out and boycott the French. That would have been real action. It would have been value-based policy, which one looks up at one wants to lead on the part of the Social Democratic Party. We have not seen that yet, and that is why I am just saying: let us see that kind of action too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111134054	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111134055	After all, we have said quite unequivocally that we are in the middle of a situation like this with France. Today's proposal for adoption also says that if France believes that what is the right response is sanctions on the part of the European Union, then the Danish Government will support it. It can therefore be said that declaring our full support for France is not just a free declaration. This means that we are actually on France's side, even when it is difficult. That is why the important thing for us has been that we were actually behind France and did not go in front of France and got confused what the French were actually in demand for solidarity and support.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111134138	Then it's Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111134139	Could be, sir. Jens Joel, that it would be very good for France, for Europe, for Denmark, that others other than just France dared take this on the agenda of the European Union. It could, of course, be the most stated declaration of solidarity to ask for this to be dealt with or to do what the French did in parallel with their ambassadors in order to show that they stood shoulder to shoulder. I think sir... Jens Joel and I both remember how alone Denmark was then with the drawings; how other countries around the EU showed up and thought: Oh, do we now have to take the lead? In fact, I think that Denmark should have taken the lead here. I mean, in other contexts you want to be the front. When it comes to Russia and Crimea, etc., one does not hold back from using trade sanctions as an instrument. So why is it that, when it comes to Erdogan and Turkey, you put your neck down? I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111134232	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111134233	But Denmark does not pop its neck. The Danish Government does not pop its neck when we signal and say quite clearly that we are on the side of France. However, it is not on the side of France to do anything that France considers to be unbearable in the conflict they have. We're being asked about the ambassador. It is true that the French ambassador has been called home and, by the way, is back in Ankara. But it has not been the case that France wanted us to react in the same way; that we should do something in solidarity. We must, of course, be careful that we do not get to torpedo the efforts made by the French Government to actually strike the right balance in this and not to step it up. That is why solidarity is, after all, to stand firm, that if they need help, they will get that help. But we must not invent or create a new problem for the French Government by making progress without wishing to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111134334	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111134335	But it is basically about how to view Europe's position. It is not only France that is under attack. Unfortunately, as the Foreign Minister mentioned, we had an attack afterwards in Vienna. In other words, there is almost no EU country that has not tried to taste the sweetness of immigration and the hardness of Islamism. That's reality. That is why it is not just a question of bilateral relations between Denmark and France, but it is a question of the approach to this. So why has the Danish Government, led by the Social Democrats, or there is nothing but the Social Democrats, called for an Intergovernmental Conference and discussed our position in the light of what has happened in Paris, Nice, Vienna? How do we deal with the attack we are under on Islamism?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111134414	Thank you. Then it's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111134415	Firstly, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has made a clear statement. Secondly, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt also read in the proposal for adoption, which I know he has both heard now, but also received in advance, after all, we are asking for a sharper course on the part of the European Union vis-à-vis Turkey. It is therefore not isolated from the French situation, but when it comes to the French situation as it was, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt started by asking me why we are not on France's side, so the answer is that it does, and standing on France's side is to show solidarity where they need help.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111134451	I think it is my duty to point out that an urgent question is in two hours and that cannot be moved. And with the brief comments that are here, and if we are to reach everyone, there will be room for approx. 10 brief remarks • otherwise we will not reach the Minister. It's just a service briefing I'm bringing. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111134511	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I think it is very good that the government is making a proposal for adoption along with some other parties here who are saying something. But to me it is when you read what it says, just words and nothing else. There is no concrete action of importance in this proposal for adoption. We therefore call on the Danish People's Party to support France in the very, very difficult situation they face. And there I would like to hear the rapporteur tell the Folketing: what is the government intending to do in practical terms to Turkey now and forward-looking in the Council of Ministers and in other forums? Then I would also like to hear the rapporteur's assessment of the agreement I would like to call it a pact with the Devil................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Is it sustainable that we have that covenant with the Devil?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111134620	Thank you. Then it's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111134621	Well, first of all, words actually mean something. When you promise that you will support any sanctions that France may wish to impose at EU level, it will also have a consequence; then it is a tool that the European Union can take out of the box to support a Member State such as France that has been under attack. So it does matter that we, as a Parliament, and that we as a government commit ourselves to stand in the sand and burst with France, not only in the newspapers, but also in the discussions that are taking place in the European Union. It also matters when we say that we will actually sharpen the course towards Turkey. And I can read what is in the call here and in the question; I can read that all agreements with Turkey are to be cancelled. I would say that the refugee agreement, which can be said very well and badly, has meant that, regardless of how you turn around and what you are talking about, we have actually managed very much of the irregular migration that has been to Europe. And I cannot understand why the Danish People's Party is willing to lose it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111134727	Then it's mr. Peter Seier Christensen no, I'm sorry, sir. Peter Skaarup has 1⁄2 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111134729	Thank you. Let me remind you, sir. Jens Joel said that as recently as today there has been an attack in Jeddah against French interests at a memorial service in memory of World War I. France is under fire, under attack. I'm telling you, sir. Jens Joel say that France will come forward with a whole lot of initiatives if the rest of us do not take the lead? We do not imagine this in the Danish People's Party, because it is incredibly difficult, as France is currently placed in the war we have against Erdogan. So what exactly is the government going to do in relation to taking the lead here?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111134811	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111134812	The French President is under attack. France is under attack. This is an extremely difficult situation, and in this situation the French Government has actually said: we need to know that you are there; we need to know that you are behind us. We need to know that we can count on you. That is what the Danish Government has said, and that is what we in Parliament are saying today. The best support that can be given to France in a situation where they have not actually asked for the conflict to escalate is that they can count on us standing there when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111134844	Then it's mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111134846	Thank you. I can see from the proposal for adoption here that the government will work for a stronger EU course towards Turkey, and the rapporteur has also mentioned it. Can the rapporteur mention anything specific about what the government is going to work for in order for the EU to sharpen its course towards Turkey?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111134904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111134906	I think I heard it all; there's a low sound in the microphone of Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. What is involved in a sharpened EU course? That's how I hear the question. And it has to be said that, unfortunately, we do not know exactly because we do not know how the world develops. But what is the commitment here is, in fact, what I also hear other rapporteurs are asking for, namely that we are willing to give more attention to Turkey. That is what I see as a sharpened EU course. And what should then lie in it will, of course, depend on what France is asking for, or whether other EU countries might be attacked, come under pressure. But we are willing to sharpen our course, even in general terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111134954	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111134956	I'm glad to hear that. But does this mean that the government does not have any concrete initiatives that they believe they will try to push in the European Union to implement Turkey?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111135007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111135008	In other words, it can be said that, with this proposal for adoption, we are also signaling that, if the French Government so requests, we will also be involved in any sanctions or efforts to bring them into being, after all, we are expressing a sharper direction. This is one concrete example, because this question debate is about relations between the European Union and France, but it is easy to imagine that there are other areas. We also mention in the proposal for adoption very specifically the Kurdish-dominated areas of Northern Syria as an area where we are critical of what Erdogan is doing, and I think that is important to say openly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111135047	Then it's Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111135049	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. It is a good thing that a single text has been produced, and it is also good about words. But words are not enough when reality is so brutal outside and particularly affects France. So what will the government do to show more clearly Denmark's opposition to Turkey? For example, it is expected that this will be the case. to call the Turkish ambassador into a meeting? Or what else will you do to mark to Erdogan that here they have crossed the line?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111135120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111135121	Exactly which ambassadors are going to which meetings I think it would be better for the Secretary of State to respond to. But I can say that the Foreign Minister has already spoken to representatives of the Turkish Government, and in clear text has already said what is Denmark's position on these matters. So Turkey and the Turkish Government are in no doubt about where Denmark stands, nor are we on the side of France on this issue. But it is clear that there will probably be • and I do not know if it is called cod herring when it is not with the tax administration • several unpleasant ambassador meetings and invitations to coffee where the Secretary of State will speak in capital letters. But the Minister has already done so to the representatives of the Turkish Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111135210	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111135212	Thank you. We are, of course, pleased to hear that, but is the government also willing to state clearly that Turkey cannot in any way join the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111135222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111135223	Well, it makes sense, as I said in my speech, to discuss accession negotiations with Turkey at the present time or to conduct them. I mean, we're not in a situation where it's really relevant at all. They are then not so topical, you can say, or so ongoing, and therefore it is such a little thoughtful discussion, a bit of a blow in the air to say that we are not doing that anymore. Because nothing is being done about it. What is important here is to say that, in the specific situation, we must stand behind France, even if France is asking for a turn-up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111135256	There are no more brief comments, and that is why we thank the rapporteur. Then we welcome Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111135308	There is no doubt that this is actually a very serious issue. For, on the one hand, we have a Turkey which, unfortunately, for far too long has acted more and more aggressively towards its neighbours, but actually towards its allies. I myself mentioned in my question to the Socialist rapporteur that the question of France is just one of a long series of steps in which we in the West should draw a line in the sand, and I think at least clearly, if we go in and see how and how the Danish Government has behaved, that unfortunately the other cheek has been turned to. I believe that as soon as Erdogan got bloated up to go in and demand that boycotts should now be called for, and rhetorically going far beyond the line of how so-called allies should have behaved, the Danish Government should have acted with other steps than just condemnation. I think, at least, that the Danish ambassador should have been called back immediately, as France did. I think it should have been said, at least in clear terms, that if and if this call for a boycott stands, it will of course have the consequence that it is an attack on all of us in the European Union, and that therefore we would have taken the initiative to meet in the European Union and make a statement of support that a boycott against France would mean either indirectly or directly a response with a boycott against the same people. I also believe that we should have gone so far as to say that if the boycott weapon stood, then we should also be discussing possible sanctions. This does not mean that I believe that the refugee agreement should be thrown out with the bathing water, and I do not think that NATO membership with Turkey should be thrown out with the bathing water, but I just think that experience, with regard to how we should behave with Erdogan, is that when we have just started talking about whether we should not talk about it and whether we cannot meet in a room, then we have to find some solution together, nothing positive has been produced. We also had an experience when France finally went forward and said that it has consequences if they continue to break Greek and Cypriot territory, because what did we see then? Then we saw for the first time ever that Erdogan began to waver and Erdogan withdrew. So I also believe that we on the Left have facts on our side when we say that we have to draw a line in the sand and stand by it. That is why I also have to say, and I do not really mean polemical, that when you look up on the part of the government that you want to pursue a value-based foreign policy, it is no use just saying it, but then you have to do it. That is why I want to say again and again and again that we need to have a sharper direction on the part of the government, and that is why we in the Left have had this message from the outset, both in the foreign policy name and in the public domain, and so on. We can, of course, conclude with the positive spectacles and say that it is a good thing that we have got it into the proposal for adoption by a large majority of Parliament's parties, but should we not also allow ourselves to be honest and say that, if this debate had taken place on Wednesday, when it was originally planned, perhaps there would have been a majority outside the government which had instructed the government to do so here, and that it is therefore perhaps also for the first time ever that we hear the Foreign Minister talking about the possibility of EU sanctions, that is because the Foreign Minister is being pressured by a majority in this Parliament? So when you start saying that you've been thinking about that for a long time, why haven't you talked about it for a long time? That is why I believe that a sharper course is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111135719	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111135723	I was glad to hear Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen welcomes the fact that Denmark should have taken back its ambassador, and so I would just like to ask why it is not in the text that the Left supports. It would, of course, be natural, since the Left has chosen to support the red proposal for adoption, that at least some of its policy had been incorporated into it, but I just cannot see that there is anything about it, Mr President. Michael Aastrup Jensen pleads on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111135749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111135750	As Mr. Morten Messerschmidt knows well, I would always like to be able to change the rules in the Folketing in a large number of areas, but unfortunately there is a demand for only 50 words in such a proposal for adoption in urgent questions, and that is why I thought it was more important that we included them in relation to the Kurdish-dominated areas, and I thought it was significantly more important that we included them in relation to the reinforced EU course and, above all, in relation to sanctions. So calling it a red proposal for adoption is probably as far away from the truth as it was when Chamberlain came back to London and said "Peace in our time".
ParlaMint-DK_20201111135819	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111135820	Yeah, because that's what we heard earlier from the Conservatives, so you're quite afraid of the rest of the bourgeois party conglomerate here. Anyway, I would just like to say that if you have such sensible and concrete ideas on another occasion, we in the Danish People's Party would be very happy to have them put forward in the Chamber, rather than, remembering Chamberlain, voting in favour of a text that is not really covered by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111135844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111135845	We feel very well covered by this text, and for the sole reason that we are getting the Social Democracy and hence the government to back sanctions for the first time ever, we are actually very positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111135854	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Michael Aastrup Jensen. And the next one on the platform is sir. Jens Rohde, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111135906	"Man merk die Absicht und wird verstimmt·, there is a German proverb called. One senses the purpose and is voted out • one is allowed to speak another language if one translates. And that's probably how most of us feel when it comes to a man like Erdogan. Erdogan is weak. He's a coward. You're tempted to think he's suffering from penis envy. He's setting fire in the streets to cover his own weakness. He's rattling with the saber, and he's yelling and screaming. I can see the President's eye against me, but I do not think it is an impertinent expression, but the President must then rebuke me afterwards. It's a psychological term to suffer from penis envy. But when I hear Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, I would like to say the same, not in relation to the psychological term, but that one feels the intention and is voted out. For Mr. Morten Messerschmidt offers nothing but to rustle with the saber, and he wants to set fire in the streets and make worse. I find it very difficult to see that, sir. Morten Messerschmidt is advocating a declaration of solidarity for France, in that France is doing what France can to deescalate the conflict. There's a reason President Macron is sitting on Al-Jazeera and letting himself be interviewed for an hour. You can have a lot of opinions about this, that is, how to deescalate such a conflict, but if you want to show solidarity with France and that is what I understand from the query text here... you have to listen to how best we help the French. And you have to listen to how we do it together, because it's very beautiful to stand here in the Danish Parliament hall, where you can really stand and say: "Look, where we gung." So, I do not know what one imagines: whether Denmark is going to go solo and then overmatch what France really wants? Or should we try to do things with France and with the other EU countries in the hope that it can have the strongest effect on Erdogan, in that the worst thing that can happen to us on European soil is that Erdogan is allowed to sow divisions between European countries and make European countries go alone? I do not think that serves any purpose, and that is why we are also included in this proposal for adoption, which is why I would also like to commend the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a speech which I think is sharp but if you do not want to hear it sharp, you cannot hear it sharp, but I think it is sharp. And we also know through the Foreign Policy Name that a large number of initiatives have been taken. You are not just turning the other cheek into the cheek, and we cannot mention them here in the Folketing, but the government is acting. But we also need to act in common agreement with those with whom we want to show solidarity. I think the government does, and for that it should be commended, and then Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen and Mr. Jens Joel commended him for coming together on a joint proposal for adoption. I think that is best served by this, because the less division there is in this Parliament, the better it is when we send the signal against Turkey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111140332	Thank you. I didn't really hear the word in the first place, but I did in the second round, and it's probably right on the line. If another word had been used, it would clearly have been across the border. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111140343	I think it's nice that Mr. Jens Rohde challenges the limits of the Rules of Procedure. For my sake, he could have gone over it, too. That is precisely what defines a country as Denmark, the West, that we can cross each other's borders and yet talk to each other. This is freedom of speech, and this is what is at stake. That is why I am pleased that Mr. Jens Rohde feels the intention and for the purpose that I have is precisely the opposite of Mr Rohde's. Jens Rohde's defaitistic approach to the people who want to kid the freedom of speech. Sir. Jens Rohde's answer is that if we just stand together, it doesn't matter what we stand together about; if we just find a way to talk to Erdogan and the other Islamist forces, it doesn't matter what comes out of it. For the past 20 years, when Mr. Jens Rohde's line, you have to say, it's gone the wrong way. After all, Erdogan has only become entrenched, he has only become more insane and has suffered from even more of the symptoms and syndromes that Mr. Jens Rohde's name is on the platform. This is going the wrong way, and that is why there is good reason to be in favour, Mr President. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111140501	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111140502	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, we're best enemies, but that's why we're talking anyway. You have to do that, and you have to do it with those you do not like on the international stage. Because what's the alternative? Yes, history is rich in examples of this. And with regard to defaitism in relation to freedom of expression, I think it might be a little unhistory to say it nicely about me. Well, I was one of those who stood there every day during the Muhammad crisis, along with the then Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen, and there was certainly no agreement in Denmark on how to deal with the Muhammad crisis and how to deal with the concept of freedom of expression; there was not. I stood there every day, and I stand there to this day, because I have exactly the same view today of the concept that I had at the time during the Mohammed crisis, and that has nothing to do with defaitism.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111140602	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111140603	I would say that it is quite difficult to recognize Mr. Jens Rohde anno 2007 as the Mr. Jens Rohde, it's on the platform today. At the time, it is quite right to fight with Anders Fogh Rasmussen the cause of freedom, but today, when it is a matter of being talked about by a grobrian in the Middle East, whatever it is about the migratory pressure, or whether it is about freedom of speech or other freedoms, you cannot recognize it at all. Jens Rohde, we had 13 years ago as a member of the Left. And that's because he's become radical. He's radical now. He believes that as long as you talk to each other, it doesn't matter what you talk about, and that's where he's having an affair with Chamberlain and the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111140641	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111140643	Well, that's the puny nonsense that comes out of Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt's mouth, and that's because Mr. Messerschmidt doesn't understand the nuances, and that he didn't seem to understand what kind of nuance we had at the time, when we said: We actually don't relate to Jyllands-Posten's printing of the drawings • Anders Fogh Rasmussen even said at the time that he wouldn't have made the drawings himself, but we didn't relate to it • but we relate to the fact that we shouldn't relate to it, because that's exactly what freedom of the press is all about. And that's where I'm still standing. And that has nothing to do with the fact that the talk does not work. I just want to say that if you want to show solidarity with France, you listen to what France wants in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111140733	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111140743	Thank you. Well, it's amusing to hear Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt and Mr. Jens Rohde has a lively debate, and I look forward to hearing more of that, but I am the new EU rapporteur, so it was a whole new experience for me. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for having taken up this debate. After all, the debate on relations between the European Union and Turkey is extremely topical, it is very important, and I would like to start by stating that what has happened in France is totally unacceptable. It is a disgusting act that an innocent teacher is killed in order to teach his pupils democracy and freedom of expression. Of course, any teacher must be able to show drawings depicting satirical representations of religious figures such as the Prophet Muhammad, if it serves a educational, socially relevant purpose, just as newspapers must be free to print satirical drawings of religious figures, without such threats. Fortunately, the President of France has resigned, and thank God for that, and it is important that we in Europe reject the attempts of Islamists to kidnap our fundamental freedoms, and it is important that we also declare full solidarity with France. Following the terrible events we have witnessed, we have also seen a totally unacceptable and aggressive rhetoric against France and the European Union on the part of the President of Turkey calling for a boycott of French goods and, in other contexts, calling for similar aggressions. This is nothing new. Erdogan's rhetoric has met with condemnation, but unfortunately this larger picture does not seem to change for the time being. In addition to the call for a boycott, we have seen Turkey's activities in connection with the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, the illegal drilling in the eastern Mediterranean and the threat of opening up the border with the European Union to refugee flows. Turkey is simply willing to ignore all international agreements and obligations. In the SF, we have long believed that there would be prospects in a moderate Muslim country in the European Union, particularly in terms of security policy because of the situation in the Middle East, but also to support internal positive developments in Turkey and the situation of minorities in that country, which is why we have actually supported close relations and Turkish accession negotiations with the European Union for many years. However, that support only makes sense, of course, if Turkey meets the Copenhagen criteria on democracy, the safeguarding of fundamental rights and the proper functioning of the legal system, and that only makes sense if there is no arbitrary imprisonment of regime critics and journalists, systematic disregard of basic rights and gross violations of international law and law. There is a time when we have to ask ourselves whether the time has come for us to react. After all, we can see that Turkey is moving so much towards an autocratic and perhaps almost dictatorial regime that it is difficult to reconcile it with the European Union. There is, after all, an ambition for democratic development in Turkey, or there has been in the past, but we see far too many examples of the opposite, and that is why we support the Socialists' proposal for adoption, which calls for a stronger course on the part of the European Union vis-à-vis Turkey.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111141138	Thank you. There is a brief comment. First, it's from sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111141140	I was just wondering when I listened to Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen: this whole conflict, if we are going to call it that, has arisen as a result of Samuel Paty using the Mohammed drawings in his teaching. And I am sure that Mrs Berthelsen, like me and everyone else here, has been met by high school teachers asking what we think they should do. People are struck by the dilemma between fear and duty towards the ideals of freedom. There I would just like to hear what Mrs Berthelsen is replying to the high school teachers in Denmark who are in doubt as to whether they should use the drawings in the teaching.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111141221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111141222	I usually answer that it is up to the high school teachers themselves to decide and that, in my opinion, it is their democratic right to use drawings, among other things. in teaching, and we must have room for this in a society such as the Danish one in the West and, in my opinion, across the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111141242	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt? No. Sir. Jens Rohde? No. Well, then we can thank Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen, and then we can welcome Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111141259	Like everyone else, I understand the reason for this urgent request, namely the killing of the teacher in France who was allegedly committed because, as part of his education on freedom of expression, he had shown some Mohammed drawings. And it can be said that the behaviour of the Erdogan regime in this matter is in itself an argument for the question. First of all, the murder was brilliant beyond all borders, and any civilised human being should condemn it, and the Erdogan regime did not. Secondly, it is about freedom of expression. Both the murder and Erdogan's reaction was an attack on freedom of expression and thus on democracy. Everyone, of course, has the right to refuse to see pictures and drawings that they for one reason or another do not want to look at all have that right but no one has the right to force others to respect the same guidelines. However, I also think, like the Foreign Minister and many others, that there are many other reasons for looking at the European Union's relations with the regime in Turkey. The provocations against Greece and Cyprus have been mentioned, among others. In the case of oil extraction, where Erdogan has actually threatened to bomb oil installations in another NATO country, it is almost a joke. We have seen the systematic escalation of the conflict in Cyprus itself. After all, part of Cyprus is occupied by Turkey and a solution has been negotiated for a long time. In my opinion, there has been blame on both sides for not finding a solution, but now we see how Erdogan is trying to escalate that conflict in the divided Cyprus and it can be extremely dangerous. The military interference in Libya and Nagorno-Karabakh has been mentioned, and I would particularly like to mention support for militant terrorist, Islamist forces as something that has characterised the Erdogan regime. There is systematic support for IS • we know it even from Denmark, where we know that the person who tried to assassinate Lars Hedegaard was extradited to Turkey, after which Turkey handed him over to the Islamic State so that he could sit in Raqqa and make bomb recipes and plan terrorist attacks in Europe, including in Denmark. It's just a very specific example. And the journalists in Turkey who have revealed how the Erdogan regime has transported weapons to the Islamist forces in the IS that we fought against have, of course, been imprisoned or had to go into exile. We have seen a call from Erdogan for attacks on European civilians all over the world, therefore, absolutely a call for terrorism. We have seen, as is also mentioned in the motion for a resolution, the occupation of part of Rojava, where it is not just a matter of occupying part of Rojava; it is also a question of systematic ethnic cleansing. In Afrin there were over 95%. The Kurds today are under 20%. It is ethnic cleansing, and the same ethnic cleansing is being carried out in the stripe that lies up the border with Turkey in northern Rojava, and those that are first purified there are Christians. The Christian communities have been there virtually since Christ's time... they were founded 100 or 200 years later. It is 100,000 people, and they and their villages systematically go after the Islamists, and those who defend them are then the Kurds and Arabs in the SDF, many of whom are Muslims, but they understand the importance of preserving a multicultural society. We have also seen threats of new attacks against those who have fought Islamic State. So there are plenty of reasons why we take this up. That is why we must say no in words. We would like the wording of this proposal for adoption to be stronger, we would like the Customs Union Agreement to be terminated, we would like the accession negotiations to be suspended. We have not achieved that, but we think that the statement that is there is a good step in the right direction, and we would like to thank those who have been involved in negotiating it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111141736	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. There are brief comments, and first it is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111141738	It's not that often I say it, but thank you very much for a very fine speech. At any rate, I think I can agree entirely with all the main points. That's why I'd like to hear what Mr. Søren Søndergaard thinks about what's called Diyanet. It is the case that Erdogan has established an independent ministry under his government, which stands for religious expansionism, where you see mosques as paddehats, also in Denmark • quite a lot gradually • which is thus under direct control from Constantinople and Erdogan's government. Isn't it a problem that we have a regime that I fully agree with the description from Mr. Søren Søndergaard, of the character that in this way has mosques spread across not just Denmark, but all of Europe as we see it in this Diyanet network?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111141834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111141835	It's a huge problem. It's just not a whole new problem. That was also the case during the military dictatorship, which I almost heard Mr. Morten Messerschmidt at a time in his speech praises, where also through the Ministry of Religious Affairs control what is going on around the communities of Western Europe and elsewhere. It's a huge problem. After all, Erdogan is preparing how he can survive, that the majority of the Turkish population has turned against him. We saw this in the elections in Istanbul, where, despite two elections, he was voted down. He's preparing both through that net, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt mentions, but also through the creation of paramilitary groups, the situation in which he can try to retain power, despite the fact that he has lost the majority of the population.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111141929	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111141930	That is quite true, but for us the more worrying it is also an attempt to control the minds of the Turks living in it. So, as a Danish-Turk you will go to a mosque, and then you go to a Turkish mosque, but then there are people who report directly via the embassy, we have seen, or directly to Erdogan's government. Isn't that a problem? And what can we do to push these people who want our social model out of the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111142001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111142002	Yes, it is a huge problem, and that is why we have also raised it with the Minister for Justice, and that is why we have also had the Minister for Justice in consultation several times to discuss how exactly action can be taken against those who not only come to hear something that is incredibly stupid but who also respond to it. And we see that there are people who do. We see how there are people who are inspired by the hate speech that comes and is communicated from Erdogan, for example. attacks other Turks or other Kurds here in Denmark. We also see how we have got a culture among certain Turks to provide information to the Turkish regime on how Danish Turks and Kurds behave, and that is, of course, totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111142047	Thank you. Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111142048	Well, then, I'd like to agree with Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt. You know, you always want to, mr. Shhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh Søren Søndergaard should have doubled his speaking time when we discuss this about Turkey, for Mr. Søren Søndergaard has a very, very great knowledge of what is going on, and it is always interesting to listen to. And Mr. Søren Søndergaard has just made a point about which I also tried to stress that Erdogan is weak. That is why he needs to create situations so that he can mobilise some of his own. It is exactly as we know it from other regimes that are weak so they make sure to establish a picture of an external enemy to mobilise their own forces. That is exactly what we are seeing: Erdogan, who has lost support in large parts of his own population. And that's a good sign, I think. That's why the question is for Mr. Søren Søndergaard: Søren Søndergaard does not see that it can have quite serious consequences for the people who are actually fighting against Erdogan, for example. Is the Customs Union Agreement terminated?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111142205	Thank you. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111142205-2	I think it is important to understand that Turkish society is imbued with nationalism. It was part of Atatürk's basis for establishing Turkey, so I had almost said what outwardly is lost by the Ottoman Empire, must be gained inwardly through Turkish nationalism. Proud is the one who can call himself Turk, the young people, whether they are Armenians or Kurds, or whatever they are, are put to stand and say in schools even today. So there is a violent nationalism. And we just need to be aware that the nationalist propaganda that comes from Erdogan is working, and that is why we do not have an infinite amount of time. I therefore believe that if, for example, we are going to do so. If we take the customs union agreement, we have some examples of how we have actually managed to put a hard fight against Erdogan. Let us take the issue of the aircraft that Erdogan shot down, the Russian aircraft that Turkey shot down and boasted of shooting down. Russia put hard on the hard • and in the course of the zero comma five changed the Erdogan line. Let us take the American priest who was in prison and where nothing was really done, but where Trump then put hard on and where the Turkish Lira fell dramatically. He was released in the course of zero comma five. I think it's possible to fight hard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111142319	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111142320	But who is going to be hard on it? Is it Denmark? Is it the European Union in a common foreign policy action and, if so, with what? After all, we have often discussed sanctions against various countries in this Parliament, and I think I can at least remember that the Enhedslisten has always stood for the view that we should be extremely careful with sanctions against countries when it comes to the economy, because it is often in the regimes to which sanctions are imposed that people pay the bill. What is it that needs to be done, and who will be responsible for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111142404	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111142405	That is absolutely right, and therefore it is not long-term sanctions that can work. The only thing that can work is if some sanctions can be applied in the short term. And there it is, after all, the European Union that has a customs union agreement with Turkey, which is why it is, of course, the European Union that has to react to it and repeal that customs union agreement. I would say that the Erdogan regime will collapse if that customs union agreement is terminated. It can't survive. So it was almost like hearing a joke when he threatened to boycott France and saw which French companies, large French companies, are in Turkey with thousands of employees. So, no, I don't think that's gonna happen. He's very vulnerable. You have to take advantage of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111142448	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard. There are no more brief comments. And we move on to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111142456	Thank you for the floor. I am pleased that we have actually received a joint proposal for adoption, so we as Denmark, as the Parliament, as the government shows our solidarity with France. If it had been last week, it would probably have been two different proposals, and this would have been a pity, because this is about showing our unconditional solidarity with France in the fight against Islam, which is going to fight freedom of expression, and since this was launched, including freedom of religion, with the attack at the église Notre Dame in Nice. But this premise for this question, which DF has put forward, is more about Turkey. There is no doubt that Erdogan has set out and is heading towards becoming such an attacker. Like another Islamic Mughal, he wants to fight the West's Islamophobia, and it is also a good place to continue exporting his Islamism eastwards. I have seen that myself in many places in Central Asia, where it shoots up with polished mosques. There is no doubt that Erdogan continues to go too far. France has also wisely criticised this on several occasions, both here at the latest in the war between Azerbaijan and Armenia and also on a regular basis with Syria and elsewhere, and I sometimes miss the fact that we in Denmark are also critical of Turkey. One is our proposal for adoption, one is our word, one is our support for France, and that is what we are to thank.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111142700	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111142702	I just want to make a comment on that. I commended Mr. Jens Joel and Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen for having arranged for a joint motion for a resolution to be put to the vote, what I actually think is important in the situation. I know that Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll also played an active role, and I forgot to sign for that, so I would like to apologise, but it has been done.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111142730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111142731	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. Yes, we had a discussion in this Chamber about whether we could not put it together, because I thought it was a pity that there was no overall proposal for adoption, so I was glad that it could be balanced, so we also agreed that if there were a French demand for EU sanctions, we would support it, and that was the country around there. Because we must have a constructive but strong dialogue with Turkey. There is no doubt about that. And I don't share that very aggressive approach I'd actually say irresponsible approach, as DF suggests.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111142804	Did this give rise to a further comment? No. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111142807	Now I noticed that Mr. Søren Søndergaard among others. President Trump and others stressed the need for a tough and consistent approach to Turkey to have actually achieved some results. At the same time, I hear Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll say that you should not go too hard-handed because it becomes aggressive and counterproductive. Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll now supports the same proposal for adoption as Mr Ammitzbøll. Søren Søndergaard, it is the defaitist, a little cautious line that Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll's conservatism represents, or is it the a little more firm line, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard represents, as expressed in this proposal for adoption?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111142855	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111142856	We must certainly have a clear and critical vote against Turkey, and we must also show it in action. So it is a clear and cash announcement to Turkey that enough is enough, and it is not just a blow in the air to say that we should no longer discuss their accession to the European Union. It must be clear: there is no prospect of them joining the European Union. All we have to do is to keep in mind that, in relation to Turkey, there are consequences if we do not also take Turkey to us in some way, because where do we push Turkey? It is against China and Russia and other unwanted forces, and then it will be even harder for us in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111142936	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111142937	We must certainly have a clear vote against Turkey. It is very difficult to disagree with that, since it does not mean very much. So, Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll sounds like some branch of Danish Industry or something. This is foreign policy, it is not export policy we are talking about. I would therefore like to hear what Mrs Katrine Katarina Ammitzbøll has to say. Søren Søndergaard in that the very clear and very aggressive line, which among other things. Trump has been leading Erdogan, presumably the only form of diplomacy that has actually worked over the last ten years?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111143012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111143013	One cannot say that this is the way in which a single case is dealt with against a single person that works. It was a specific case that Trump handled in his way. After all, this is not about our foreign policy relations with Turkey; it is not about how we use Turkey when we need them to land with our NATO aircraft, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111143033	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. Then it's the rapporteur for the New Citizens' Party, sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111143041	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the DF for calling this question debate, a question debate on the situation between the EU and Turkey following the killing of a teacher in France who used the Mohammed drawings in his teaching. Since the call, the situation has only worsened with a further terrorist attack in France and the terrorist attack in Austria. Turkey's behaviour in this regard is totally unacceptable, but unfortunately not surprising. President Erdogan repeatedly shows his true face when he stands on the opposite side of today's most important battles: while Europe is fighting against the increasing Islamicism and the omnipresent terrorist threat, he threatens to flood our continent with migrants, and at a time when France is hit by one bloody Islamist terrorist attack after another, Erdogan calls on Muslims throughout the world to boycott French goods. These are just recent examples of how Erdogan works against our peace, freedom and democracy. We have seen Erdogan refer to the French President as needing a mental study because Macron will stand firm on France's values and try to break the security threat in his country. We have also seen Turkey's aggressive behaviour towards Greece when Turkey recently claimed parts of Greece's territorial waters. We have seen Turkey operate aggressively in relation to Syria and most recently in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. It's time to put your foot down. Erdogan's increasingly threatening behaviour must have consequences for Turkey. I note in the proposal for adoption from among others. I welcome the fact that the government has tightened up the rhetoric against Turkey. But new citizens insist: Turkey must never be a member of the European Union; Turkey must not receive pre-accession funds; the process must be stopped now; Turkey must not have any special advantages in the form of an association agreement between the European Union and Turkey. The Danish People's Party will make a proposal for adoption which New Citizens support, but I will leave Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has the pleasure of presenting it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111143302	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111143303	Now the New Citizens' rapporteur used the wording "Turkey should never be a member of the EU'. And never is such a fairly long time frame. Does this mean that, in reality, new citizens are not particularly interested in how Turkey develops? So there can be a democratic revolution in Turkey; there can be a restoration of the separation between religion and the state; there can be democratic rights; there can be respect for minorities, etc. But whatever it is, it doesn't really matter to New Citizens. It is said that Turkey must per year. definition Never is it because it is called Turkey? Or what is the real reason?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111143358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111143359	We would like Turkey to move in a more democratic direction and Erdogan's approach and his regime to be rolled back, but we do not have the imagination to imagine that Turkey will ever be a nation that will fit into the European Union, so we do not believe that Turkey should be a member of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111143419	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111143420	So, does that mean that the word is never so much about developments in Turkey, but more about the limited imagination of New Citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111143432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111143433	Well, then, the rapporteur is allowed to say that my imagination is limited. You can imagine everything, but you also have to have some realism in relation to reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111143446	Thank you. Then there are no more rapporteurs, but first the Minister for Foreign Affairs comes on and then then the rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111143504	Thank you, President. I am pleased that there is broad agreement here in the Folketing between the parties on many points, including, firstly, a condemnation of Turkey's continuing provocations; secondly, a disapproval of Turkey's attempt to inflate religious fire; thirdly, full solidarity with France and, incidentally, other EU partners; and, fourthly, a call to Turkey for deescalation, but also negotiations to show another constructive way. In the government, we have set a very clear line based on these elements, where, of course, we are both absolutely clear about fundamental values, including freedom of expression and of the press, and I have personally communicated this message to the Turkish Foreign Minister and, incidentally, also to the Minister of Trade. It is also clear to us that the Turkey that we know today does not belong in the European Union, and it is the government's clear position that closer cooperation with Turkey requires respect for fundamental values, including freedom of expression, and, in that light, it does not make sense either to carry out the EU's enlargement negotiations with Turkey. However, Denmark and the European Union must continue to cooperate with Turkey in areas where we have important interests at stake and where it benefits the priorities we have. Perhaps I should just like to say a few words to the rapporteur of the Left. Firstly, I am pleased that the Left also supports the common text. I think that's good. I agree with Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll that in these cases where there is so much at stake too, because it is also said that when the government is loaded and burst with France, we are also France's good friend in this matter. Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen very well, and we have also had intense discussions in the Foreign Policy Name which we cannot refer to in public, that is how it is and it is also appreciated by the government that we have, so that we can act strongly and together when our values are trampled underfoot, or when we experience provocations, as we have done on the part of Erdogan, towards Europe, towards France, towards all of us. I would just like to say that, when you are a good friend, I also think it is very important to listen to what the good friend really wants you to do, and that is the starting point of this government. So if a good friend is under attack, as in the case of France, there will be a naturality in that if you are a real and good friend, and if you want to show real solidarity, you will also listen to those who are under attack and what they think is the right thing to do, and therefore I am glad that it is in our proposal for adoption. I have to say, on the other hand, that I would be concerned that we should not listen to our good friend, but act on our own hand and uncoordinated on the Danish side, from which one could get the impression when one listened to Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen. If so, I think that you would be a very bad friend and not show the solidarity that needs to be shown, and that is what needs to be done. I am absolutely convinced that if we are united with France, we are united in Europe in the fight against militant Islamism, because there is a fight out there, both from the inside and from the outside. If we start going our own way, some of them will undermine the values we stand for, our democratic freedoms, which will be made easier. So we have to stand together, and I also understand from Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, that is what the Left agrees with, and I also hope that the Left will support a strict and principles of value which this government has stood on and will not start to break up the consensus which, among other things, has been achieved. is in the EU. For then, unfortunately, I believe that our opponents will have too easy terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111143910	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111143913	Thank you. But, sir. Minister, the fact is that this proposal for adoption, which we expect to adopt in a large, broad majority, is miles away from what the government has said so far in this matter. Then you can try to wrap it up all you want, to listen to a friend and everything else, but the government has never talked before this proposal for adoption about the possibility of EU sanctions... the government has never talked about the need for us to have a reinforced EU course on the part of the government. Then you can start to wrap it up and say that we must now do things coordinated and everything else. If the government had said this from the start, I should be the first to stand out there and say: 'Well, this is not just a good first step, but it is actually a very good step, and it is wonderful that we have a government that not only talks about a value-based foreign policy but also carries out a value-based foreign policy. That's where the difference is, sir. Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111144006	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111144008	Well, I'm glad the Left supports the government's text. Well, that's the thing in a nutshell, and no matter how much mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen is trying to blow himself up and knock on some empty drums, so that's the truth. And as I said, I think it is very good to use Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll's words that this Parliament is united in a sharper and tough line against the provocations we see from Turkey, and that is what this government has done. As I said, I have taken it up with the Turkish Foreign Minister and Minister for Trade, and I also had a discussion with the French Foreign Minister on these matters on Saturday last week, in other words a few days ago, and we are stuck with France, and I also hope that the Left will do so at the end of the day. Because that is what it takes to reject those who want to attack our values, for example. militant Islamists or Heads of State who behave with provocation and irresponsibleness. We must face this together and resist it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111144106	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111144108	Well, it's always nice when a government, we have to say, starts to take credit for the fact that it suddenly has a majority against it. It is always wonderful, and that is why we are of course also pleased that with the majority we had the government moved in the positive direction as it is. However, the facts are still gone, as I said in my first speech, that this is the first time that the Danish Government has talked about the possibility of EU sanctions and that this is the first time that the government has talked about a reinforced EU course. And I'm in the positive corner... I've learned that you have to be at the end of a debate... and that's why I just want to say that it's nice that we've moved the government in that direction. It's just sad that it's only now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111144140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111144142	It is no longer right to repeat two falsehoods once again on the part of the Left. Well, it's getting close to the embarrassment when you keep going to it. I hope that you will stay too good for that. This government has, moreover, stepped up its approach to Turkey, contrary to the previous government, we have stood by France, including in the reactions, and we have also helped to impose sanctions on Turkey, we have put people from Turkey on sanctions lists. So that is simply not correct, and I have to correct the rapporteur and will say that I really hope that the Left will join the large majority, which will take a hard and valuable course towards Turkey so that we can stand together in defending our values in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111144222	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There are no more brief comments. Well, then, sir. Morten Messerschmidt asked to speak to read out a proposal for adoption. Morten Messerschmidt. Do I only have time for that? Don't I have time, 4 minutes? ) Yes, yes. I had understood that it was at least one of the objectives.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111144236	I certainly have to tighten up to remember this time, but with the permission of the President I will start by quoting from the American evergreen: Longer than always is a long, long time and I would like to translate it: longer than always is a very, very long time and of course I do so with an address to Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Because I want to stand up for the fact that Turkey will never, as in longer than always, be members of the European Union, and of course there is a reason for that. What is quite obvious is that Turkey is a Muslim country which is Islamic in all its basic features, and the skin democracy which Kemal Atatürk succeeded in implementing, with all honour and respect after the end of World War I, was in defiance. That is precisely why he needed the army as a guarantee to ensure that the Islamists did not succeed, and three times throughout history, I think it is, in the history before Erdogan, that they tried by violence and power to win their way forward, and the army pushed the Islamists back. This is a picture of a great many Muslim countries, and I dare to say that there is no Muslim country where the problems Turkey has with democracy are not also part of everyday life, and that is why, of course, such a country should not be a member of the European Union. One can almost say this in that it should be the only positive thing about Turkey being able to join the European Union, that it would be the best guarantee that Denmark would look out the next day. I think I could convince a majority of the Danes of that. But that is what we are faced with: why is it that the Muslim countries have so great problems with democracy and with freedoms? Oh, yeah, I wonder if that has anything to do with Islam. For Islam is a perplexed mix of politics and religion, where Muslims believe that everything in the sacred book, which for us Christians is written by people, is very few sequences, among other things. The Ten Commandments, etc., that come directly from our Lord are dictated through the archangel from Allah and to Muhammad, and that gives quite a different relation to the Holy Scriptures, because one believes that it is the Word of God from end to end. It's not. We know that all that is written in the New Testament, which is rendered by Jesus' words, is the people who have written down, a tradition, etc., but here it has given birth to a completely different social model, where you think that if you build on the Koran, you are directly connected with God, and it is clear that if you think that you are directly connected with God, you trump all other arguments. That is why the Muslim countries have so much difficulty with democracy, because it is not based on God's law but on the common sense of people, and that is why, of course, an Islamic country does not belong in such an integrated club as the European Union unfortunately is. We can ally ourselves with Turkey, as we have done in NATO, because we can have common interests, but it also has a short period of time, we can see, with Erdogan, who is currently merely defending his own interests. That means that the EU and Turkey must be separated for such a long time, and that is why we must, of course, end the illusion of having Turkey as a candidate country for the European Union, especially since we can see that it has only brought something negative with it. In the time when Turkey has been recognised as a candidate country in the European Union, Turkey has only behaved increasingly rudely, increasingly aggressively and increasingly Islamist with Erdogan in the lead. That's why it's a bad strategy, and that's why you should cut those tapes. This does not mean that Turkey should not be dealt with. We still need export goods from Turkey, I can imagine there will be both agricultural products and textiles and everything else good that we need to have, but we should not suggest that Turkey becomes a closer ally with Europe than it is now possible for a country which, with Erdogan in the lead, would rather have Islam at its head than freedoms. That is why I have a little post-festum here, and I am sorry about that. Peter Seier Christensen made the following statement: Suggested adoption The Danish Parliament notes that violent Islamism has declared war against the West and its ideals of freedom, and that there is broad support among several Middle Eastern regimes including Turkey. Consequently, the Folketing wishes to see severe sanctions applied against countries and persons supporting violence and terrorism committed against Western targets. V 10).
ParlaMint-DK_20201111144651	This will be part of the further debate. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111144656	That statement was not very specific. I had imagined that there were some of the concrete things that we had discussed. But all right, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, even though it sounds exactly like Erdogan. That's the funny part. The explanation and the interpretation of what conditions should be sounds exactly like Erdogan's, so taken from God, right? It is something that is being used against the secular forces, those who fight against it. But Morten Messerschmidt's advice is that there is nothing to do: you are forever condemned, you who fight for democracy and human rights; forever doomed to subject you to God's Word. Well, it was a sad future, sir. Morten Messerschmidt represents. Moreover, why does Poland have so much problems with democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111144746	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111144747	There are many reasons for this. But it is true that they are not the same as those of Turkey and all other Muslim countries. And yes, I agree that it must be sad to live in a Muslim country. I mean, it could be one of those things. be why there are so many who flee the Muslim countries. If they were so absolutely terrific, effective, democratic, transparent and secular, why on earth do people flee from them? No, Islam is Islam and there Macron is right in crisis, as a way of life, as a form of governance, as an economy, as a political philosophy and as a religion. I think we should agree to that. I can then say it from a professing Christian point of view, because I believe in Jesus Christ as the Son of God, and Mr. Søren Søndergaard can then say it on the basis of his ideological left-wing manifesto. But as long as we agree to say that Islam is not the way forward, then we have come a long way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111144832	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111144834	Well, of course. Of course Islam is not the way. Who, then, claimed that? That is why people are fighting against it, fighting against the version of Islam presented by Erdogan. That is why they are fighting for democracy and human rights. But the hope, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt gives them those who have been tortured, those who have been imprisoned, those who are being beaten down in the streets is that it doesn't matter what they do; they will never be good enough for us. Well, I have to admit, I think it's a strange notion that you give so little hope to people.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111144916	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111144917	But it is clear that if you come from an atheistic point of view, it is probably difficult to understand what religion means to people and to a society. That is probably why the left has also voted for the totally disastrous immigration policy in Denmark. Because it has not been understood that letting in several 100,000 Muslims who believe in the Qur'an, for whom faith actually means something, unlike many on the left, means something to the way they behave in a Danish society, in a Christian society. I understand that the Left has such an atheistic imperialism in its approach to things, because then it is difficult to understand how believers think. This is, of course, the only excusable circumstance that can be thought of in relation to the betrayal of the left in immigration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111145002	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. As I said, the vote on the proposals for adoption will not take place until Thursday 12 November 2020. Then the sitting will be suspended until 8 a.m. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-DK_20201111150003	The sitting is resumed. I should like to inform you that Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, will be answered in writing. 1 to the Minister for Finance by Eva Kjer Hansen, at the request of the author. At the same time, I should like to inform you that the question No. 6-13 and 15-18 to the Minister for Health and the Elderly are withdrawn from today's agenda due to the self-isolation of the Minister. I should also like to inform you that Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) 14 to the Minister for Health and the Elderly, by Alex Vanopslagh, will be removed at the request of the author. I should also like to inform you that Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) 19 and No 20 to the Minister for Transport by Michael Aastrup Jensen is withdrawn at the request of the author. I should also like to inform you that Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) 35 to the Minister for Employment, by Troels Lund Poulsen, will be removed at the request of the author. Finally, I should like to inform you that it is under number Kim Valentin. 37 questions put to the Minister for Culture are withdrawn from the agenda at the request of the author. The question shall be put to written answer. The first question is to the Minister for Finance, Mrs Bjerre, from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111150109	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111150114	Thank you. Is it still the government's view that all state jobs should introduce mandatory vegetarian days into their canteens?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111150130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111150132	No, the government won't interfere with that. We have had a very good dialogue with a number of employee organisations, and on this basis we believe that the best thing is that the individual state workplace, just as it is today, decides how often you want to serve vegetarian food in your canteens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111150151	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111150152	That is a welcome answer, and I understand that the government has listened to the trade unions and has therefore also dropped its proposal to introduce two mandatory vegetarian days and that beef or lamb must be served no more than one day a week. It is therefore coercion that is used in the fight for the climate. It is a very paternal proposal which, from a liberal point of view at least, has to be very much wondered. That is why, as I said, you must also be commended for withdrawing the proposal. But the interesting thing is whether it continues to be government policy and why the government will decide what days the Danes will eat vegetarianly and whether they will still use force in the fight for the climate. We in the Left believe that this is a very dangerous way to go if you do not think that the Danes themselves can make sound choices because then popular support for the climate struggle disappears. So I would like to know whether the government has dropped the proposal because of pressure or whether the government still thinks it is a good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111150250	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111150250-2	Thank you, Mrs Bjerre, for commending the government. I appreciate that. It is true that the government has had a good dialogue with the employees' organisations, and the impression I have when I speak to the employees' organisations is that, like the government, they are very concerned that we are making a green transition and that we, too, from the state, can contribute to it in a very many different ways. I also hope that the Left agrees with that is a good idea. What they then also say is that as far as the canteens are concerned, they think it is reasonable to leave it up to the individual state workplace what you want to serve there, and the government has said that we agree with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111150338	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111150339	That is very good, but the Minister is not answering my question. The government has had a good dialogue with the trade unions and employees about what they think, but the question is what the government thinks, i.e. whether the government still thinks it is a good proposal. I understand that the employees do not think this is a good proposal, but what does the government think?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111150357	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111150358	The government thinks it's wise to listen to the employees. This is also true in this case. There is a common desire between the government and employees that we make a green transformation of Danish society. I also believe that there are a great many employees who appreciate that you can eat vegetarian in our canteens, and there are also many employees who would like to eat meat in our canteens, and we leave it up to each state company what is served in the canteens. That is the position of the government, and I heard it a moment ago. The Left was happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111150432	Thank you. Then there's a co-questioner, and that's Mr. Knox. Karsten Lauritzen, who has 1 minute to ask questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111150438	Thank you. We in the Left would like to praise the government, but quite frankly, after all, we commend the government for having changed policy in an area where something different was previously thought. So the government and the finance minister create a problem and then take a different view, and then you can challenge it, in terms of whether it is quite fair that you get praise for it. But we're certainly glad that the force element is gone on this issue. In other words, the climate and sustainability are important, but there must be free choice in the canteens, and this must be done in dialogue with the employees. You just get that is at least what the question I am going to ask is about an impression from the press conference where the finance minister was present. That is why we have allowed ourselves to call the Minister here today. For the government stood and marketed itself: Now we have to be green symbol politics with coercion some might say. Why is it that the Finance Minister has not had a dialogue with the employee organisations before? So why was the proposal presented, and why was it thought at some point that coercion in the cafeteria was a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111150544	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111150545	What has been the Government's wish, and I hope that the Left shares this view, is that we are helping to achieve our goal of a 70% reduction. in 2030. There are many ways to do that, and what is eaten in the state canteens is a very small piece in a very big puzzle. But I see that the employees are also concerned about this in the state. And there is no desire on the part of the government to force anyone to do anything. On the other hand, there is a desire to contribute to the green development of our society. And you can do that in many different ways. When it comes to the question of state canteen, I would say that we there put forward a proposal and then we had a dialogue afterwards; I spoke to several of the employee representatives. And on that basis I listened to their message that you would like to make a green transition, but you do not think it is something that we should decide from a central point of view, that is, what is out there in the canteens. I take that to heart, and I think that is a sensible way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111150657	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111150658	I fully agree with the Minister for Finance that this is a sensible way forward. It would just have been helpful to everyone, not least to people in defence and elsewhere in government services, who I think are opposed to this obsession, that the government had had that dialogue or had considered it before presenting it to the public. You can just get the idea that the government will now show that we are going to be green, and then you lacked something for a press conference, and then you grabbed into the toolbox and took up a proposal that doesn't make much sense. I do not want to praise the government, but I am glad that the Minister for Finance has now become wiser and of a different attitude. We're all allowed to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111150735	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111150736	Well, I'm gonna take all the rose and enjoy it. I would also like to say that it is generally wise to listen to the employees and to have a dialogue there. I think we can all benefit from that. Then I would also say that for the government at the press conference we held, it was not a question of just having to find something that sounded exciting. We put forward a plan to transform Danish society. The purchase we have from the public sector is both the state, the municipalities and the regions where together we have a purchasing body of approx. 380 billion kr., we can use to buy more green in and also support the companies that make green products, and I think that is something that Denmark has very much pleasure and benefit from.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111150824	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marie Bjerre, on the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111150826	Thank you. Now we understand that the government has withdrawn this proposal. Does this mean that people have become less green? Or I would rather ask in another way: what climate considerations were behind this proposal? Is there a need for something else to be put in place instead of compensating for it? Which CO 2
ParlaMint-DK_20201111150854	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111150855	The government is extremely ambitious when it comes to the green transition. That is why we made agreements on waste before the summer break. We did it in relation to industry, we did it in relation to energy. Right now we are negotiating cars, electric cars. We will be making a proposal for green tax reform in a very short time. So this government is the greenest ever, and I very much hope that the party to which Mrs Bjerre belongs will enter into the work constructively and contribute to achieving the 70-percent objective. You can do that in many ways. What is served by food in state canteens is a very small piece in the big puzzle, and we will leave it up to the individual institution to decide for itself what comes on the lunch table.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111150941	Thank you to the Minister for Finance and to Mrs Bjerre. The question has been answered. The next question is to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply, asked by Mrs Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111151001	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111151004	Can the Minister explain how the Government's desire to assume an international leadership for the green transition is compatible with the fact that for the second year in a row the European Commission can see that Denmark's approach to energy efficiency is inadequate and that Denmark's contribution to the pan-European energy efficiency targets for 2030 is therefore very limited?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111151031	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111151032	With the short time available to me here, I can hardly explain the whole of our international strategy and what is intended to make us world leaders, but it turns out fortunately that some of it works. Yale and Colombia University make such an index of the most sustainable countries in the world every year, and Denmark has fortunately become no. 1. Other such lists also place Denmark much higher than before, so we are well on our way. We're supposed to be the ones others are mirroring in. Then it is clear that when criticism comes from the European Union, it is also on my mind. The reason for this criticism is that it is based on reports from December 2019, that is to say, very soon after we took over power in this country again, and that was before we managed to get a number of the actions that make that criticism look different if we made the same assessment of Denmark today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111151131	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111151132	The Climate Council's wisest expert on buildings has just looked at the climate agreement of June, of which SF is also a part, and it is therefore not his opinion that even with that agreement we are at the forefront of energy efficiency improvement efforts in Europe. That is why we are still taking it very seriously in the SF that when you look at the European Commission's character sheet, there is a basic character for our energy efficiency improvement efforts. So let us agree that the June agreement was good. But does the Minister see that there is reason why we are still making increased energy efficiency requirements here in Denmark? Among other things: Could we, of course, make a demand to regions and municipalities that energy needs to be refurbished annually?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111151220	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111151221	I am not quite sure what kind of expert or statement the expert in question was referring to there. But this is not something that we can discuss or not discuss, i.e. whether it is based on an evaluation of what was applicable policy last year or something that is currently in force policy. It is a fact that it is based on the reporting, which was in 2019, long before we implemented many of the actions we have taken, where the author's party has, fortunately, been involved. Does that mean we're in the finish line? Far from it. We will have to do more on energy efficiency in the future as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111151257	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111151257-2	But the key question for the climate minister is whether the climate minister thinks that it is enough what has been done on energy efficiency improvement so far, on energy renovations, with the climate agreement made in June. Or does the Minister think more needs to be done, for example? That we should do what the European Commission recommends, namely that we use the corona funds for, among other things. to renovate regional and municipal buildings?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111151325	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111151325-2	This comes as part of the negotiations this autumn and also in the negotiations on building in my colleague the Minister for Housing's area. We will be doing things on transport, which will also count positively on the energy efficiency agenda. And, of course, we will be constantly considering the many good proposals that have been made by climate partnerships, many of which are also focusing on energy efficiency and energy efficiency. As the questioner knows, we are also implementing that agreement from June. And many of the agreements that might come out of it will certainly also lead to further action. So no, we're not there yet. It will also be a continuous effort in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111151414	Thank you. Then there is the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111151416	Then I hope that the government will take a sympathetic look at the proposal that the SF has made for the financial negotiations to make energy renovation requirements for the municipalities and regions, because this will undoubtedly make a huge contribution to energy efficiency improvement here in Denmark. I would just like to conclude by asking the Minister to take a look at the point that has been made, among other things, by the honourable Member. The Energy Analysis Institute EA, which says that we can have our bill halved to reach the 70-percent target by reaching maximum energy efficiency efficiency. Then does the Minister also see it as an important piece in our climate change that we are not wasteful with energy, but are saving even more on energy?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111151457	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111151458	Yeah, I sure do. I have sometimes come across the view in the debate that energy efficiency is not so important anymore, since all our energy is soon green. I can only deny that this should be the position of the government, on the contrary. We believe that energy must both be green but also that we must save on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111151517	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply and to Mrs Signe Munk. The next question is to the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities, and that is what Mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111151531	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111151534	Thank you. The question is short and simple. What is the government's position on mink production in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111151538	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111151541	Thank you for the question. It is clear that the government is obviously aware that this is a very serious situation in which the mink industry now finds itself. However, Covid-19 is first and foremost a serious threat to society as a whole, and public health must therefore be given priority. Similarly, we must recognise that the development of the covid-19 situation is a great unknown, and that is a reservation which we must take into account when discussing future prospects, not only for the mink industry but also for many other industries. The government decided on 3 November 2020 that all minks in Denmark should be killed, and this must be done as soon as possible in the interests of public health. As a result, the government has put forward a bill for the implementation of that decision, and the bill on the killing of all Danish minks and temporary bans on keeping mink in 2021 is, of course, intended to stop the spread of covid-19. While this is only a temporary ban, the government is of course aware that the killing of all mink in Denmark will de facto mean the closure of the Danish mink industry, at least for a number of years. On 10 November, following a request from the Danish Food Safety Authority, the Danish Veterinary Consortium issued a risk assessment on the possibility of maintaining mink breeding animals in a health-friendly manner. This risk assessment shows that it is possible to maintain breeding animals for genetics in a health-friendly way so that a new production can be restarted in Denmark at a later stage. The mink must then either be divided into several closed biosafe units or spread on many smaller existing farms with, for example, 500-3,000 animals per year. unit with a good distance between the animals and with adequate control of the infection. Overall, 56,000 breeding animals can then be selected across farms to ensure as wide a genetic base as possible, and that possibility therefore exists.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111151751	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111151752	Thank you. One thing we fully agree with, and that is that public health is most important: people first. Now we are talking about a government decision to abolish mink production in Denmark altogether. But we have also been able to see, as we have seen recently, that the experts do not entirely agree on the reports on this. Some say one, some say another. There are then some who say that there may be a fear, or that there may be a risk. It is a bit in the air, how strong the decision-making basis really is for the government's decision. So could it not indicate that it is such a rather hasty decision that has been reached in the government? Should it not have been more targeted only for the infected herds and then been a little more hesitant from the outset in relation to the non-infected herds? And it might even have been possible to contain the infection in time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111151855	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111151856	I have, of course, noticed during the whole corona crisis that the Left has had different views on mink then they should be put to death, so they should not be put to death. The government's starting point has been quite clear throughout: we listen to the recommendations of the health authorities and the CDC. There is a clear risk assessment that continued mink breeding in Denmark poses a significant risk of infection and also a risk in relation to the effectiveness of our vaccines. It is against this background that a decision has been made to kill all minks in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111151933	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111151934	Now our position has been quite clear all the way. One of the reasons given to us, also by the government at the press conference at the beginning, was that there could be a risk of • one had to understand from the words used • that Denmark could almost become a new epicenter, the word a new Wuhan was used, and that it could have some major consequence and significance also globally. Then we are also told at the meeting here the other day that the pressure of infection is not increasing at the moment. In relation to cluster-5, no new cases have been identified. So there's something that's not entirely connected. Isn't it ultimately such a rather hasty hovsa decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111152012	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111152013	Well it is quite clear that the government is listening to the clear risk assessment that has come from the Statens Serum Institute and the health authorities, that having mink and a large reservoir of mink in Denmark poses a significant risk of infection and endangers public health, in the same way as the possibilities for mutation are with such a large mink population. It is still not clear whether the Left takes that risk seriously. The government certainly does, because in the end, in the decisions we take, we have to do everything we can to stop the infection with corona, even when it comes to infection via mink.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111152055	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111152056	Well, of course we take it very seriously in the Left too. I think we have shown this very, very clearly with our interest in the matter. We have also asked for things to be transferred earlier. It is only now that there is a little movement in it so that we can get some more information. Now there is only a short time left for the last question, but a picture was painted of it, also in terms of risk and uncertainty. And the experts don't agree. And you get a picture that it could be a new Wuhan with great importance for the global health situation. Then we were told the other day that the pressure of infection hadn't increased. Does the Minister not agree that this is not entirely related?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111152133	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111152134	There is a clear risk assessment by government advisors and health authorities and the Statens Serum Institute on the risk of continued mink breeding. That is why, unfortunately, we have had to start the slaughter of mink throughout Denmark, and it is not only because it is a danger to public health in Denmark. It is also mutations that can affect future vaccines, as well as that the international community has a look at Denmark, in terms of how we handle this situation. So it can also harm Danish exports if we do not want to deal with this quite resolutely.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111152211	Thank you. The question has been answered. But we move on to the next question, which is from the same questioner, Mr. Erling Bonnesen. It is also for the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111152221	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111152224	Thank you. Question: Will the government reject proposals from the left-wing parties to close mink production in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111152231	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111152234	The government does not want and has never wanted to close mink production in Denmark. I myself, as trade minister, have travelled around and done export work in favour of Danish mink. I know in what unique quality we produce them in Denmark, and it is sad to see that because of corona we now have to kill mink. This is a situation that hits the mink industry hard, but it has also hit other industries in Denmark. I feel for the mink business in this situation, and it's an invaluable loss we're gonna have here. Therefore, the starting point for the government has never been, nor is it now, that we want to ban or phase out mink production in Denmark. And I can also say, if that is what the author refers to, that the motion for a resolution tabled on 7 October has been withdrawn on 10 November.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111152336	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111152336-2	Thank you. It is gratifying if that proposal has been withdrawn. Then it should have been swept off the table, and then you can follow up from there and say that there is currently a discussion about this too, which is also what the Minister has just explained in a consultation ■ to try to preserve or at least at the moment examine the possibility of preserving a certain population, i.e. a certain number of breeding animals. It is for the time being to preserve the heritage, and then we can say that the possibility of it may be open sometime in the future. Is this something that the Social Democrats want, in other words, that a mink production should be built up in the longer term? This is not something you can do overnight. It's gonna take years. But is it the view that it should actually be the springboard and set aside to get started again, even if it would be extremely hard?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111152426	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111152427	Well, there is no doubt that it is also in this area that we in the government lean on the assessments of health authorities, the Statens Serum Instituts. And now we have an assessment that suggests that some genetic material can be preserved, i.e. a limited number of living minks in Denmark, so that at some point you can put mink in the world when you can do it again. It depends on how the corona develops, when it may again be possible. That is also where we want to listen to the health authorities. But the opportunity is there, and the government supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111152506	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111152507	But when the government says it is possible to do so and that, based on the reports you are getting now, it will be safe from health and that it is the government's position that it is after all the government that has shut down the industry, as we have seen so far, is it a project that the government will enter into? And would it be said that given that the government has removed the industry as it is now, could it be good to give them this little opportunity? Is this something that the government is going to go into so that there could be, if I may say so, a state intervention in securing this heritage? It's not something that just comes in like that with a snap with your fingers. Or is it something you just wipe off on the profession yourself?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111152545	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111152546	It is the corona that unfortunately has closed down the mink business in Denmark at least in the foreseeable future and that is regrettable. The government is completely open to the possibility of preserving genetic material in a way that I described earlier, so that mink production can be taken up again in Denmark at some point. But minkavl in Denmark is a private task; it is not a state task.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111152618	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111152619	In other words, the government says: Yes, you can. But there will of course be significant costs to it, but it is not something that the government will participate in. So that is what they say: okay, what is the real reason for the position? It seems to be quite a bit. But do I hear the Minister say, and this should be the question here, that they are allowed to do so, but that the government refuses to help with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111152641	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111152641-2	I note that the health authorities are opening up the possibility and believe that it is also healthy in relation to corona infection that a small number of animals are kept in Denmark, so that at some point there is genetic material to resume mink breeding. It is then an opportunity that the profession has. But I hope I don't have to understand the fact that sir... Erling Bonnesen now as a good liberal believes that it is the state that is about to be a mink grower in Denmark. I think that's a bad idea. I don't think the state will be very good at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111152716	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen and the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities. Then there are a large number of questions that have been removed from the agenda, and that is why the next question to the Minister for Children and Education, and that is what Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. That is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène. S 107.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111152741	Please read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111152743	Thank you, President. Does the Minister intend to provide free democratic education in Danish primary and secondary schools, and what measures will the Minister take to protect teachers and pupils' education on freedom of speech, in view of the fact that a Danish teacher has been threatened with silence after teaching the case of the Mohammed drawings?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111152815	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111152821	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. Both primary and secondary schools are to prepare students to live in a society of freedom and popular rule. Here, in the opinion of the government, education about freedom of expression is a natural element. But it is also crucial that our school system works in such a way that it is the individual school itself that decides how they organise the teaching, and thus what teaching materials are used in the teaching. This practice is based on a long tradition in Denmark, with which we, on the part of the government, do not wish to break. As Minister for Children and Education, I have great confidence and expect teachers and management to use their critical sense and to strike the right balance in the choice of textbooks and other teaching materials. But when it comes to threats to teachers, I cannot and will not accept that teachers meet with threats when they do their job. And as Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen knows very well that it is a police task to protect the country's teachers. What I have been informed is that the government, including the Minister of Justice, is currently looking at how we can tighten up the penalties for threats to prevent others from expressing themselves. The police mission itself is over with the Ministry of Justice, but I would like to say that freedom of expression is a fundamental value in Danish society, and democracy is simply about being able to express disagreements freely without the use of violence and power. It is necessary to unite, also across religions and political beliefs, in the fight for freedom of expression. However, the police task, which is to protect teachers and also the rest of the citizens from threats and from violence, is, of course, crucial to having the security that you as a citizen must have in relation to that freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111153022	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111153023	Well, it's excellent to involve the police and the Ministry of Justice, but the minister can do something himself. After all, I asked about measures that the Minister would like to take. In the past, a study has been carried out on violence against teachers. It was the former Minister of Education Merete Riisager who put it in the lake, and it was quite surprising to some that there was so much violence in schools against teachers of pupils. It would therefore be appropriate for the Minister to initiate a study among Danish primary and secondary school teachers, which simply identifies the extent of the problems which may be involved in teaching democratic principles in Denmark and, in particular, in terms of freedom of expression, which is, after all, sometimes under pressure, especially when it becomes a little controversial. So could the Minister not take the lead in conducting such an investigation? She can do that pretty quickly: the tools are there, the device is there. I am sure there are many teachers who would feel heard if the problem were mapped out. Because when we have something factual to relate to, we can do something.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111153142	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111153144	Well, I must admit that I think we are moving incredibly far away from what the question is really about, but let us finally discuss the situation regarding the working environment of teachers in the Danish primary school. This also applies to social educators working in the country's settlements and to other groups of workers who, unfortunately, have faced increasing violence. I think it is a little far away from the issue, but I am open to discussing how we are going about it. I have seen some of the things my predecessor has been working on and, of course, I am willing to discuss it properly in connection with our next public school conciliation meeting • how we can address the issue of violence against teachers in general in the country's primary schools. It's an everyday thing, you might say. But what the issue here has been about has been the kind of fundamentalist violence that has been in connection with the demonstration of the Mohammed drawings in France, and that is what I have prepared for this. However, I would actually like to give an undertaking that at the next conciliation meeting we will be able to discuss how we can proceed with the general discussion on violence against teachers.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111153248	We have reached that point in the question round, where there are only 1⁄2 minutes both to ask the question and to answer it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111153253	Thank you. It is probably not that far from the question, because I asked for measures, and I am glad that the Minister will take it up at the conciliation meeting, because that is quite crucial. Another thing that the Minister could do was look at the order order. In other words, will the Minister do something to ensure that a student who threatens a teacher also feels the consequences? That is what the order is for; it could be tightened up there. So, in addition to an investigation that the Minister has promised us to discuss, will the Minister also look at the order order?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111153327	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111153328	I would like to say again that we are moving quite far away from the issue. If there are threats to a teacher's life, I would recommend that, instead of looking at the order order, we look to the police, because there we are talking in a serious way which is considerably greater than a public school order can live up to. This does not alter the fact that there are issues of violence against teachers in general which have been increasing in recent years. I believe that we can certainly discuss this at the next conciliation meeting, and I would like to go openly to what various tools are needed. I would like to stress that if you are threatened with your life because of your education, then it is the police that you have to reach and proper protection through the police. An order simply cannot be enough to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111153411	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111153411-2	Again, I would like to say that this is part of the question, namely what measures should be taken and that is what I am actually asking about. The next question I would like to ask is whether the teachers could also be helped. After all, they've been asking for support from the state. You could, for example. Get the Muhammed drawings in the cannon list so that it is not each teacher who is responsible, but that it is the state, government and parliament that says: This is so important, it must be part of the cannon, therefore you must also teach what we take responsibility from you and take it on us instead of the minister transferring responsibility. Would that be an option?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111153445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111153445-2	I mean, I'm just a target for the Danish primary school and for the Danish primary school tradition. And as far as the Danish primary school is concerned, it is the teachers and it is the schools that assess which teaching material is to be used in the teaching. So I think it is perfectly natural to teach freedom of speech, but what material is used as a basis for it is not a tradition for us to interfere in political matters. It would be a break with a very long tradition in the Danish primary school, and the government does not think this is appropriate. So the support that needs to be given is, of course, in relation to the fact that if you are exposed to threats as a teacher, you need the protection that you need to be able to go safely to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111153523	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. Then this question has been answered. The next question is also to the Minister for Children and Education and has been asked by Mr. Jacob Mark. Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111153535	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111153537	Thank you for that: how does the Minister ensure that all day care institutions and schools receive money to cover the extraordinary costs of covid-19-related actions such as: cleaning and more staff, as the government has promised, so that the increased level of cleaning can be maintained without day-care institutions and schools having to implement savings or deteriorations on other points?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111153601	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111153601-2	This has been an issue which, in fact, has taken a great deal of interest to me, which is why I am actually glad that it is being dragged down here in the Chamber. Because it is absolutely relevant to ensure that the funds for cleaning that have been dropped are actually used out there, because that is what has been the idea of the whole thing. Especially now, one can say where there is a seasonal change along the way, and where we have also seen an increase in the pressure of infection, there is no doubt that once that money has been dropped off, it is also important that they are spent. And cleaning is essential in order to keep the spread of infection in check, and therefore there must continue to be a focus on cleaning efforts. It must not lead to savings or deterioration in other areas, that this effort must be met, because in the government we have made it very clear, with the agreement on action on the economy of the municipalities in the light of corona from 26 March 2020, that we want to ensure that the necessary steps are taken and that the necessary resources are available to finance the interventions in 2020 in relation to the covid-19. So it's completely jammed and nailproof that's how it is. I have heard that in some places there is such a monkey throwing about whether the money has now been dropped off or whether it has not been dropped off and whether it is the municipality, or it is the state, or where it is. Therefore, it has been crucial for me to send out a letter together with the chairman of the KL Children's and Education Committee, so that that monkey throwing like could no longer take place. The money has been dropped off, the letter has been sent out, and that means that, in relation to the issue of sending the monkey back and forth, a letter has been sent out to all municipalities, all day-to-day offers and all primary schools, with reminders of the current guidelines and the provision of funds to compensate for the costs associated with additional cleaning and hygiene measures. Then I would say that we have a coronahotline in the Ministry of Children and Education, then there should be some cases where you have the impression that it is not the case that there is compensation, I would strongly recommend that you take the bone and call so that we can clarify the issues that are there. Because when all these things are said and those letters have been sent out, we should also remember that these are new rules and new rules and new standards. So if there are any gaps in the map, we would be delighted to be helpful in getting it right, so that we do not have problems with cleaning around.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111153816	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111153817	On the one hand, the problem is that the money for the municipalities does not relate to the costs incurred by the municipalities, and on the other hand, some of them end up in the municipal funds. The municipality of Vesthimmerland has, for example: expenditure of 20 million; kr. for Corona measures and they have received compensation of 8 million. kr. Such examples can be found, and this makes it difficult in the municipalities, and it certainly makes it necessary that in here, from Christiansborg, if you want the institutions not to be the losers, check and make sure that the money reaches all the way to the institutions and does not end up in the municipal treasury. They are, for example. in the municipality of Holstebro. Here the institutions have declared that they have incurred expenses of 6 million. kr., and they've got 2 million. kr. In the City of Viborg, the institutions have not seen the shadow of the money. This is how I can continue to mention municipalities, because there are major problems with the institutions not seeing that they are covering the costs they have incurred, and it will end up with the need to dismiss educators, that there is less time with the children and the educators. Now a letter has been sent out, and I think that is a good thing, and I would like to sign for that. But how will the Minister check that the money is actually being spent? I'm not the type to control everything in this world, but I think there's a need to make sure the money reaches the kids. And, of course, we check when it comes to the minimum standards money. So we ask: Has the money been spent on the children? Can we not also check here that the money earmarked for cleaning is actually spent on cleaning?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111153939	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111153940	I certainly do not want to control everything around the world either, but I would actually like it to be cleaned up. That is why I would actually like to call on the rapporteur to pass on the concrete examples that the rapporteur has both heard and heard about in the future. We had examples of two municipalities where mouthtips were not made available to the students in the way they are obliged to, if a student cannot afford it. We took that up right away and solved it right away. So here in the coronatide it is a really good idea to approach what is quite concrete and low-practical: what kind of municipalities are the problems, what kind of day institutions? For then we can do what the Ministry can to follow up on whether the problems are resolved and to help ensure that the money is actually put to work in the way they should.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111154023	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111154024	I'll do that, and I'd like to sign for it. This is something quite specific that we can go home to the institutions and say. But there is also a problem after 10 May. The agreement made by the government with the municipalities applies, as do the measures made before 10 May, but there is still a need for more cleaning, which is still needed for preventive measures. That is the task for the institutions themselves right now; no money has been given for it. And in North Jutland there are stricter guidelines, there must be groups of two to three children, and there are additional requirements for cleaning and despriting. There's no money set aside for it either. When will an announcement be made that additional money is needed to cover the costs of cleaning now?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111154102	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111154102-2	Well, the requirements that apply to cleaning at day care institutions and schools throughout the country ensure that it is safe to send children to day care and school. There are no separate and other cleaning requirements in North Jutland. There are some other guidelines that apply, and there will be a bill on which there will be a debate. However, as far as the guidelines for cleaning are concerned, they are actually the same that apply throughout the country. And it is essential that those rules are observed, it is self-evident, otherwise it is not meaningful. Therefore, it is also extremely important for me that there is indeed going to be follow-up to those places where this is not the case. That is why it is important for the concrete examples to be put on the table so that we can address them. For some of the places we have been able to reach, it has turned out that it was an area manager who had not quite understood how the money was to be spent. Subsequently, that problem has been resolved. So many times it's something low-practical where we have to give it a boost. We are happy to contribute to that, so just bring the specific cases, then we will proceed with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111154156	Thank you. Then there's the last follow-up question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111154158	Yeah, 'cause the spread of infection is bad now, too. Cleaning now certainly makes sense, and fortunately the institutions are actually spending a lot of time cleaning right now and preventing the spread of infection. The problem is that there has not been an announcement from the government that you want to cover that expenditure. You just wrote that you'll take it at a later date. The municipalities of Køge, Holbæk, Syddjurs, Norddjurs and Nyborg end up with the bill for all the extra cleaning they are doing right now. Or will the government say that they will, of course, cover that, because preventive measures are needed now, as was the spring?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111154236	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111154237	Well the government's policy is perfectly clear: the state will compensate the municipalities for the additional costs associated with corona by 2020. It's so ready, the message is. And when I stand and read it, it's because it comes directly from the Treasury, whose box I don't have the keys directly to. That is why it is important for me to say that this report is of course the Ministry of Finance. There are plenty of municipalities that have made this work, and therefore it is my best belief that with the extra pressure we can put in, we must also be able to make it work in the last municipalities. So it's just to say that that money has been set off, that money has to be found where it is not, we simply need to know it so that we can do something about it. Jacob Mark That was a nice announcement).
ParlaMint-DK_20201111154318	Thank you. The question has been answered. We will continue with the Minister for Children and Education, and the next question is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111154333	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111154336	Thank you. The national tests for the 2019/2020 school year show once again that the pupils in the primary school have deteriorated both in reading and in arithmetic, does the Minister not believe that the time has come for us to recognise that the reforms of the primary school have failed and that it is time to rethink how the primary school is run?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111154402	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111154403	I always think that there is such a slightly weird pseudo-discussion about the reforms, because they range incredibly wide. So, if I may answer the question of whether we should do something about the problem of not reading and calculating properly, I would say that the answer is yes. Are there sufficient tools in the toolbox to do so on the current basis? There's the answer no. That is why I just want to say that I think we should go quite hard on this particular issue, and that means that the objectives of the reforms have not been met if I am to go back to that track. I do not think that is satisfactory, and that is why I believe that we should change those points where we believe that we can improve this situation. I think it is quite unacceptable that so many pupils go through their primary school hours without taking in the literacy skills needed to be able to cope with our society. That's not gonna work. Now we have to see how corona develops, but one of the things we have to look at is the evaluation and evaluation system. I believe that if we are to point out one point where it has failed completely, it is that it has focused on measuring and weighing, but not on how we follow up. There are far too many children, for example. suffer from dyslexia, which means that in the group of weak readers there are 7-8 per cent. of children and adolescents with dyslexia in their luggage. Why on earth have we not dealt with this problem better? Why is it that one still has schools where mathematics teachers, German teachers and physics teachers have no idea how to deal with teaching children with dyslexia? It's just not gonna work. Of course, teachers need the help they have been screaming for years. There I think we have focused too much on the tests themselves and too little on what should happen when we have the results of the tests. Year after year we find just a little headless that we now have the results again and that they look like that, but there is no obligation to each other, to the municipalities, to the schools or to the teachers to say that this group of pupils is the one to look at and that they have to be lifted. I simply believe that we have taken the politically wrong approach in relation to what we are measuring, so to speak. It might be that we should measure a little by how good we are at lifting those at the bottom, and we have not done that well enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111154608	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111154609	I'm glad to hear this answer. But the problem is very deep, because what has been running Danish education policy since 1996 is the Nordlæ study, which came there and showed that there were too many weak readers. Then changing governments have been saying for 24 years that we need to solve this problem. But we haven't solved it yet. That is also what set the reform in 2013-14 in motion. Does that mean that we should not make patch solutions now? In other words, we are now taking a blank piece of paper and then we are going to start a real reform work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111154702	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111154703	Well, the thing about what it means is always something funny. After so many years of bourgeois governments, the word reform is something that gets everyone's hair up on my head, because every time the word reform has been said under a bourgeois government, there have been cuts. So I would say that if we are to stick to what we want to change, it is very few years since it has been changed, so that everyone, for example. is entitled to a dyslexia test. Why has it not been done before? We now have twice the first year I was Minister and now, in the second year, presented dyslexic packages and had new actions carried out in this area. I very much hope that, in the context of an evaluation and evaluation system, we will be able to go into this, because if we care about people learning to read, then it might be a good idea for us to start where people have difficulties, which we should know about much earlier. 7-8 per cent. is a big part of a vintage.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111154750	Thank you. I'll make sure the questioner can get a glass of water.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111154755	Thank you so much. I think we should be careful that there is no controversy in this matter. Because when I say that this problem has been going on for 24 years, it is also to say that there are a great many governments, both led by the Socialists and by the bourgeois parties, who have recognised this problem and who have tried to do something and have gone across the middle to do something. But it just hasn't really helped. Of course, it is good that something is being done for example. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-DK_20201111154850	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111154851	I'm not denying that. I also believe that there are too many boys who sit and are bored in too much of the teaching we offer. It just doesn't work; it's not a good starting point for learning that you get bored through a whole school day. In other words, I believe that there are relatively major challenges for our primary school, and therefore we must take a rather thorough approach to the changes that need to be made. So it's really just a promise. It was just a reform I'm hitting on because it has an incredibly negative reverberation. So we can do something about it; it's a few years that the tests on dyslexia have been there, and we've actually moved from 5-6 per cent to 7 out of 8, where we catch it even when they're in 3rd grade. So if we want to, we can actually move it, and that just means that I think we should take the tool out of the toolbox that we have seen working, among other things. in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111154936	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111154937	So what we can expect is that negotiations will be called for at some point on the subject of words, and we will not be arguing about words, but we will therefore have a very thorough repair, some very thorough measures, to reverse this very boring trend?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111155001	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111155002	Yeah, I think we should eat the elephant bite-bye, it's usually a good idea. However, I also believe that there should be changes in elephant size in the area of primary school. It also has teachers, parents, students and managers in demand for years, and I think we should respond to that. After all, we had a spring that was in many ways really hard for the primary school, and it is also still gone, especially in North Jutland at the moment, in relation to corona. And there we get an evaluation of some of the actual on the backs of a difficult situation of exciting teaching forms that crystallized. A great deal of this can actually be done within the primary school law, but that is just not what is the daily practice for all sorts of reasons and we will have an evaluation of that which is completed here in December or January, and we also have a few major discussions here in the Parliamentary Chamber about exactly a reform of primary school. On the back of that, of course, we will take the initiative of trying to go to what it is like to get to where we all really wanted to go at the time of the reform, namely that more people leave school and can read and count. Then I also think we owe it to the boys that they have actually been motivated along the way to learn more when they have finished primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111155106	Thank you to the Minister for Children and Education. The question has been answered, we will continue with the same question, but with a new minister, so that is Mr. Henrik Dahl, who is asked questions about the Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111155119	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111155122	When the Ministry of Education and Research states in its own report that women and men at the Danish universities have 33 per cent. more chance of getting a professorship than men and 80%. Why does the Minister consider it fair to discriminate against male researchers through the Inge Lehmann programme?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111155144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111155145	Thank you. There is a deficit of women in the Danish research world. The talent barometer 2019 shows that women are under-represented in the research population at all levels. For every female researcher there are almost two male, and only almost one in four professor in Denmark is a woman. Women also account for a smaller proportion of new recruitments and applications for both open and open positions. The success rate, to which the honourable Member refers, cannot only be seen as an expression of equality between men and women. For example: men generally seek more positions so that it lowers their success rate, while women seek fewer jobs and therefore seem to have a higher success rate than men. The higher rate of success may just as well be an expression of the fact that there are simply too few women looking for the job vacancies. If we delve a little further into the figures than the questioner has done here, we can see that only half of the posts that were posted between 2016 and 2018 had qualified candidates of both sexes. The second half of the applications therefore had only qualified candidates of one sex. Of these, just over 70% are filled. of men and the remaining 30%. with women. The proportion of women employed, with both qualified male and female candidates, was 44 per cent. between 2016 and 2018, i.e. less than half. This should be seen in the light of the fact that at all levels of employment there were several qualified male applicants. In addition, about a quarter of the posts are filled without notice. These posts also employ a little more men than women. As I see it, it is indisputable that we have a huge gender challenge in Danish research, and we need talents, regardless of gender, to get into play. With the lack of women we see among researchers, we miss out on the knowledge and perspectives that women researchers will be able to give to Danish research. Developments are going the right way, but too slow, and that's why we need action like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111155354	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111155355	But there is, after all, a wide range of job categories where there is no fifty-fifty ratio of men and women. I can mention the long-distance driver, I can mention the renovation work, I can mention the carpenter's trade. I have to ask this more in principle: how did the Minister and the government come to the conclusion that there should be a ratio of 50-50 and that this is the optimum and correct figure, simply because overall it is the distribution of men and women in society? What is the deeper reason why exactly this 50-50 distribution should be recovered in the university field when it is not common in society?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111155446	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111155446-2	As Minister for Research, I can see what research is doing to society. It shapes our everyday lives, forms the solutions we use and forms the new ideas. But that is also what makes us actually developing as a society. And that is so crucial, especially in a time of green transition and digitalisation that goes out there: we need to get all talents into play. And right now we can see that there are more women than men who are graduate students, that there are more women than men who are PhDs, but it is under one in four who are professors. Some of the places in these systems are stagnating from assistant professor. There is a problem, and if, as a society, we want all the talents in play, something needs to be done here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111155528	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111155528-2	The minister does not answer my real question: where does the idea that the right distribution is 50-50 in this particular area come from? But I would also like to take this opportunity now that I have the floor to say that it is, of course, well documented where things go wrong. It's gonna go wrong at PhD level. This is where women fall from, and universities must, of course, be better at making career planning. I fully agree with that. But where does the idea of fifty-fifty really come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111155602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111155603	I am striving for a greater degree of equality. I aim to ensure that we have all the talents at play. And as the questioner really says, there are plenty of PhD talents out there of both sexes, and we lose something on the floor as a community, as a population, when we don't get those talents to go all the way. That is why I agree that it is a task on the ground to support the talents that exist, and we want to stay in these subjects. But it is also a political responsibility. If we can see that we are losing talent, that there is something we do not get in the game overall and at research level, then of course we have to do something political.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111155642	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111155644	I'm a patient man, so I'll try again. If we look at the whole of society, is there not a 50-50 distribution, will the government also come up with some initiatives for all the women long-distance drivers who are lost to society, i.e. the talent mass of female long-distance drivers and female refuse collection workers, for which society is being cheated, when it is evident that there are just as many talents in all subjects in the minister's field?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111155713	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111155713-2	This is an overarching consideration. This is a question of how we as a society are shaped by research, we are driven forward by research and that our companies live on research. That's why we need to get all the talents into play. We can see that today that we do not get, and that is why initiatives like this are needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111155733	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. We shall continue with the same minister, the Minister for Education and Research, and this time the questioner is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, and there is a questioner who is Mr Tørnæs. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111155746	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111155748	Thank you. Does the Minister agree that the government has not done anything to stem the rise in expenditure on migrant workers, despite the fact that several parties in the federation have expressly called for action by the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111155808	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111155809	No, I do not agree with that, but as part of this answer I would very much like to recognise the previous government and therefore my wise predecessors for due diligence, as several times the number of places in English-language education has been reduced in this context. That is why, as a new government, we decided to allow the reductions that had been decided to take effect, and that is why they still exist. This seemed to us to be the sensible approach, all the time that the VLAK government's recent limitation on university and diploma engineering training had only entered into force on the summer of our government, namely the summer of 2019. And that means that the impact on the Su expenditure would start to appear in the 2019 inventory, and I have just presented that statement to the Su conciliation circle. In addition, we introduced the reinforced criterion of relevance to the prequalification of new English-language courses, which the VLAK government had previously proposed but failed to introduce itself. Now I have made a forecast for the development of su for EU students in the coming years, which clearly shows that these actions cannot stand alone, that they cannot be enough. Su-expenditure on migrant workers is expected to continue to rise due to changes in the behaviour of this group of students. So no: I do not agree that the government has done nothing to stem developments. However, I fully agree that the new forecast shows that more needs to be done in the coming years in order to limit the increase in expenditure in order to meet the su-conciliation. The government's proposal to the board of directors is that new, quite extensive reductions should be made in the admission of international students if we are to reduce the cost of su. I think it is important that we realise that reductions, to the extent we are talking about here, could at the same time have an impact on the ability of Danish companies to employ skilled labour and on the economy and study environment in the educational institutions concerned, especially in small places outside the major study cities. And that is why it is not something that we should rush into without analysing and discussing it. I think we owe it to both the institutions and the customers to make a solution that is well thought out and where we know the consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111160026	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111160027	Thank you very much for your answer. After all, it was almost one long list of what the previous government has done to live up to the su agreement that we jointly concluded back in 2013. So the answer must be understood as follows: yes, I agree that the government has done nothing. And then, as I said, there was a list of what has been done in the past. However, the Minister should not be allowed to escape that easily, because as the reply also showed, a statement has just been made to the Danish Parliament which shows that the agreement we made in 2013 was exceeded by no less than 75 million. kr. Last year. And the government sits with its hands in its lap and refers to what the previous government has done, despite the fact that the government is obliged to make proposals for defence initiatives on how we can live up to and respect the agreement that we reached back in 2013. On top of the hat, the Minister has made a forecast which shows that when we reach 2023, it is no longer 75 million. kr., the deal is over, no, it's actually more than 200 million. kr., the deal is exceeded with. And what's going on? Yes, the minister is standing here referring to actions taken by the previous government, without even making a single one! Now's the chance, Minister. Just bring it to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111160213	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111160214	Thank you. In fact, it is my clear view that we owe it to us to discuss this at the conciliation table, and that is why I have invited, among other things. The questioner has both last week and in the coming week to take the very discussion where possible scenarios have also been put in, which will be violent out there if that is what we are adopting. And I actually think we owe this to that table, instead of standing here listing various options which have not been politically adopted and which may have very major consequences out there. It's not something you can do with your head. I think we should respect the fact that this is about people and education out there. I would very much like to discuss this together, and that is why I have invited you to a meeting, both last week and in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111160253	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111160254	However, I have not yet heard the Minister come up with a single concrete proposal as to what the government will do to respect the compromise we reached back in 2013. In fact, I think that the Minister should take this opportunity to mention what is being considered and what is being seen as a solution to the situation in which we have ended up, where we are spending far too much resources on migrant workers in relation to what the Folketing has decided to use. I simply think it is a scandal, indeed one could actually use the word'scandalous', that the Minister is just sitting with his hands in his lap and thinking: it is all going well, I am referring to and commending the previous government. Yes, we took the right initiatives. But that has not proved sufficient, and that is why it calls for initiatives on the part of the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111160353	Scandal is not a foreign word in this Chamber. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111160356	Thank you. That is precisely why the questioner already has an invitation to that particular debate on his calendar. I'm looking forward to it. I think this is a serious matter. I share the concern that the ceiling is being exceeded and that the forecast says that it will go further in the next few years. That is why we must act. I think we should discuss this together when we sit around the negotiating table. That's why the meeting is on the calendar.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111160424	Then we'll give the floor to the co-questioner, sir. Morten Dahlin from the Left, Danish Liberal Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111160426	My question is very brief: does the Minister not think that the Minister owes the Danish taxpayers who have worked hard and paid taxes and whose tax dollars are now going to something that the Folketing has decided not to go to, an answer to what the Minister will do to ensure that their tax dollars are properly spent?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111160447	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111160449	I think, in fact, that I owe it primarily to the citizens who the questioner is talking about to find solutions, and that is why I think it belongs at a negotiating table. Negotiations have been convened, a process has been initiated where there are some scenarios on the table and where we will be discussing solutions. It is a very serious task, and that is why I do not intend to sit around and talk about it and then we could do it, and then we could do it without discussing it politically. Because it is with great consequences for the education programmes and the citizens we are talking about and the students who are out there, and I actually have quite a lot of respect for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111160525	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111160526	But what solutions could the Minister envisage? The Minister acknowledges that the Minister owes taxpayers' solutions. What are the solutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111160536	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111160537	The questioner's party may not exactly be the questioner, but the author's party is in any case already in a series of meetings now invited to exactly the discussion where we present the figures first and foremost as we see them. We can see that there is a change in behaviour, which means that we must also deal politically with a new scenario. And, of course, there is also a discussion about what we do about it. I do not think anyone imagines that it is easy solutions that lie ahead of us. But these are necessary solutions, which is why it is also a meeting that I expect a great deal of and where, of course, we are going to discuss this together, and I am actually going to do so. That's why the meeting's already on the calendar.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111160616	We shall now proceed to the main questioner, Mrs Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111160617	I think it is really, really a pity that the Minister will not reveal what it is actually intended to introduce defence initiatives, or at least to discuss it with the parties of the Folketing. The possibility is now there; we have actually moved on several laps. And yes, it is true that we have recently received an inventory and also a forecast of what the figures look like, and that might lead me to ask the Minister: what does the Minister himself think is the reasonable amount of taxpayers' money to spend on migrant workers?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111160653	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111160655	Well for me, it is important that there is a balance in it: that on the one hand we have international study environments where both Danish students can travel and foreign students can come here, and where there is also the value in it for our companies afterwards, but on the other hand we do not suddenly become those who have to lift the educational obligation for the rest of the European Community. I am a great supporter of the European Community, but I am also very much in favour of being part of that community without having to commit to paying the bill for the rest of the European Union. The balance is, of course, the one we have tried to strike with this conciliation, this agreement we have with each other back in 2013, and that is why I am very concerned about it, and it is very important to the government that we enforce the agreement and guard what we have agreed with each other. So that, of course, is my guide.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111160745	We shall now proceed to the next question, namely No. 26, which is also for the Minister of Education and Research, and the authors are the same team as for Question No 26. 25.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111160754	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111160755	What specific action does the Minister intend to take to comply with the 2013 Su Agreement, which set a ceiling on the cost of su for migrant workers?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111160806	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111160807	The short answer is that we will take more initiatives. First of all, I have started work on examining what opportunities we have for restricting the access of migrant workers to Danish social security within the framework of EU law. I would also like to look at the possibilities we have of influencing that particular framework. I know that this is something that changing governments have looked at in the past and that it has been blind trails so far, but I still think it is worth going back to the discussions and the potential opportunities that could lie there. Secondly, we must find the best way of introducing further reductions in the number of places in English-language education. It is not particularly attractive, but it is the tool or action we have. The decisions taken by previous ministers also bear this out, and that is why we in the government are prepared to take the necessary steps to comply with the compromise. I have not yet adopted the specific model, because as you know, we are currently discussing it in the Su-Chief Group. We need to think carefully about how we do this in the most appropriate way, and we need to be aware of what derived effects the different approaches can have. Unfortunately, there are no easy solutions. I myself pay particular attention to the impact that reductions can have on our supply of education outside the major cities and on the ability of our companies to employ skilled labour. I know this is a point of attention which the author's party also shares. At a meeting of the Committee on Budgets last Tuesday, I informed the circle of the latest forecast of the development of expenditure on sugar and of the roads which I think we can go. And I've invited the circle to a new meeting again on November 18th. Su-conciliation has a joint responsibility to comply with the su-conciliation. I hope that together we can find an appropriate and sustainable solution. I think we owe this to our educational institutions and the employees of the training programmes concerned. I would therefore like to hear, frankly, what the views of the conciliation parties generally are before we proceed with the concrete models, and I look forward to hearing that from the Left as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161004	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161005	There were not much answers to the question here either. There was again a reference to what the previous government has introduced. Here it was emphasized that the Minister would like to look at the supply of English-language courses. I think that is interesting because the document of understanding which the government has produced on its parliamentary basis shows that the government is going to remove the restriction on the provision of English-language education. At least there's a contradiction somewhere. Both cannot be done at the same time. But it is good to know that the Minister in the Chamber has confirmed that we will not live up to the understanding paper in this area. So a small step forward we came after all. I fully agree with the Minister that it is good that we in Denmark can attract students from outside. But, on the other hand, I am adamantly opposed to taking on an educational obligation for other countries, which is why we need to look at this much more seriously than I see the current minister doing. It is important that we stick to the agreement we made in 2013, and I must admit that I have not become much wiser about what the government really wants in this area, other than referring to what the previous government has done to respect the majority of the parliamentary decision to respect the ceiling that we have adopted. That is why I am trying once and for all to call on the Minister to open up and say what the Minister has to think about new defence initiatives, which the Minister rightly emphasizes must of course be discussed with the conciliation circle. Yes, they do, but it is the Minister who has the main responsibility in this regard. That is why, of course, it is also the Minister who has the commitment to play, and I am still ready to listen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161219	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161220	Of course the Minister has the main responsibility. Of course, the primary responsibility lies with the current government at all times. And, of course, I also have the right to play. That is also why, among other things, we are in favour of the Commission's proposal. The questioner has been invited to a meeting again on 18 November to discuss precisely these matters. For yes, something has to be done. However, I think with all due respect that this requires a negotiating table and that it is not a public debate in relation to having the sensitive discussions that affect a great many people.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161255	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161255-2	Good. We may not get much further and do not get the Minister to share his thoughts with the Danish Parliament today. I think that would be very reasonable, since it is the Danish Parliament that has decided that there should be a ceiling. So I'm gonna try another lead. After all, the Minister has emphasized that the restrictions on English-language training will not be removed and thus looks at the agreement in the understanding paper that has been concluded on the parliamentary basis. As I said, I think that is very good. But how does the Minister view the settlement itself? So, is the Minister going to respect the settlement that the Folketing has entered into back in 2013? If the Minister answers yes, and I assume the Minister does, then the Minister is also obliged to finance it beyond the ceiling within the su framework. So how does the Minister intend to do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161359	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161400	Yes, you can believe that both I and the government are going to respect the settlement that we have with each other. It is also a cornerstone of the understanding paper, which the questioner keeps referring back to, that of course we respect all the current conciliations. And that is also why we have said that if you can find a wiser way of doing it than the current one, we would very much like to look at it. But it is clear that we do not remove anything without having a better and more solid model to put forward instead. I think we will have to look at that together; that is why I have invited you to a meeting. I hope that the conciliation circle is ready to take that discussion. Because it is clear that if we do not find a way to go, for example. further reductions, then there is an obligation to find another funding. And in the past, the Folketing has at least thought that it was not attractive to finance it within the su system. If the Left has changed its position on this, I would, of course, be happy to hear it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161500	The enquirer, sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161501	I would like to follow up a question put by the main questioner: will the Minister confirm that the Minister does not intend to live up to the understanding paper which states that the limitation on English-language courses should be removed?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161512	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161515	I so live up to the understanding paper. It says two things. One is that we must respect all the existing settlements, and that is what we are doing. Of course, if you can find a wiser way of doing things under the same hat, we are interested in discussing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161535	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161536	I don't know what's going on with the government these days. The conflicting explanation, where both cannot be right, is evidently a trend which has now also spread over the Ministry of Education and Research. It says in the paper of understanding that the restriction on English-speaking education will be removed. The Minister has stood here today and said that the Minister is not going to do so. Well, which of those things is right? Is the Minister intending to remove the restriction on English-language courses? yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161605	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161606	The Minister intends to do so if there is anything wiser to replace it. Until we have it, no, of course we stand guard over the agreement we have with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161618	Then it is the main questioner to the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161619	That addition does not appear to me from the understanding paper. So the short of the long one is that the government with the Minister here at the head emphasizes that that part of the understanding paper will never ever be fulfilled. And I think that is a good thing, not least as long as the Minister does not make any other suggestions as to what should be done instead. Well, what are the defense initiatives the Minister is considering? We haven't heard anything about that yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161658	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161659	Fortunately, the questioner is hearing something about this, because the questioner is part of the group and is therefore invited, both the other day and again in a week's time, to negotiating meetings and discussions on precisely these issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161716	Thank you. That was question 27. Then we move on to question 28, where the main questioner is Mr. Morten Dahlin and the co-questioner are Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. The question is for the Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161727	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161727-2	How does the Minister intend to ensure that the increasing cost of the Su for migrant workers exceeding the ceiling set by the Association in 2013 is financed within the Su framework?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161740	It is clear from the compromise that if the cost of sugar exceeds the agreed ceiling substantially, the parties to the conciliation must jointly take initiatives to reduce expenditure and find financing for the continued excess within the su framework. This agreement is maintained by the government, and I actually hear that there is agreement in the conciliation circle. I believe that the first priority must be to bring expenditure down to the agreed level. We started that discussion in the conciliation group last Tuesday and will continue next week. The question of how we can finance a substantial overrun of the ceiling for migrant workers within the framework of the Social Fund is also something that we will then have to discuss in the conciliation group. There has so far been a consensus among the parties in the su-conciliation that it is not reasonable to reduce the diet for all Danish students in order to finance overruns of the ceiling in the su-conciliation, but if the Left or other parties have changed their views on that issue, it is of course a different situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161836	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161837	The Minister mentions that it is the first priority to reduce these costs. The Minister has made a statement which shows that last year a large two-digit sum of millions was spent too much. The Minister has made a forecast showing that 200 million will be spent in 2023. kr. Too much. The minister says it is the first priority to prevent her own prognosis from becoming a reality. Can I then ask the Minister here today to mention just one thing the Minister will do to make his own priority come true?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161912	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161912-2	There are a number of different ways to go. I am discussing these with the Committee of Inquiry at the meeting that has already been convened. I think this is a joint debate. The alternative is that I stand around me with possible scenarios and possible solutions before they are discussed politically, to frustration and confusion for all those who sit out there and can see that their educational provision will be threatened or that their company's workforce will no longer be there. In fact, I do not think this is fair to do rather than take it at a conciliation table, a negotiating table in which all the parties have access and where we can find a peaceful and solid solution to this together. That's my plan. I hope that the parties will be involved in this, including the author's own.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111161959	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162000	To hurl around with potential scenarios I think that's what others would call presenting solutions to a problem. Will the Minister present the government before the conciliation meeting?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162019	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162020	Of course, a thorough piece of work has been done on my part in relation to how these new figures, all of which are based on a completely new, changed behavior in this group and are therefore a whole new prognosis which has only just come in. Of course we have looked carefully, both in the Ministry and in myself, at how we can in any way reduce in the English-language educational places, so we get below this ceiling, or whether there are other ways to go. Of course it's work in full swing. That is also why meetings have been called for precisely that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162057	Then we come to the co-questioner, Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162059	This is not a new issue. Of course, the minister has made a new prognosis, but the problem is not new. And the defence initiatives that are now in operation are not new either. After all, what we are calling for is the Government's response to how the Minister, who has been saying here that it is important that we stick to the ceiling agreed by a majority in the Folketing back in 2013, will live up to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162133	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162137	This is actually a new problem, and it is actually also new ones. As I also answered one of the previous questions, what the author's own party member, my predecessor, started and which came into force in the summer of 2019, that is, less than a year and a half ago, is just beginning to work with the figures we are seeing now. If you had just stuck to what was the situation at the time, it would have been a different forecast. But now, on top of that, there has been a change in behaviour which, of course, we have to deal with politically. I shall inform the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection as soon as I can. That's what we did the other day. Of course, solutions have already been drawn up which can be discussed at that table. I hope the author's party will take part in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162224	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162225	If, in his action, the Minister was just as concerned about complying with this conciliation, which is reflected in the words of today's Parliamentary Chamber, then the Minister had already announced defence initiatives in respect of the figures for 2018, which the Minister presented late, yes, but we then withdrew it from the Minister, and it was published on the day when the government presented its proposal for a new municipal compensation, so that it was certain that the press did not find out that the Minister had a bad case here. After all, there was already an overrun in relation to the ceiling that we adopted in 2013. So the Minister has had plenty of time to discuss defence initiatives, because that is not a new issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162315	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162316	The picture says that since 2018, quite violent initiatives have been launched by my predecessor, which came into force almost at the same time as I joined the Ministry. In fact, I think it is fair when it is such a drastic reduction that was laid out on the universities after all and that has been made to great frustration out there. We held on to them, but of course it was because we thought they would work. They have done so, but at the same time there has been a change of behavior that still leaves us with this discussion. Moreover, I have no interest whatsoever in not informing the Folketing. In fact, I think that with the orientation that has now arrived the other day and that will come back out next, we are quite early on the year wheel in relation to the orientation of some of the predecessors. I have absolutely no interest in this not being discussed, because I share the concern about this development and, of course, we must have something done about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162410	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162411	Nevertheless, the Minister chose to publish...
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162416	No. It is the main questioner who has the last question (Ulla Tørnæs Well, I'm sorry, I'll be back) unless otherwise agreed among myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162422	The minister didn't answer my question before. I asked the Minister whether, before the conciliation meeting, the Minister would present what the Government's position is on, what initiatives should be taken. Will the Minister do it yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162435	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162437	Well, as I've been saying all along, there are a number of different ways to do this. I think there are pros and cons of different parts of them, and they can be crossed crosswise. In fact, I have such great respect for the conciliation circle that I would like to take the discussion at the table where the questioner's own party is also very welcome to participate. By the way, I expect you to do the same. So, of course, the government has an idea of what we are doing about this, but we are going to discuss it with the Su-conciliation Group, because that is what we owe when we are bound by a settlement with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162511	Thank you. That was question 27. Before we go to Question 28, I must warn the authors and the Minister that the President really has an opportunity to draw on a string which states that if the debate goes idle and you ask the same question and get the same answer, he can interrupt the debate. I don't know if we're there yet, because I think the imagination to ask questions is huge, but we're something close, I think. Let's try to move on to Question No. 28, as I know, is also a little on this subject, and there is the main questioner Mr. Morten Dahlin and the co-questioner Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. And it's for the Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162547	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162548	Does the government intend to continue to roll back the former government's defence initiatives in which the number of English-language training places in professional colleges, professional academies and universities was reduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162558	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162559	As I have already mentioned in my answer to question 263, the government is fully in line with the agreement reached in the Su-conciliation Group in 2013. That is why, as I have already mentioned, we chose to maintain the reductions in the number of places in English-language education introduced by the former VLAK government. Now the new forecast shows that further reductions in English-language training may be needed in order to limit the increase in expenditure. This means that we must introduce new initiatives to keep expenditure below the ceiling, but I have not yet adopted the concrete model, and I look forward to discussing it further in the conciliation group. So no, we are not rolling back any of the restrictions that have been imposed unless we find a durable model of how we deal with this situation in the future and to limit the cost of su to students with migrant status. This government is fully on the goal and guard of the conciliation agreement we have with each other. We're not gonna break that. We'll be watching over that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162704	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162705	Does the Minister and does the government have a position on which one of the apparently many different ways to go is best to go in terms of achieving it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162717	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162718	It is clear that, as a minister, I naturally relate to the various options, and I think that there are some that are very little attractive, and then there are some that are just a little attractive. There's none of this, there's easy solutions, there's none of this that's going to be easy to adopt. That does not change the fact that it is a bottom-up task and an agreement that we have with each other, and that is why we do it, of course. I think that we should do this together, and I think that we should have an eye on the consequences that are out there. It may be for our smaller educational provision that is being affected, it may be for our companies that are potentially unable to get the manpower they have otherwise been able to get, etc. There is a lot at stake in this discussion for the outside world out there, and that is why I think we should take this discussion soberly and properly at the conciliation table.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162809	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162809-2	Is there a contradiction between a sober and proper discussion and then a minister who says in public what the Minister's position is? Is there a contradiction there? And why has the Minister become a minister if the Minister does not intend to use his ministerial office to actually promote the position of the Minister and the policy that the Minister likes? I simply do not understand it, but perhaps the Minister can explain it to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162836	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162837	It is because I do not think that the questioner's premise that it can only take place here many metres apart, in this setup, where only two out of very many conciliation parties are present is not the optimal way to discuss it. That is why I have actually called a meeting in which we, together, where the whole conciliation circle is present, can take this discussion and where the conciliation circle can also see the bids that are on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162908	Then it's the co-questioner, Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111162909	I agree with the Minister that we must, of course, think about introducing defence initiatives. However, I would like to emphasise that I think that this is an unfortunate system if it is the case that we alone can support our education in the country, in other words, away from the major university towns, if we fund the educational commitment of other EU Member States. I think the Minister should change that and I can just say that we in the Left are ready to give an economic boost so that we get a Denmark in a better educational balance. This is very much needed, and it should not be financed by accepting, as I said, the educational obligation of other countries. No, it must be financed in a healthy and sustainable way, and it is very much needed. Now the Minister says that this is an important matter and that we need to think about it and that we need to discuss it together. I wonder why the Minister chooses to publish such an important case on the very day of the presidential elections in the United States. Well, then, it's not exactly the biggest invitation to an important public debate on this important issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111163034	I don't use pot lids and stuff, but when I tap on the table with a pen, it means time's up. It helps the questioner. The minister. Ulla Tørnæs Sorry, President).
ParlaMint-DK_20201111163046	Thank you. I would like to repeat what I said earlier, namely that I sincerely want this discussion with the questioner, the author's party and the whole circle of conciliation. With all due respect, there are many heavy news days at the moment, and the publication was linked to the meeting to which the questioner was also invited. So there's no cover in that part. Moreover, as far as I remember, front page stories have been made on this very story by the questioner himself, so it has not been entirely newsworthy after all. In any case, that has not been what has been driving me on the contrary. We're gonna meet, we're gonna solve this together.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111163128	Then the co-author has one more question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111163136	The fact that there has been media coverage of what you were involved in was also an indication that we wanted the government's position. What is it that the government will do to ensure that the settlement we have entered into in the Folketing is complied with? Now we have been standing here for now 20 minutes, I think, and unfortunately we have not gotten any smarter at all. I think it is a pity that the Minister looks very much at the Parliament's desire to have a wider debate on how we ensure that, firstly, we do not lift the educational obligation of other countries to their own citizens by being able to come to Denmark and receive free training, even if it is on a voluntary basis. Secondly, we are holding back and not accepting that commitment. We still miss the government's bid for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111163238	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111163240	In fact, with all due respect, I think that I will still reserve the right to take the view that the discussion that the questioner is calling for with the Folketing must, with respect for the Folketing, have in the broad circle of conciliation with the parties that have entered and have taken responsibility for this. That is where everyone is present and where we sit together, we must have that discussion and have the first round of what we do about it together. That is why the questioner and the author's party have just been invited to do so just next week. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111163313	Then we go back to the main questioner for his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111163314	Now we have had a long discussion here in the Parliamentary Chamber today, and the discussion leads to the Minister spending more money on the su for migrant workers than it has been agreed that the Minister should spend. And the Minister knots his tongue and drives out all sorts of explanations to avoid explaining how the Minister will solve the problem. Can the Minister not understand if someone is out there watching and wondering why the Minister will not present a solution to a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111163352	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111163353	I can repeat what I have said a few times now. That is, it is in fact with the utmost respect for the Folketing and for the conciliation circle of which my own party is a part. In order to present the figures, the new forecasts, the new assessment of the changed behaviour, both at the last meeting and at the next meeting of the next week, and indeed also to have a concrete discussion on the solutions to what we are doing together in the conciliation circle, I do believe that this is where we belong and not between two parties out of many in a conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111163426	I would like to thank both the Minister, sir. Morten Dahlin and Mrs Ulla Tørnæs for 361⁄2 minutes of exciting and imaginative questions and answers where we really came around the topics. The next question is to the Minister for Industry and the questioner is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111163451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111163452	Thank you. Unfortunately, I did not have the opportunity to ask the question last week, since I was myself in isolation after close contact with a coronasmitt. But my question to the Minister for Industry is: What does the Minister expect increasing taxes and taxes to have consequences for Danish industry and the competitiveness of Danish industry?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111163508	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111163510	Thank you. And it is good to see that the questioner is back again and out of isolation. I can say that the government is working hard to strengthen the productivity and competitiveness of Danish companies, but it is clear that we are doing this in a different way than the previous government. We believe that a good industrial policy cannot be boiled down to being a matter of taxation alone. We believe, among other things. That a strong business community and a strong welfare society are each other's prerequisites, and I do not recognise the picture that taxes should be raised broadly for business. It is true that certain taxes have been raised partly because we think it is fair, partly because we can push on in relation to better health and green change through behavioural changes. Together with a broad majority in Parliament and I think that the Left is with us, we have among other things. raised the prices for cigarettes and introduced a number of green behavior taxes, so we use less plastic and the young will smoke less. These are behavioural changes we would like to see. However, as I said, business policy is more than taxes and duties. We focus on creating the best framework for our business by providing the right skills for future companies, support for Danish strengths and innovative public-private cooperation for the benefit of Danish business. In addition, the government will invest significantly more in research and the green transition. We have among other things. an extra high deduction for research and development, and we have established the Danish Green Future Foundation of 25 billion. kr. It also benefits the business community. I am therefore convinced that the competitiveness of Danish industry will be strengthened under the current government. At any rate, I can assure you that this is our full focus and we will also see new jobs moving forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111163701	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111163702	In the month of August in Berlingske you could read a record of what had been said in a debate between the party leaders in May when it was discussed how Denmark should get through the Corona crisis well. And there the Prime Minister said that the government did not want to raise the tax and that, and now I quote: that would be a strange answer to Danish business, which is in a really, really difficult situation. So that means that what the Prime Minister said at the time is actually not right. Is this how I have to understand the Minister for Industry, that is, that the solution that you look forward to is to raise taxes for business in a situation where we actually have corona in society?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111163739	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111163740	I say quite clearly that I do not recognise the picture that taxes should have been raised broadly for our business community. It is true that we have made joint agreements, for example. on the cigarettes, which take up a lot and then pass on to the customers, by the way, because the customers have to stop smoking so much. And here I must appeal to the Left to make up for themselves, whether you are out in this little noble art of blowing and having flour in your mouth, to criticize tax increases and then stand behind them. I guess it can't be so bad even when we can agree to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111163817	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111163818	The Danish Industry and Ministry of Finance have calculated how many taxes have been proposed, agreed and adopted during this reign, and this comes to 11.8 billion. kr. That is a very significant amount, barely 12 billion. kr. These include: a particularly high corporate tax rate for the financial sector of 2 billion. kr. In the view of the Minister for Industry, is this not an important factor in the competitiveness of the economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111163851	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111163852	I appeal to you to think of business policy as more than just a matter of taxation. Because if you take the inventory and look down on it, then the 4 billion. kr. For example, from our joint agreement, which also includes the Left, on cigarette taxes. I do not have the impression that the Danish economy is going to collapse. In the other hand, everything we do in relation to research and development allowances is Denmark's Green Future Fund, aid packages, support for our business community and the general creation of a good society with skilled and competent employees. I believe that this is part of a picture of the framework conditions that apply to our business community, and I am very much in favour of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111163934	The questioner for his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111163935	If you look at the tax increases adopted, they total 13.3 billion. kr., and then some of the tax reliefs that have been made have been offset. I have to admit that the research and development allowance is not on the list, so I do not think it is completely up to date. But that cannot change it to a significant extent: it is still more than 10 billion. kr., which the government has imposed on the business community extra. Will the Prime Minister stand here and say that it is not very important for business to impose additional taxes on them for 10 billion? kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111164008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111164008-2	Well, of course everything has an effect, but you have to see things in a context. I am just appealing that we should not be looking too blindly at the one tool in the toolbox about the framework conditions, and that applies to both the government and the Left too. It is clear that the tax tool is a tool. That is also why I am pleased that we can give a higher deduction for research and development. But it is also about the other tools. It is competences, it is employees, it is accessibility, it is a strong welfare society that surrounds our businesses. All these are also framework conditions for our companies, and we need to see everything in a context.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111164049	Thank you. That was the end of Question 29. Now we move on to Question 30, which is also addressed to the Minister for Industry. The questioner is also Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111164100	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111164101	The question is: how does the government intend to improve the competitiveness of businesses in the coming years?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111164108	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111164110	Thank you for the question. As everyone knows, right now we are in an extraordinary situation around the covid-19. The world economy has been significantly set back, and this is also true at home in the Danish economy. The year 2020 will sign into the history books, there is no doubt about that, not only for gloomy numbers of unprecedented dimensions, but also for the strong cohesion that has been our way through the crisis. Important decisions were taken quickly and jointly, and the government, together with a broad majority in the Folketing, has decided on several occasions to help packages for many billions of dollars, which have held hands under Danish business under the covid-19. The government continues to work to strengthen the productivity and competitiveness of Danish companies. We are just doing it, as I said in the previous reply, in a slightly different way from the previous government. With good general framework conditions and a focus on the positions of industrial strength, we can politically support the competitiveness of companies. The government focuses on the competitiveness of business throughout the green transition, and we have involved business through the climate partnerships. We have concluded a number of climate agreements and, as I said, the Danish Green Future Fund has been launched as a contribution to the national and global green transition. We invest significantly in the research area with an extra high research and development allowance and more public green research funds. In addition, we have proposed spending 10 billion. kr. in a green space up to 2025, so there will be certainty about green investment. It is important for the government to involve business on an ongoing basis in its work. That is why we have also implemented most of the recommendations of the so-called restart teams, which are targeted at restarting exports. In 2021, we will continue the dialogue on precisely these issues. Then we look forward, we have set aside a war chest of just over 9 billion. kr., such as: to be used for further restarting the economy and exporting. So, overall, there are plenty of initiatives that have been launched and are coming to the benefit of Danish companies in the policy that the government stands for.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111164317	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111164318	Normally, the way to help create opportunities for growth is not to pay companies to make growth. That is necessary at the moment, and I understand that. We fully support the aid packages that are there. But businesses must be able to bear themselves in the future. This can be helped by either ensuring that they do not have additional burdens • it can be both financial burdens in terms of taxes and charges, but it can also be burdens in terms of administrative problems or by ensuring that they actually have a growth potential, in other words, in terms of being able to get more labour; ensuring that there is sufficient labour or borrowing opportunities. But as far as I can see, taxes and charges have been increased. In any case, the burden has not fallen. The supply of labour has shrunk and, on the other hand, it has now become more expensive to operate in Denmark than to raise capital. It has become more difficult to raise capital because different investment opportunities, which would otherwise have been intended in the economy, are being prevented. Is it intended that the way to promote Danish business on the part of the government is also forward-looking to provide support when corona is over, through green agreements? Not that we do not support the green, but how will we ensure that it will be companies that can actually stand on their own feet and that have growth potential in themselves? Does the government not recognize any of these traditional ways of trying to ensure that there is in fact a basis for business growth?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111164440	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111164441	Sure. I just appeal to us to look at it more broadly than to look in isolation at the traditional ways of doing so. Let me give you a few examples. The research and development allowance is an entirely cash example of supporting companies in investing in the future: more research, more development. The government wants to launch a life science strategy, use the strength position we have in our entire life science sector, and allocate 200 million. kr. to the one over the next few years. We have invested massively in the green transition. We are investing in helping entrepreneurs get capital while there is a crisis, because it is also a response to business that they should not be let down when there is a crisis, but helping them stand on their own feet and be able to continue fighting after the crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111164524	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111164525	This was very interesting, especially the last part in relation to entrepreneurs, which the Minister spoke about. After all, the investor allowance has been removed, the increase in the share savings account has been removed. The government has chosen to say that, in the future, you should no longer be able to invest your pension savings in unlisted shares. It's like startups starting with unlisted shares, because that's before they're listed. So what kind of a way to help entrepreneurs? Because the way I see it, you limit the opportunities of entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111164556	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111164556-2	With regard to entrepreneurs, I think there are two key points to focus on. One is that during a crisis in which the investor market is drying out and there is not as much juice and power in the investor market, we go in with the Growth Fund and say that we are ready to match the investment the investors still give, after all, with a factor three. It is a very good matching facility that ensures that we have skilled entrepreneurs on the other side of the crisis. Then, in a broad majority of the Danish Parliament, to which the questioner's party is also to count, we have agreed to create an ambitious entrepreneurial strategy for Denmark, because of course we must be in the forefront of green entrepreneurs and more female entrepreneurs. We have a great future for our entrepreneurs ahead of us, and we need to work out a strategy for this together.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111164643	The questioner, last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111164644	Well, I am pleased that the Minister is also pleased with the initiative that we have helped to push for in relation to the Growth Fund. All the initiatives which the Minister has now mentioned and which we would like to make in order to improve business conditions are, after all, part of the aid packages that we have negotiated together. But they're all temporary. There is nothing structural in them at all. So what is the Minister going to do to ensure that, when these aid packages run out, there is actually help for business? Because it is only temporary packages that the Minister prides himself on here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111164714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111164715	I am always happy when the Left is happy about what the Growth Fund is doing. It warms my heart because it's a construction I'm really happy about. We have to make a distinction here. For it is true that aid packages and compensation schemes must, of course, protect companies from falling in the crisis. However, in the agreements we have made, we have also laid out the clues. When we have made a restart agreement for restarting the export industries, when we have made a summer package that should also point forward in keeping hands under the economy for those industries that are hardest hit, then it is also an investment in the future. For the alternative had been that the companies in Denmark had blown down in the crisis • some of them at least. We came out of the crisis with a great many companies still in place, and it is companies that are ready to fight further on on the domestic and global markets afterwards. So crisis aid is also good business policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111164806	Thank you to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm and to the Minister for today's work. We shall now proceed to Question 31. The question is asked by Mr. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party, and the question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111164820	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111164821	Thank you, President-in-Office: is it still the view of the Minister that it is a pity that Denmark is not included in the agreement between Austria and Serbia of April 2019 on an exit centre located in Serbia, as the Minister expressed in answering question S 1406 on 17 June 2020, and will the Minister take advantage of the good political relations that exist between Denmark and Austria to get Denmark to join the agreement, so that Denmark can also use the exit facilities in Serbia?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111164850	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111164852	I would like to start by saying: yes, that is still a pity. As you know, we are working for a new asylum system in which we want to remove the incentive structures in the current asylum system, which enable traffickers to make quite a fortune in helping migrants and refugees to Europe. That is why we are working to move asylum procedures out of Europe to a reception centre in a third country. Until we succeed, we have a huge task of strengthening the return policy, and we have taken a number of initiatives and steps towards that. I believe that the new proposal from the Commission on a new asylum and migration pact can also take us another step in that direction. When we want to strengthen the return policy, it is, of course, because people who have been denied asylum have to leave the country. This also includes discussions on exit centres and, as the questioner refers to, Austria has previously concluded an agreement with Serbia on the transfer of, among other things, Serbia. rejected asylum seekers to be returned to their own country of origin. Unfortunately, as the questioner also mentions, Denmark is not part of this agreement and, as I said, that is very unfortunate. It is an agreement that was concluded in April 2019 before I myself joined as Minister, so I do not know why the previous government has not succeeded in bringing Denmark into the agreement. I have to say that I had hoped so and, as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party before the elections, I also appealed to us to become part of this agreement. It could have been interesting for Denmark to be part of such an agreement, but now it is just not up to us to break into such an agreement that has therefore been concluded between Austria and Serbia. For me, it is most important that there is a gap, because such an agreement also shows that it is possible to establish cooperation on migration problems with a country outside Europe, and that is, of course, the whole basis of our asylum policy in the government. And I will do everything I can to make similar agreements in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111165050	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111165051	Thank you, President, and thank you for your reply. When I ask again, it is not just for us to confirm each other in what we dream of. It is because I can see that the rapprochements between the Danish and Austrian Governments are becoming increasingly warmer. On 29 October, the Austrian EU Minister, Mrs Karoline Edtstadler, was able to present a picture of her and the Danish Minister, who indicated that the meeting that had just taken place had discussed the EU Migration Pact and generally talked about migration policy and the situation in Europe. It is obvious, then, that the Danish Government took such an opportunity to say that we would very much like to be involved in the cooperation with Serbia. We can, of course, help on the positive side with a lot of things in terms of know-how and to bear financial costs etc. with the Austrians, but also get the advantage that they rejected asylum seekers and others who are not supposed to be in Denmark, so will not sit comfortably. You have to assume that they still do, since the government hasn't had much change in the conditions of departure since it joined Denmark, but come to Serbia, where it is probably something more inconvenient to be. Therefore, I just want to hear when you can now look at the social media that there is a close relationship between the Danish and Austrian ministers and the government... whether the minister has managed to address the need and perhaps get the Austrians to support that Denmark should also be part of this agreement, so that we can send our rejected asylum seekers and other good people to Serbia.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111165245	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111165246	It is true that I recently met the Austrian Minister for European Affairs. It was primarily about us agreeing that we are both opposed to the distribution of asylum seekers arriving in the countries of southern Europe. This is an attempt to interfere in the discussions at European level on this migration pact. I have previously met with the Austrian Minister for the Interior, and I have said to him, as I have also done in public, that Denmark would very much like to have exit centres outside Europe. We said that before the elections, and we still think so now, but we do not have the opportunity to break into an agreement that has already been made between Austria and Serbia.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111165330	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111165330-2	No, no, but I do not imagine that one should break into an agreement; I imagine that for everyone's mutual benefit and joy one should become a part So, I don't really see who would be opposed to any more being able to join this agreement. In other words, the Austrians have an interest in increasing the promise they have to make to the Serbs and thus sharing the challenges and burdens. And for Denmark, that would be an obvious advantage. I mean, are the Serbs against it? Can the Minister perhaps lift a little of the veil over what is difficult here?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111165404	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111165405	We do not have the opportunity to become part of the agreement that has been reached between Austria and Serbia. We would very much like to make similar agreements. I do not have the opportunity to reveal any more, as the questioner asks, for reasons of foreign policy interests, including relations with other countries which need to be kept confidential.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111165434	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111165435	However, when I ask in this way, it is because the Minister and the Minister's party have put the Danes at risk of upheaval in the whole asylum procedure. And being able to send people who have been rejected to a third country where they can then move on is just a small corner of what the government has promised us. And so far nothing has happened, after all, there has not even been a replacement for Lindholm. So what's going on? After all, it is quite a time since the Minister sat down in the ministerial chair. And then, for the sake of other countries, you will not say anything concrete about it. So you could say, when does it start to move? Will it be before the New Year; will it be before the spring; will it be before the parliamentary elections? I mean, when can we expect something of what the government promised us to do just that step by step?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111165523	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111165524	It is true that we have an ambition to move asylum procedures out of Europe, and that is also our first priority. And it does not stand still; it keeps moving forward. It is true that that is not all we can tell you about, because if we told you about it, I think it would put us some steps back in our efforts to actually succeed. But some of the things we can tell you about, for example, are about. strengthening and intensifying cooperation with countries bordering Europe in addressing migration challenges. We have, for example. redirected part of the development funds to build capacity-building border and asylum authorities in the Balkans and North Africa, and we have also spent some money in Rwanda. It is all an attempt to strengthen relations with countries outside Europe in order to enter into a dialogue on migration challenges, not necessarily a reception centre, but at least on how we have common interests in gaining more control over migratory flows. At least I can say that much.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111165624	Thank you to the Minister and to Mr. Messerschmidt for today's efforts. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). S 32, and the questioner is Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative, and the question is for the Minister of Employment. Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111165638	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111165639	Thank you, President. Does the Minister believe that it is reasonable for pensioners and early retirement pensioners who have lived up to two years with a partner who has a job to be deducted from their benefits because their partner works when they do not have a legal claim for support?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111165706	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111165708	Thank you for the question from Mr. Torsten Gejl. It is a guiding principle of our welfare system that we target benefits to those who have the least and most need support for support. This also applies to the organisation of the pension system, where lower rates of co-existence and common income regulation help to ensure the appropriate and targeted use of the tax-financed pension benefits. In this context, it does not matter how long one has lived together. In assessing whether the rules are reasonable, I think there is reason to stress that it is only if the partner or spouse has substantial income that the pension is reduced. For an early retirement pensionist who has no supplementary income himself, the early retirement pension will be reduced only if the partner earns more than DKr 381,872. a year, and folk and early retirement pensioners are always guaranteed their own independent dependency, regardless of the level of income of the spouse or partner. An early retirement pensionist on a new scheme after 2003 cannot be reduced to DKr 12,889. per month as a result of a collector's income, no matter how much this earns. If you have chosen to live together as a couple, whether you are married or living together, you basically have a better economic situation if you live with someone who has substantial income. Therefore, there is also reasonableness in the rules in force, taking into account that, as a pensioner, you always have your own social security base from the state, regardless of how high the partner's income is. Having said that, however, I am aware that this is an issue of concern to many citizens and also to politicians here in the Danish Parliament, and I think it is quite relevant that we should take that debate and continually discuss the practical arrangements for the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111165856	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111165858	Thank you for that answer. I hear from many sources that something might soon happen in relation to interdependence and mutual dependency, and that some of it might be dropped. I understood that perhaps the Minister has also indicated this to some demonstrators down here in the Reichsdagsgården. If that is true, it is a huge victory for all those who have worked to eliminate the interdependence and interdependence, and, of course, the honour must go to all the citizens who have fought the battle and made a very, very large citizen's proposal with many, many supporters that we have had to deal with here in the Folketing. I have also noticed that Arne's pension is exempt from interdependence and mutual dependency, and we cannot take that as anything other than a signal. In the alternative, of course, we go to the financial law negotiations with demands for the elimination of interdependence and as much of the mutual dependency as we can. But I would just like to draw attention to the children. Now it is the case that if I were an early retirement and lived with someone who has a job, I would be put down in service because my partner has a job, but I will be, regardless of how many children I have. So I don't get paid much, whether I have zero children or I have five children to whom I depend. After all, the social security system takes into account the fact that people have children and helps them in this way. Does the Minister think that it is fair that one does not take this into account at all and that one is put down equally in benefits regardless of how many children one has as a single-parent early retirement pensionist?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111170026	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111170029	I think there are several things that are important to say. Firstly, I do not want to comment on what has been specifically discussed in connection with which negotiations. As I mentioned in my introduction, I have both an understanding and respect that this is an ongoing discussion, and we do not assume from the government that these are rules set out in stone. However, I would like to say, on the other hand, that there is the fundamental principle that if you as a family have the opportunity to support yourself, whatever the situation you are in, you must of course take that into account, and our levels of benefits must take that into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111170104	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111170105	My second question is this: does the Minister think that it is reasonable that thousands of cohabiting pensioners and early retirement pensioners risk being tax scammers because they do not know whether the money, assets or gifts they receive from their working parties are subject to free support or whether they really have to pay the gift tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111170126	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111170126-2	At any rate, I believe that there is something very clear, both after the treatment that we had of the citizens' draft which there were a great many citizens who signed back in early spring, I think it must have been, or just on the other side of New Year's Day and the debate that is constantly appearing, namely that there are also some things that can be discussed further in the design of this system. What I also have to keep reminding you of is that the principle of spouse dependency really goes both ways. There are also a great many families of pensioners and early retirement pensioners who, because of the principle of family dependency, can actually transfer, among other things. deductions to the other spouse and thus to be better off, which would lose money on abolishing the principle of marital dependency. That is why I think it is important that we think carefully if it is that we have to set this up in a new way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111170224	At any rate, it is wise to think carefully. For many citizens, of course, are trapped in a ruleless tax area where you do not know whether you have to pay a gift tax on the liver-patterns or flowers or the gifts or the television or the car or the travels, even if you are receiving money from your working partner. It is, of course, in the whole system, and there is what I would like to hear from the Minister whether it is reasonable for so many citizens to know at all what their tax situation is and whether they cannot do, just as they did in 2014 with the recipients of cash benefits, where, for the same reason, they simply abolished the interdependence.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111170309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111170310	I think it is important, as I have said on several occasions, that we have a principle in the arrangement of our benefit system which is that, if you have the opportunity to support yourself, you should also do so, and that if you have a spouse who has a certain income, in the same household you should of course also share some of the expenses. That is why we rate income in many different contexts throughout the benefit system. Whether the system that we have now, what can be said, makes so many citizens so inappropriate that it is worth having a discussion about that, at least that is what I think you can sense for many of the citizens who have been behind the citizens' proposal • we are not opposed to looking at. However, I think it is important that we maintain the fundamental principle that if you have the opportunity to support yourself and your loved ones, then, of course, you do too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111170403	Thank you. That was Question 32. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 33, and that is for the Minister for Employment, and the questioner is again Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111170414	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111170417	That is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène. 33. It is so that if, for example, I... was an early retirement and had a wife who had a job, I would be put down in the allowance because my wife worked, but I do not have the right to support. In other words, I am, in effect, reduced to benefit without having the right to support. I'm being put down in service without having a legal claim that I'm getting some money. That is the question I would like to ask again, now that the President has allowed it. Is that fair, sir? Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111170505	I would remind you that the first time you have the floor for a question, you read your question and then you start with the other arguments afterwards. But I think the Minister has understood what this is all about. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111170517	I have. The rules, as Mr. Torsten Gejl refers to in the question, is not part of the rules for folk and early retirement workers in employment law, but falls within the scope of tax legislation. And as I understand it, it is quite general rules that have nothing to do with whether you are a pensioner or not. But, as I said, it's outside my range. The rules on spouse dependency in the pension system are based on information on the couple's taxable income, and the question of when tax is payable on the assets and gifts of a collector does not matter in this context. I would like to reiterate what I mentioned in the answer to the previous question: the aim of the common income regulation is to ensure the appropriate and targeted use of the tax-financed services. This does not mean that I have no sympathy for the desire for higher benefits. However, in order that the socio-economic of course is both fair and able to run around and that we can maintain the welfare society that we have today, I also think that there is reasonableness in targeting those who have the greatest need.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111170621	Then there is the opportunity to ask a committed question, and there are as many as 2 minutes in the first round.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111170626	Now it is the case that the citizens affected by spouse dependency and mutual dependents are the citizens who have the least in our society. It's not like people get hit by this because they have a lot. These are people on transfer income who often lack money for medicine and who often have children for whom the benefit has not been adjusted. After all, it is people who are put in an incredibly difficult situation that is not their own fault. It may also be pensioners who go on early retirement. Those people depend on their partner's income, precisely because they are affected by the matter of mutual dependants, that is to say, the dependency of couples, but they do not have a legal right to do so. Does the Minister think it reasonable that there is the economic imbalance among people who have just sought together in love that one party suddenly has far more influence on the common economy than the other?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111170728	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111170729	I know that there is no common practice in asking questions in the opposite direction, but it is also just to understand it. Because in relation to that, sir. Torsten Gejl says that early-retirement pensioners do not have a right to a benefit: that is to say, it is not the case that the entire benefit can be cancelled. As I mentioned in my previous reply, an early retirement pensionist for the new scheme cannot be reduced to DKr 12,889. I understand that very well, because I also know many of the citizens whom Mr. Torsten Gejl refers to, and it can be difficult and hard. However, the benefit is only reduced if it is that your spouse has an income over there. And I fully understand the dilemmas and problems and, as such, also the unreasonableness that individuals may feel they are in. And that, of course, is also why many parties in the Folketing are raising this issue and that we in the government are also willing to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111170821	It is not customary, but it is permissible to ask questions, especially if it can promote dialogue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111170827	It's okay for me. I know that, thank God, there's a limit to how much you can take of these people's services, because they've found twoness and love, thank God. But the fact that you take some of them does mean that those people become some of the poorest we have in our country. Well, some of them fall below the cash benefits limit. My second question is: would the Minister please tell the citizens and me what free entertainment is? Well, if I'm an early retirement and I live with someone who works, how much can she give me? Can she give me liver pie sandwiches? Can she give me a TV? Can she give me a trip? What can she give me? What is free entertainment? How should you pay your tax properly in that situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111170914	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111170915	I do not think it is for me to try to unfold how the detailed rules are administered. In the pension system, as we know it, we have a principle of spouse dependency, and I have explained on several occasions, both the advantages of that principle and the challenges of it. And it will be the case that I will at any time basically believe that, if you are a family and can afford it, you must, of course, help to support your spouse, who is in a situation where he or she has difficulty supporting himself before he or she receives benefits at the highest level. And then I think there may be a discussion about the precise layout of the rules today, which quite openly puts many citizens in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111171009	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111171011	Does the Minister for Employment admit that this is a bomb in the tax system where, precisely in these areas, no one can find out whether they should pay the gift tax that we all have to pay? I mean, if I give my girlfriend a huge gift, I have to pay the gift fee. We all have to pay the gift tax. But does the Minister admit that in this area where we are suggesting that one party should give something to the other party, because otherwise we would not have introduced a co-existence, no one can find out what to pay in tax, and that in this way it is a bomb under the tax system and under the people's economy, in that you risk suddenly being charged tax 3 years back?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111171100	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111171100-2	Once again, I would like to remind you that the rules relating to household and gift taxes and so on. is a matter for the Minister of Taxation, and it is the case that the rules on spouse dependency in the pension system are based on information on the couple's taxable income, and the question of when tax is due on the assets and gifts of a collector is not relevant in relation to spouse dependency in the pension system.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111171130	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl and to the Minister for Employment for Action in Question 33. Then we go to Question 34, which is also for the Minister for Employment, and the questioner is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111171147	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111171150	Thank you for that, and thank you for the fine pronunciation of my name. The question is as follows: what is the Minister doing to ensure that the European Commission's proposal for a European minimum wage does not interfere with the Danish model?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111171203	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111171204	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen and enquires Mrs Ulla Tørnæs for the question. It is a matter which, fortunately, is of such concern to all of us in the Folketing. And I would like to make it quite clear that the government is vertically opposed to any regulation that could undermine the Danish labour market model directly or indirectly. The parties must be able to negotiate without political interference. And I also feel that I would like to make every effort to ensure that the Danish model can continue to exist in the future. First of all, the government wants to build out the legal basis. Therefore, at the request of Denmark, the EU Presidency has asked the Council's legal service for a written assessment of the legal basis of the directive. This is an area in which there should be no uncertainty or doubt, and this is, of course, also crucial to the long-term treatment of the proposal. And, of course, the government will also see whether the principle of subsidiarity has been respected. These are basic prerequisites which we must have in place and which we are now also analysing in more detail, among other things. in close cooperation with the social partners. But, of course, it is also important that we concentrate on the draft directive itself. I appreciate that the Commission has tried to accommodate Denmark by making it clear in the directive that countries cannot be forced to introduce a statutory minimum wage or to make collective agreements universal. But having said that, there are still elements in what has been put forward that concern me. This is where we must pay particular attention to both the direct and indirect consequences that the proposal may have. We will be fully aware of this in the further process, and we must do everything we can to ensure that the Danish model is not undermined. I very much appreciate the close dialogue the government has on the matter, both with the social partners, the Parliament's Employment Committee and the Parliament's European Committee and also with all the Danish MEPs. I look forward to further discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111171400	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111171402	Thank you. Well, all means may be equally drastic. I do not imagine that the Minister should copy those who are standing at the Palace Square with pots and pans etc. So if we just stick to such usual, traditional parliamentary means, we are satisfied in the Left. To ask for the Council's legal service's written assessment of the scope of the directive seems to me to be very sensible. So let me ask the Minister what is the legal value of a written assessment by the legal service in the Council? Is it someone that the Court of Justice is obliged to follow or where do we find ourselves in the hierarchy? But where is it primarily that the Minister sees cause for concern in relation to the fact that the Danish model could be endangered directly or indirectly, intentionally or unintentionally?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111171524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111171525	I think I would like to start by saying that I am very pleased with the dialogue that the government has with the Left, both the members of the Left and the Members of the European Parliament. Well, that's one of them. The Left Member of the European Parliament who got the Commissioner beaten up a guarantee now we have to see how far that guarantee lasts. There's no doubt about it, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen also points out that the Commission has tried to listen. What is more the forward-looking challenge and concern is whether they have also sufficiently understood how far our labour market model really goes when it comes to the principle of no political interference in the free right of negotiation to establish pay and working conditions. Now I didn't get to answer that at all, I'm sorry, I'm gonna have to come back to that in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111171618	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111171619	Well, I don't think I got the answers to my questions. The first question I would like to ask is a written assessment by the Council's legal service and what importance it attaches to it in the Court of Justice. The second is: which part of the directive, in other words which articles, is what the government is concerned about could undermine the Danish model?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111171645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111171646	I'll try to answer those questions. So it is the case that opinions from the Council's legal service are for the Council's internal advice and as such do not have a particular legal status. Their value depends on the professional respect enjoyed by the legal service. In other words, should it come to justice at some point, then the opinion of the Council's legal service will, of course, be included in it. But it is not, at least not according to the general assessment of the Ministry of Employment, something that has a high status in the hierarchy of legal sources. However, it can be said that what is crucial to that opinion is the further examination in the Council and the further discussion, which is why we need to have something from the Council's service in writing, also for the further discussions and future negotiations among the Member States.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111171742	Then we'll go over to the co-questioner. This is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, also from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111171746	Thank you and thank you very much to the Minister for her reply. It is somewhat unclear to me what it is actually that the Council's legal service has been asked to make an assessment of. The minister mentioned that it was the legal basis. This is a sensible start, but it might also be possible, with reference to specific articles, to ask for an assessment from the Council's legal service so that we can then proceed with perhaps some specific amendments to the proposal for a directive itself, so that, if it is adopted, there can be no undermining of the Danish model.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111171835	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111171836	I will not deny that we can use the Council. As is normally the case, the Council's legal service is at the disposal of, inter alia: to clarify the legal basis for discussions on new proposals. It is doing the Council's legal service because it is set in the world to service the Member States. If we are to be quite honest, we also have the expectation that the Commission has, of course, to some extent had it cross-checked in the other parts of the EU system and that it is believed that the legal basis would fly. Nevertheless, we think it is important to challenge the issue of the legal basis, because it is both political and of principle, because we really think it was quite clear in the Treaty of Lisbon that issues relating to the fixing of salaries are the responsibility of the Member States alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111171939	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111171940	We are in complete agreement with the government in that is very sensible at this stage in the process, in other words to see whether there is a proper legal basis. Then we will just have to wait for the legal service to respond to the government's request. But my question really went a little further and I understand that the Minister does not really want to go into a discussion about it. That then brings me to ask for something a little different and then not anyway. After all, the Commissioner has said with briskness and bram that it is fake news when various parts of Danish society claim it. The chairman of Danish Metal has actually gone so far as to demand that we leave European cooperation if this directive is adopted in its present form. That is what the Commissioner claims to be the expression of fake news, because under no circumstances would there be any undermining of the Danish model. Is that a fake claim on the part of the Commissioner?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111172058	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111172059	I do not think it would be necessary for the further dialogue to claim that the Commissioner created fake news. I think, however, that the Danish Government has always made it clear to the Commission that we need to listen very carefully to both the very worried and critical voices on both the employees and the employers. And when a representative of the workers' side, such as Claus Jensen, who has been appointed as a European of the year at some point by the European movement, expresses himself so strongly, I think that there is reason to sharpen ears and pay extra attention. It's something everyone's worried about. I think there is a general recognition of the attempt to shield the Danish model. This has been attempted, but what is the general concern is that some of the provisions contained in Articles 9, 10 and 11 may lead to some form of judicial review which could then also extend the interpretation of the proposal and thereby extend the scope of the proposal. That is what I hear particularly the worker side is concerned about, and that is a concern that we listen to and share.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111172212	Then it's the main questioner's last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111172216	Thank you. Let me also congratulate the Minister for being concerned about the fact that there is a legal basis for the rules being adopted. It is good that at least one minister is thinking about it. Let me ask you a little more carefully where the government is concerned. Where are we gonna start? Because if it turns out that there is where is it in the directive that may be cause for that concern on the Danish side?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111172250	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111172251	Some of the elements we are concerned about are, after all, specifically about monitoring, and this is particularly about implementation. I think I mentioned the specific articles before, namely Articles 9, 10 and 11. The reason why we are concerned about this is that we know that the articles in other proposals over the years following court rulings have extended the interpretation and thus extended the scope of the specific proposals. That is why it is crucial for us when and if we enter into the very concrete negotiations, because that is also important for us on the part of the government at least. And in relation to the mandate to be given, this is something that we will be discussing very closely with the Committee on European Affairs, namely that, if we get there, if we have found that there is a legal basis and that we have found that Denmark does not have a right of veto over this proposal, we must therefore come in and try to work the proposal in the best possible place. Then we must also ensure that those points of concern are covered.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111172359	Thank you for that and thank you for your efforts. Jan E. Jørgensen and Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. Thank you, too, to the Minister. To the viewers and listeners we traditionally have at these Wednesday sittings, I can say that the normal form is that a member of parliament has the right to put a question to the Minister on Fridays, to which the Minister will then reply on Wednesdays. It is usually a dialogue between the Minister and the MP. You can then choose what we have just witnessed here, namely that a member of parliament brings a fellow questioner if you think you will have the opportunity for a great many questions. For then you will have access to two additional questions, and that is why it offers an opportunity to know a great deal of detail from the Minister. What we are about to do now is one of the more traditional models, the one in which one member of parliament asks the Minister. This time, sir. Hans Andersen from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, and he questions the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111172459	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111172504	Thank you. The question is: Does the Minister believe that it is a challenge for Danish companies that rely on foreign labour when the government demands that people from high-risk countries entering Denmark with a recognised purpose, including workers, should show a negative covid-19 test carried out no later than 72 hours before the time of entry when they cross the border?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111172537	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111172538	I would like to thank you for the question from Mr. Hans Andersen, because it gives me the opportunity to highlight the crucial importance of getting rid of the coronasmitten. I would like to stress, for the sake of good order, that the government does not, of course, impose stricter restrictions on migrant workers in order to bother Danish companies. Of course, there is no interest whatsoever in that. The government is taking action because they are necessary. Because we need to control the infection. We were already aware in the spring of the problem of migrant workers, and now, unfortunately, we have seen an increase in infection rates in the countries around us, and these are, in particular, outbreaks of infection related to migrant workers. The government has taken action, because it is absolutely crucial that we ensure that health and the economy go hand in hand. They're not each other's opposites. We need to control the infection, including the one that can come from migrant workers. That is why we demand that if you come from a high-risk country, you have to show a negative test. The government believes that the requirement for a negative test is a sensible response to a difficult situation for everyone. We want to stop the spread of infection, which in every way benefits Danish society and in particular the Danish business community.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111172651	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111172652	Thank you for that and thank you for your answer. Like the government, we're preoccupied with getting control of the corona. The question I have asked is that when we look beyond Europe, there are different rules at this time if you are a migrant worker and try to get to work. It is true that the government has introduced this test at the border where a negative covid-19 test has to be presented. The challenge is here, I think, that it can only be presented in individual languages. It cannot be shown in Polish or Romanian. And it is so that if you look at the many who come to Denmark and where they come from, they come from Poland and Romania, Germany, Sweden and Lithuania. My question is: why can a negative test, which is shown in Polish, not be accepted when you wish to enter Denmark? I think we should try to find ways to ensure that those who come here are tested, but also ensure that we can continue to get the manpower needed to keep the wheels running. I also listened to the government's concern. So I am trying to ask how we can ensure that we have as flexible a system as possible, which at the same time ensures that those who come here are not infected with corona.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111172844	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111172845	I am pleased and only have the experience that we share the basic view that, in this serious situation where the infection is increasing, especially unfortunately in a number of countries from which we have traditionally received a great deal of migrant labour, there is a need for extra vigilance. And we have tried to keep that vigilance in mind, while at the same time making it possible for companies to bring in the necessary labour force by showing a negative test. It is the Ministry of Justice that controls and is responsible for border control. That is why I do not want to know what is specifically accepted, but I would just like to add by saying that it has been opened up so that a quick test can be carried out and shown at the border crossing point and that it can also be accepted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111172954	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111172955	Thank you. In Germany, if migrant workers come to Germany, a lightning test, a quickest test, can actually be carried out at the border with the help of the German authorities. I understand that this is not how it works today at the border. There you must come and show this documentation, and there is my question: could it then be an opportunity that, in order to ensure smooth access and secure, still away, tests compared to those who come here, the authorities put up with facilities that allowed these lightning tests to be carried out?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111173045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111173046	But I must be honest and say that I have not been aware of the fact that the German authorities have provided these test facilities. This is, of course, something, like everything else in this difficult, but nevertheless very forced situation to deal with the coronasmit, of course, we would like to look at, that is, where you get other good experiences. We have tried to make a number of measures which are both easy to deal with for the individual migrant worker and also easy for the companies to deal with, and we believe, in fact, that this requirement for a negative test is far better than, for example, a requirement that you should go into yourself or the like, not that I will rule out that it can get there. Nevertheless, we think this is manageable both for the individual and for the company, but of course there will be specific challenges that constantly emerge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111173155	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111173157	Thank you. My call must be for the government to look at establishing such testing facilities at the border, and that leads me to ask why it is that there are some countries bordering Denmark and that you can come to Denmark from, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. It is of course important for the scale and the rules governing access to it by workers.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111173232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111173233	Well, at least I think that sir... Hans Andersen can be absolutely sure that it is certainly not to bother anyone that the definition is as it is. I think you've looked at where it is, you have most daily commuters. I know, I think that Mr. Hans Andersen among others. refers to some of the Baltic countries and among others. to Poland as well. And it is typically the case that migrant workers from some of those countries are here and are staying for a week, for some months, before they go home and then return home, whereas the border country is defined by knowing that we have many daily border commuters. It is down to the Danish-German border, and it is of course also in particular to Skåne, Halland and Blekinge. That's where they come from. But, of course, we are happy to continue these discussions with both Mr. Hans Andersen's party, but of course also the employers' and employees' organisations, all of which have strong interests, that we do this in the smartest and simplest way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111173339	Thank you for today's work to Mr. Hans Andersen and the Minister for Employment. To those who had to listen and who wondered that we forgot Question 35, I can say that it is because it has been withdrawn today. The same applies to question 37 to the Minister for Culture. That is why we move on to Question 38, which is today's last question. The questioner is sir. Stén Knuth from the Left, and the question goes to the Minister for Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111173406	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111173408	Thank you, President-in-Office, and thank you to the Minister, who is willing to answer today's last question, but that is the way it is. The question is: what is the Minister's view that the rules on GDPR are seen as a heavy burden of administration and bureaucracy in society, and does the Minister believe that it is reasonable to impose the same requirements on a small badminton club as on a large company or public authority?
ParlaMint-DK_20201111173434	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111173435	Thank you very much for the question. After all, this is an issue on which we have also promised each other to continue working as soon as the corona gives us some time not only to hold hands in further developing the administrative burden on society. And I look forward to calling the rapporteur's circle for discussions on the framework for the work of the association and voluntary sector, including in relation to the GDPR. But now that the question is here, I would also like to take this opportunity to point out that in autumn 2020 the Ministry of Justice launched a national evaluation of the data protection rules, also known as the GDPR. The evaluation consists of two tracks: a collection of experience on the one hand and a number of legal studies on the other hand; and it should also be indicated in the process plan sent to the Folketing. As part of the collection of experience, a wide range of stakeholders, including associations, have been consulted and the purpose of the collection of experience has been precisely to highlight the situations in which doubts about data protection rules are experienced in practice. In relation to the legal track of the evaluation, it will include: be examined whether there are general possibilities to limit the application of the Data Protection Regulation to small players, including, for example: voluntary associations. The evaluation work is therefore in full swing and is anchored in the Ministry of Justice, and this will be translated into a report which is currently expected to be published at the beginning of 2021 and thus, of course, can also be included in the discussions we will have in the rapporteur's circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111173619	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111173620	Thank you. There is no doubt that society at the moment, whether it is culture or sport or all of our good associations out there, is struggling to survive, and the corona has laid a duvet over the work that is going on in all our associations. But that is not only what the associations are about to be killed by, it is also of the rules and administrative trouble which the Minister also mentions and which we have put on a common agenda. That is why we in the Left also had an act of association up in connection with the election campaign last year, an act of association that came in this summer, with a broad agreement from the whole of the Folketing that we should continue to look at this. One might rightly say that the Left itself has been involved in deciding some of these things, but it should not be done to make things right if it turns out to be too much, and that is also what the Minister is aware of the work that the Left has on the agenda and which, fortunately, has led us to agree that we are going to have a look at it here. And when we stand here today, it's not really to scold each other, but it's actually to push on the agenda that we really want to challenge the GDPR rules and all the administrative trouble that our associations are dragged with out there in everyday life. But I am glad to hear that the Minister also supports the work that the Minister must then confirm, and I could listen to the Minister's speech, that the Minister does too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111173802	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111173803	Well, the Minister does so to the extent that the government does, and that is precisely one of the things that came out last time we discussed this in this Chamber: that this is something that needs an inter-ministerial approach, precisely because some of these rules lie like this. in the case of the GDPR, in the case of the Ministry of Justice. However, this is precisely the point about clarifying both the legal perspectives and also the collection of experience, which are precisely the two tracks which must try to bring together all the problems raised by the questioner and then also allow us to do so in a transparent way. That is why I share the impatience of the questioner, but I have to say that when it comes to data protection rules, it is also really personal matters, it is not something we always go around thinking about, but there are often values attached to the associations we are part of, and therefore there must also be transparency about what it is that you have to do if you are a volunteer, but also about how you are protected as a member.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111173909	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111173910	The Minister is talking about the impatience of the questioner. After all, we have both been in a municipality and have been at the top of it, and I think that it has sometimes been thought that the decision-making processes have been slow, and when we stand here in the Folketing today, I also think that sometimes there are no faster decision-making processes in the Folketing. But there are a lot of associations out there who're bothering with it. I myself am in a couple of associations where we find it very difficult to find volunteers to join the board of directors too, and that is because you have to provide all sorts of documentation, and some people are not really interested in that. So I'm really glad we're gonna get this elucidated, and that we're gonna have these GDPR rules challenged as well, while at the same time it's in balance with the money laundering rules, which are also part of all this work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111174001	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111174002	I am actually pleased that the questioner himself also raises the question which, unfortunately, has been raised because Mr. Unfortunately, Kim Valentin from the author's own party could not be here today. However, the question that was withdrawn is precisely about, for example. money laundering rules, and these are some of the rules that we could perhaps also have a dialogue with the financial sector about and discuss what we can do. After all, everyone agrees that there must be rules that are completely in place to protect against money laundering, but there too the associations are encountering real, really strict demands that equate them with completely different economies and quite different incentives, that is, more commercial incentives than that which drives the many souls out in society. That question is something that I am really only happy to see you stick to, and I hope that it can become a joint effort to make life easier for society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111174101	The questioner for his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111174102	Just what I'm thinking is what the Minister says about it being difficult to understand that the small association with a small flow of funds in the association has to pay really large percentage of fees to a bank to deal with these things. I am not after the banks and market forces, but I am after it that it is just really difficult for the associations, the small associations, a small chess club, to understand that it should be so troublesome. So I am really pleased that we are going to challenge everything around it so that we can have some freedom out there and some confidence back in the work of the associations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111174141	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111174142	Well, I just want to confirm that the same ambition is shared by the government. And again: it is precisely in order to keep the money laundering rules high where there is a high risk, where we see that stricter requirements and rules are needed, because unfortunately we have also had to see that there has been a need for it and that there is still a need for it. But the small association with the small money and the many volunteers could make life a little easier. I hope that we can also take the dialogue further on that. And then, to our common municipal background, I may be able to say to ordinary curiosity that I am doing my memoirs, which are called: Everything I didn't know about the state as mayor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111174224	Thank you, sir. Stén Knuth and the Minister of Culture for today's work. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201111174236	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for today's work in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 12 November 2020, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
