ParlaMint-DK_20200513100012	The meeting is open. I have received word that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist pr. Today's date is included in the Socialist People's Party Parliamentary Group. Members of the Folketing Ole Birk Olesen (LA) and others I have been informed that they wish to take Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). F 54 on the Government's proposal for a compensatory reform to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. The question has now been dropped.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513100049	The debate is open. Minister of Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513100109	Thank you. Today we are debating the proposal of New Citizens to reserve their citizens. We have free and equal access to education in Denmark, and as a Social Democrat I am very proud that this is something we have built up, where it is, no matter what you come from, and no matter what background and what money your parents have. It is a huge freedom for the individual, but it is also a very good investment for society. And an important part of it is the su. It creates an economic foundation, it creates security, and we must safeguard that. It must not be the wallet that decides if you can get an education in Denmark. And it is no secret that it has been such a great success that every year we spend a lot of money on su, and therefore it is also natural to constantly discuss how that money is spent. And, of course, how we organize that system in the best possible way must be debated. That is very welcome. At the same time, however, I must say clearly that the government cannot support the concrete proposal. There are several reasons for this. One is that it would be vertical, contrary to EU law, in which we should not discriminate on the basis of nationality. It is an EU law that I support. It has very great benefits for all of us that we have decorated ourselves in this way. It is not the case that as an EU citizen you can just get su. Special conditions must have been met in order to be equivalent to Danish nationals. It can, for example, be done. be working 10-12 hours a week while studying. But it is also a discussion that we need to focus on: how that part of our su-cooperation and su-system is arranged. It needs to be balanced. We in the government are very concerned about this, and we are also very concerned about this in the Su-Conciliation Group. On the one hand, we need a united, united Europe. We must have an EU in which the Danish model is respected, where social dumping is combated. However, we would also like to have a European Union where we can move around and where we share knowledge with each other. Nor do I entirely share the authors' concern about the loss of a Danish community of values if international students are training at home. I experience widely across the country that we see international students contribute knowledge, with things from the outside. They take home smarter, and we are left smarter in a lot of contexts. Many of them also contribute positively to the Danish economy. The total equation goes in plus. But it is clear that it is a matter of balance. However, there is also one element that goes beyond EU law, which means that I and the government have to say no to the specific proposal: it will have some quite violent consequences for almost 16 000 young people who are here in Denmark and have their affiliation in Denmark, without being Danish citizens • young people who are in many cases born here or who live here permanently with their family. It can also be young people who are part of the German minority and go to school in Denmark and thus get Danish su. It is young people who often have Danish schooling and youth education behind them and who want to study and contribute to Danish society. Today you can get su on an equal footing with Danish citizens. Are they supposed to take that opportunity away from them all of a sudden? At least I can't back that up. Free and equal access to education, including access to education, must apply to all children and young people born or raised in Denmark regardless of nationality. To conclude, as I put it: I think this is a good opportunity to take a relevant debate on our education system, on our Su system, but the concrete proposal cannot be supported by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513100610	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513100618	Thank you very much for your speech. I agree very much with the Minister when she says that it is essential that we have a su system which allows everyone, regardless of their background, to take an education. The minister is talking about balance. What is the Minister's balance in relation to the figures we have for how much money is being spent on su for foreigners? The figure has exploded dramatically, and an agreement has been made in the past that the amount should be kept below approx. 400 million kr. That amount has been exceeded, so what does the Minister think about it? We're gonna get the sum down to 400 million. kr. agreed? And if so, how does the Minister think we should do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513100700	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513100705	Thank you. It is, of course, an ongoing discussion with each other, because we have together formed a body of compromises in which we have set ourselves the point of reference that it should be exactly what the rapporteur is asking about, which is the balance we are striving for. It is clear that it is also my aim as Minister to respect that agreement and to fight for that balance, and I do. I have also promised that we will continue to do so, and I will continue to call for discussions on this, just as, of course, I will also follow very closely the figures to which the rapporteur refers. So, yes, balance is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513100736	There's one more question from Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513100741	Well, I'm glad to hear that you're going to work to keep the deal you've made on the amount. But can the Minister be more specific about what measures could be taken to achieve this goal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513100753	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513100755	I think that this is a discussion we should take with each other in the conciliation which we have jointly sat down and committed ourselves to participating in. I really think it is a good parliamentary way of working, that we have committed ourselves to each other, that we have jointly defined what is the right balance for us, but that we are also, of course, constantly following developments. At the moment, there is a state of emergency in which we see a very large shift as to whether we can at all train outside the country's borders. And these things, of course, we follow very closely. I think that this is a debate which belongs in the conciliation circle, but I would be very happy to take it there too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513100831	We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments and we are starting with the rapporteur's series. First, it's sir. Kasper Sand Kjær, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513100848	Thank you for the floor. The motion for a resolution here will require the government to change the rules so that Danish citizens are reserved. As the Minister said, the proposal runs counter to the EU's anti-discrimination rules. In addition, it is a proposal which will lead to a number of inappropriate consequences, and that is why I might as well start by stating quite clearly that the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal. Su is basically a question of solidarity. It is a question of giving all young people the opportunity to take an education, regardless of which home they come from. Su is an essential prerequisite for a pattern break, and it is an important prerequisite for all young people to have the opportunity to realise their potential, both for their own benefit and for the benefit of the community. When the citizens of other EU countries come to Denmark to study, yes, there are some of them who are entitled to su.a. by obtaining the status of migrant workers by taking work 10-12 hours a week next to their study. It is clear that this must not mean that the cost of the sugar is running out of hand. The conciliation circle has provided a framework for what we jointly believe to be reasonable to use funds for EU citizens, and even if that framework has been exceeded in recent years, and the authors of the proposals mentioned this just now, it is a development with which we follow closely and with which there is a large majority in the Folketing which has jointly committed each other that we have a responsibility to deal with. I really think we should put that part aside. I also believe that when we do this we will also be able to see that we really benefit enormously from many EU citizens who come to Denmark to study. They contribute to a diverse, dynamic learning environment in our education systems. In this way, we are helping to play each other good across Europe. Right now it is actually a surplus business for Denmark when foreign students arrive. When we attract some of the smartest heads from the rest of Europe and the rest of the world and give them an education, yes, there are many of them who stay in Denmark when they finish their education. They contribute to the creation of value in the private sector. They contribute to the community through taxes. I had actually understood that New Citizens was an economically conscious party, which also went up the bottom line, and if you did it alone, then su to foreign students would actually be a good business. If the proposal tabled here by New Citizens is adopted, it will affect many people who are resident in Denmark, perhaps born and raised in Denmark, but who have a foreign nationality. I really think it would be quite fundamentally unfair if young people who have lived their entire lives in Denmark and who have attended the local primary school and played football at the football club and are in every way well integrated and participating in the community would not have the opportunity to start an education because they cannot get su on an equal footing with their classmates from primary school. It would, of course, be a huge step backwards for integration, not to mention the historically poor investment; it would be to prevent young immigrants or descendants from carrying out training so that they can make a positive contribution both to their own lives and to the community. As I understand it, New Citizens believe that foreigners should be able to support themselves, and therefore I am really surprised that this proposal will put obstacles in the way of well-integrated foreigners and descendants getting training and a stable income base so that they can support themselves. For the consequence of this proposal will ultimately be to prevent a group from educating themselves so that they can support themselves, and it almost goes without saying that the consequence of this will only be more people who are supported by the community, more people who choose the wrong career in life. That is why this proposal represents in every way the wrong way to go, both for Denmark as part of a globalised world and for an EU where we can learn better together, but also the wrong way to go for integration in Denmark. That is why the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513101314	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513101318	But that does not change the fact that su for foreigners has exploded in recent years, even since that agreement was concluded in 2013 and that we actually exceed the target set. One of the things that has been done is, of course, that the number of English-language studies has been reduced in order to reduce the number of foreign students a little backwards in this way. It then says in the government's understanding paper with the supporting parties that that ceiling will be lifted again. How does the rapporteur think it will affect the size of the total su for foreigners in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513101356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513101400	But the Social Democratic Party is completely vigilant about the settlement we have reached with a broad majority in the Folketing, including that we must manage the cost of su for foreign citizens. So we are committed to finding a solution together in order to reduce the costs, and that is why we will not remove the ceiling that is above English-language education until we have something to replace, which may even be more effective.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513101423	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513101426	So the rapporteur says that we will not remove the threshold for English-language studies until we have come down below this 442 million. kr. Is that in agreement with the support parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513101438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513101442	Or before we have something better to put in place. It is not certain, of course, that this is the only solution to keep Su spending down, but we will have to discuss this together in the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513101449	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513101458	As has been mentioned, the last time we had a social democratic government, a ceiling of 437 million was introduced in 2013. kr., which was then found to be the tolerable limit of what was to be paid to su-beneficiaries from other countries, and it was then broken shortly thereafter. It might be interesting to hear what you intend to do now that you have been in government for almost a year. What are we really going to do? What are the tools you imagine when you are not going to vote for this excellent proposal? And could Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær in this regard consider telling the Danes when it was actually that we agreed that the EU could interfere in who we should pay out su to? I simply do not recall a referendum where Mr. Kjær's party has said to the Danes: When you vote yes now, be aware that there is 0.5 billion. kr. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme, and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance not involving public authority tasks outsourced by the Commission under ad hoc service contracts, and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance not involving public authority tasks outsourced by the So could we just get the information?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513101547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513101551	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt asks what tools we can use to handle the cost of su for foreign students. Today we have this ceiling on English-language education, and as long as we have nothing better to put in place, we must keep it. It was one which the former bourgeois government supported by Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's party came in, and that has not turned out to be enough either. Now we must follow developments over the next few years, and that ceiling must also be allowed to show its full effect, and if it does not work, we must look at what else is of tools in the box.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513101624	Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513101627	As I recall, the Prime Minister was named in 2013 when Helle Thorning Schmidt, but I may be the one who remembers wrong. What I wanted to see was: where is the Treaty, where is the starting point for this? What kind of treaty has the Social Democrats been telling the Danes that they vote yes, they get a bill of 0.5 billion? kr. to the citizens of other countries? Social democracy has voted in favour of all EU treaties, I believe. So when was that, sir? Do you know that you were out to report it to the Danish electorate?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513101701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513101707	The last part, whether it has been mentioned in the debates, that is to say any of the Treaties, is not something I should be able to understand. However, for the first part, it is true that the ceiling in the su-conciliation on how high the cost of foreign students may be has been agreed in 2013, but the ceiling on English-language courses that we have today was introduced by the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513101730	Then it's Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513101734	It is quite true that it was the previous government that created the ceiling for the English language. But what worries me right now is when I hear the rapporteur say that we can now wait a few years to see the impact of the restrictions made a year ago. Because we're across the border, we've been across the border last year, and we're crossing the border again. I was actually pleased to hear both the Minister and the rapporteur say that you support and stand by the agreement reached in 2013. So if you're going to do it, I guess it's about action now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513101803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513101806	Well, we stand by the agreement we entered into with each other in 2013 in the su-conciliation circle, which is why we must also discuss together in the conciliation circle if the ceiling imposed by the previous government does not prove to be effective enough. And I think that both the Minister and I are completely open to all the good proposals of the parties in the su-conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513101829	Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513101832	That is why the restriction was made in the English language, so it was an option. I would also like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that, if we do not find an opportunity, the agreement also states that the framework must then be kept together for su, and that means that the su'e must then be reduced for the Danish students. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513101849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513101852	Yes, my understanding is that this is what was agreed in 2013, and we must then discuss in the conciliation circle whether that is what we will do if we do not achieve the effect of the ceiling imposed by the previous government on English-language education, or we can find other tools to keep the cost of foreign students down to the level agreed in the conciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513101911	It's Ulla Tørnæs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513101915	Thank you. I understand the answers given by the rapporteur here that the Social Democrats are not concerned with what is in the understanding paper, namely that the defence initiatives that the rapporteur stands here and praises are actually being removed and that we have taken the step that we have taken and that this is not going to be removed. Isn't that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513101938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513101940	It is quite right that we stand at the su-conciliation. At the same time, we agree with the three parties with which we have agreed on the understanding paper, that if we can find other ways to comply with the su-conciliation and agree with the Su-conciliation circle, then we would like to remove the ceiling that exists over English-language courses and, quite frankly, because it is a bit clumsy and a little awkward way with a very simple grip to restrict foreign students. I hope that together we can find a wiser way of doing this, but before we have that tool, we must, of course, stand by the way it is now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513102021	Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513102024	Well, now I didn't really ask about the su settlement. It would also have been quite a surprise if the Socialist rapporteur were here on the floor of the Parliament in connection with the discussion of a motion for a resolution from the New Citizens' Party and terminated the su-conciliation. So, of course, that's not what I was asking. On the other hand, I asked about the common understanding paper between the government and the left, which clearly shows that the government has agreed with the left, that the defence initiatives which I now hear the Socialist rapporteur stand here and praise will be removed. And that is why it is very logical that we should ask: is it to be understood that the Social Democratic Party is actually scraping that part of the understanding paper?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513102105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513102109	No, it has to be understood that within the next three years we hope that we can find better tools in the box together than today's ceiling on English-language education. As long as we cannot do that, we stand by the compromise, but we hope that we can find new ways over this period of government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513102128	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Kasper Sand Kjær. There are no more brief comments. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513102143	Thank you. In fact, I fully agree with the Minister for Education and Research when she emphasizes here from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament today that Statens Uddannelseslødningen helps to create security, and that in Denmark, of course, it must never be such and never be such that it is the wallet that determines whether you can complete an education. I fully agree with the Minister on that. With the motion for a resolution which we are debating here, the new citizens will reserve the right to vote for Danish citizens. The background is that citizens from EU/EEA countries, on an equal footing with Danes, are entitled to su if, with a minimum of 12 hours of work per week, they obtain status as what we call migrant workers. This right became, among other things, a right. Decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union back in 2013. I shall start with the conclusion: the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution. Denmark belongs in Nordic co-operation and, above all, in the European Community. It is and will be a huge advantage for Denmark to be part of a larger community. Therefore, we cannot support the introduction of legislation that is directly contrary to EU law. And, as I said, we are also part of Nordic co-operation in the Nordic Council, which has free movement at its core. Once this has been established, we in the Left are following very closely the development of the cost of su for migrant workers, i.e. EU/EEA citizens who, according to existing rules, are entitled to Danish su and who, according to the latest inventory for 2018, have rounded over 500 million. kr. in public expenditure. This means that expenditure on migrant workers also exceeds the ceiling on expenditure on migrant workers laid down in an agreement back in 2013 when we set it at 437 million. kr. for 2018. In order to comply with the 2013 Su reform, the previous government implemented it already mentioned a number of various protection initiatives. This concerns, among other things: on a reduction in the number of English-language training places in vocational and professional colleges. According to the latest survey, this suggests that it has had a positive effect on the number of migrant workers who can obtain the right to Danish membership. We made a corresponding reduction in English-language training places in university studies, where we could see that many went back to their home countries after completing education, which of course is inappropriate. That initiative was decided in 2018, i.e. by the previously left-wing government, and thus does not reflect in the figures from the latest statement of expenditure in 2018. We introduced these defence initiatives in order to keep expenditure under control and because the 2013 su agreement requires the government in office to present defence initiatives at all times if the expenditure exceeds the set ceiling. Unfortunately, however, we find that the present government has not respected this. Following the presentation of the statements, where expenditure is continuing to rise, the Minister has failed to make any proposals as to how we can keep expenditure under control. And not only that, I also believe that the Minister withheld the information from the Folketing, since the statement was not forwarded to the Folketing in due time. At the same time, the document of understanding agreed by the government with its support parties states that the VLAK Government's defence initiatives must be rolled back, as was also demonstrated by the debate a few moments ago. Most recently, in a consultation convened by the Left, the Minister said that the government would await the results of even the same defence initiatives. There's a logical conclusion in these two statements that have been lost to me. That is why I am also looking forward to the question debate which the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance have called the Minister for 27 May this year. Perhaps we can get answers to our questions. In any case, I would like to make it clear that the time has obviously passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513102718	Yeah, it was. But there are questions, and that's first Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513102723	Thank you, President, and thank you for the Left blowing to battle. It is a good thing if we can at least jointly reduce the number of welfare benefits that Danish taxpayers have to finance for the citizens of other countries. However, I do not think I hear the battle cry as clearly from Mrs Ulla Tørnæs as from other Leftmen. I've got one of them. Seen Mr. Søren Gade on 6 February this year in Jyllands-Posten called the current arrangement of the su-rules a regular roof-table. After all, buffets are currently banned in reality, and perhaps we could also consider closing this buffet, which the Danish taxpayers are currently making available to all the Eastern Europeans who come here and get a small job of 10 hours a week, with Mrs Tørnæs's sympathy. Could we close the buffet, Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513102826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513102830	As my rapporteur's speech made clear, we believe that, contrary to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and Mr. Mr Messerschmidt's party said that Denmark belongs in the European Community. And under no circumstances will we be involved in adopting legislation in this House that is contrary to EU legislation that we have helped to adopt elsewhere. So it's gonna be mr. Morten Messerschmidt not me to go in the breach too. When Mr. Morten Messerschmidt asks, in return, if we can't close this buffet, I'd just like to remind Mr. Simpson. Morten Messerschmidt said that back in 2016 the then narrow Left Government came up with a plan, the overall plan for 2025, where there was actually a reform of our Su system, and with that reform I am quite sure that it would not be as attractive as it is today, for migrant workers to come to Denmark and to have su as a goal for it to come to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513102937	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513102941	But it doesn't hold Mr. Søren Gade from, 4 years after Mrs Ulla Tørnæs thinks the hole has been closed, to call the rules a roof-top table. The last time I checked it out was sir. Søren Gade and Mrs Ulla Tørnæ's member of the same party, but it may of course be that they pursue two different policies depending on the country in which they are located; I do not know whether that is, as it were, what is planned. It is interesting, moreover, that Mrs Ulla Tørnæs believes that she herself has been involved in adopting the rules, since she referred to a judgment of the European Court of Justice of 2013. I have no memory that Mrs Ulla Tørnæs or anyone in the Left has been judges of the European Court of Justice for that matter, and that is why I would like to put the same question in conclusion to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, whom I put to Mr Tørnæs. Kasper Sand Kjær earlier: When have the Danes been given the opportunity to decide on this? After all, half a billion is a lot every year. So when did Mrs Ulla Tørnæs tell the Danes that this was the consequence of voting in favour of an EU treaty?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513103022	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513103027	Well, that's very funny to hear, sir. Morten Messerschmidt is delighted about whether the Left should act as two parties, one in the European Parliament and one in the Folketing. Well, I'm so familiar with the fact that sir... Mr Messerschmidt has spent many years in Brussels and is therefore apologized for all the time I understand that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has not followed what has actually happened in Danish politics back in 2016. Unfortunately, the overall plan mentioned above was not implemented; it was abandoned by the expansion of the then narrow Left Government with the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance. But Mr. Morten Messerschmidt probably didn't discover down there from Brussels.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513103110	Then it's mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513103114	Thank you for the floor. I understand that the rapporteur is concerned about the high level of expenditure. Does the rapporteur think that there should be su for foreigners? It is only after the European Court of Justice has decided that we should do so, in the case of working those 10-12 hours and thus becoming a migrant worker. Then the rapporteur is concerned that the European Court of Justice is thus going in and using parts of the legislation to introduce rights, for example. For su?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513103155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513103158	What concerns me in this connection is in relation to the ceiling set by a broad majority in the Danish Parliament back in 2013, where we found that it was a reasonable ceiling that allows young people from outside to come to Denmark and contribute to Danish society. It was a ceiling that we agreed to set and we can see that that ceiling is not being respected by the current government. I'm worried about that. I am genuinely concerned because I find that the present government does not give a damn what the Folketing has decided in the past, at a time when it is possible to write in an understanding paper something that is completely contrary to agreements entered into in the Folketing. It worries me, and that's what I'm following. That is why I have had the Minister in consultation on the ceiling and on what will be put forward by defence initiatives, and I have also raised a question debate so that we will have the opportunity to discuss these issues at a later stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513103307	Peter Seier Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513103312	So the rapporteur thinks it's quite fine that we spend this 442 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513103328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513103332	In fact, I agree with my colleague from the Social Democratic Party, sir. Kasper Sand Kjær, who stressed what it would mean if it were for us to adopt the resolution tabled here by the new citizens. Then it will mean that the Norwegian boy, who was born and raised in Denmark and has Norwegian parents, would not have the opportunity to get su when he takes a higher education. I don't think that's fair. So... President Thank you very much, I apologize, there are just a few seconds left) Thank you for that, President. Thank you very much for that. So I think it is fair that we are operating with a ceiling, but it is totally unreasonable that that ceiling should not be respected by the current government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513103417	When you take such a deep breath, the President thinks you're done, but there was a little more left. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513103426	Thank you. I hear the rapporteur say that years ago the Left had a proposal for a su-reform that had solved this. And it is very true that by weakening the su you will be able to make it less attractive to come here. That is not the wish of the Danish People's Party in this context. What I would like to hear from Mrs Ulla Tørnæs about is whether the Left will help to ensure that either an income requirement is made, so that you actually have to meet certain requirements and have been in the country for x number of years in order to be able to get a little similar to what you have on the folk pension or, alternatively, that you may have to say that more needs to be done in English language education, because we agree that we must comply with the limit that we jointly, at DF's request, made back in 2013.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513103512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513103515	I would like to stress that the reform of the sugar sector, which was part of the overall plan, was to a large extent about the restructuring of our sugar sector. It was not a deterioration for the individual recipient, as Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl describes it. I think it would be interesting if we could have an open debate on how to set up our Su system so that it will be even better than it is today. I look with light and light for protection initiatives, and so did I, as I had the great privilege of sitting over in the Ministry of Education and Research, and I was the first minister to take the step to restrict the English-language courses. And if the Minister, with his experts over in the ministry, cannot come up with other and better proposals, then there is nothing to do, that is the way we must go, and then we must look at what will be further of the reaction possibilities in relation to English-language education. But I'm looking with light and light for other defense initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513103626	Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513103631	So I would just like to follow up on the question whether Mrs Ulla Tørnæs agrees that it is not fair that we should pay for education and su to foreign students for Danish tax dollars and that we should seek a system that makes it possible for us to reserve su and tax paid education to Danish young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513103651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513103655	I fully agree with the questioner that it makes no sense for us to provide a taxpayer-funded education system and even pay su to those who come here and who then return to their country of origin. It can never ever be Denmark's task to carry out welfare tasks for other countries. I fully agree with that. On the other hand, I am also in favour of having the opportunity as a foreign national to come to Denmark and carry out parts of an education or the whole education. I believe that Danish society also wins by that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513103736	Thank you to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we are going to go further in the rapporteur's report. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513103800	Thank you to the bourgeois for raising the debate. This is a very clear example of where the European Union is going completely wrong. We have a very good system in Denmark based on the principle that all young people should have equal opportunities to take an education. Therefore, all Danish young people have the right to both free education and support, i.e.: As part of the package, the Community also pays for it through the tax. We in the Danish People's Party think this is a good system that we would like to safeguard; it is also a system that is much better than in most other countries. Then when the EU and EU law go in and judge Denmark to give all young people in Europe the same right as Danish young people, the system overturns. As I have said, we have a system in Denmark which is far better than in most other countries and therefore it will be attractive for young people from Europe to come up here. You can understand that in itself, but it is only quite unacceptable when it is we as a country that have to pay for their education. In the Danish People's Party we have been fighting this case for many years. We have tried to introduce an income principle similar to what is available for the retirement pension. We have tried to create restrictions to abolish English-language courses to a greater extent. Basically, this has gone wrong, as has been mentioned a few times, since 2013, when the European Court of Justice started making judgments in this area. Following the first judgment in 2013, which defined the right of so-called migrant workers to apply for an education and to receive an education, we could well expect in the Danish People's Party, when we made the agreement, that this would go wrong, that this would get out of hand. Therefore, the 2013 agreement included some defence initiatives, including: the limit, which has been mentioned several times today, and which we have fortunately set, so that after all we have a stopper in the bottle. It is far more money than we think should be spent, but there is, after all, a demand and an agreement which, after all, I hear from both the Minister and the rapporteurs that this agreement will be respected. We have an ongoing challenge of having it respected. I find it difficult for the Minister and the Socialist rapporteur to say that we have to wait a few years and see how things are going, because we have crossed the line. And we just have to get to grips with this and do something about it as soon as possible. It can be said that part of the agreement is also that, as the amount increases, it must actually be taken from the su we use in general. So in principle we should go in now and put the su' down for all students to keep the limit. We do not think we should do that in the Danish People's Party; we think we should ensure that we can give a proper amount to the Danish students. When we look at the development, it has gone from approx. 3,000 in 2013 to almost 12,000 in 2018. A few years ago, we saw some educational establishments where people went out and advertised in Eastern Europe that you could get to Denmark on these rules and get an education. Fortunately, we stopped doing so, and I am very pleased that we could use the agreement we had there by the Danish People's Party to say that we have to put a brake on it. When Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, as Minister a few years ago, started to restrict English-speaking education, I had doubts about how much the Left wanted it, but we had to respect the agreement we had and that is why that border came in. Therefore, it also seems completely baroque when the current government writes in an agreement paper with its support basis that the restriction on English-language education will be removed. Well, I don't see any other way to secure this limitation. Well, at least we're going to have to change the su system. So you have to go ahead with this and get to grips with it to make sure that we stick to these limits. In the Danish People's Party, we want us to decide for ourselves who we invite. One thing is the Danish youth, and there can also be some really good people in the world that we would like to invite. We did so in the past, because of course there must also be exchanges, but the exchange is that Danish young people go out and foreign young people come here. All right, we'd really like that, too. But the thing about spending over half a billion. kr. in the case of foreign young people who come here because they have a right to do so is not in order, and we must put an end to that. So, in conclusion, I would just like to say that the Danish People's Party supports New Citizens' proposals and hopes that they will be able to put a brake on this development at any rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513104241	There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Mai Villadsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513104249	Thank you. In his speech, the rapporteur mentions one group of students, namely those who come as migrant workers. That is the 12 000 mentioned by the rapporteur. But there is also another large group: up to 16 000 young people who were born and raised in Denmark, who for many feel enormously Danish, who have had the same upbringing as me, but who would not be able to get su if New Citizens' proposals went through because it is only su to Danish citizens. In his speech, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party does not affect the position of the rapporteur in relation to young people. Should they be entitled to su or not according to the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513104328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513104331	We think it is really important that we continue to work on this track to say that we have to limit these expenses to foreign students. How can we do that? One thing is to say that it is only for Danish citizens. Then we certainly have a demarcation there. Alternatively, if we can create a principle of income that is about one can say that one must be born and raised here in Denmark, then we can talk about it. However, we need to ensure that the principles of protection that we display and we use are durable.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513104400	Mai Villadsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513104403	Thank you. I believe that our welfare society is based on a principle of free and equal access to education, and that is precisely the principle that this proposal from New Citizens, I believe, will destroy, destroy, by not putting children and young people who may have been born and raised in Denmark but who do not have the same color on the passport. I think this is completely unreasonable, and that is why I also find it interesting to know how the Danish People's Party feels. Will you vote 'yes' or 'no' to this motion for a resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513104439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513104443	We shall vote in favour of this proposal on the basis that we simply want to draw this debate in the right direction. We want to be sure that we will have a restriction which will also apply, and we believe there that the saying that it is Danish citizens will last. So that's why.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513104455	Then it's mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513104458	I would like to sign for the support of the Danish People's Party. I'm glad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513104505	The rapporteur? There were no comments. Then we move on to Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513104516	Thank you. I understand that the Danish People's Party will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by New Citizens' Party, and then we have to take the view that we then agree with the content of the proposal. Then I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that, if this motion for a resolution were to become law, it would be so, among other things. This will mean that the Danish minority in northern Germany, many of whom are German nationals, will no longer be able to receive su to study at Danish educational institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513104539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513104543	I think it is absolutely crucial to have this debate, and what I am waiting for right now is, in fact, that the government should come up with the safeguard measures to which the government is committed in relation to the agreement we have from 2013. And when the government doesn't want to, we have to do something else, and that's why we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513104557	Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513104601	I have to take that as if the rapporteur would accept that this would mean that the Danish minority in northern Germany would no longer be able to read in Denmark and receive su. But then I'd just like to ask you something. Because the rapporteur is very hard on the fact that something has to be done and that the government is not doing enough to live up to the su-conciliation. But is it the position of the Danish People's Party that we should now lower the standard for all students in order to get below the ceiling we have agreed on in the Su-conciliation Group? Or what are the Danish People's Party's proposals on how to live up to the compromise we have jointly reached?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513104631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513104634	The position of the Danish People's Party is that we must do what we can to ensure that we pay only su and education to Danish young people. In order to do so, we may need to make some safeguards, and it should not be putting the su down, either in one way or another, and what the agreement says is right. But we would prefer to extend the limitation in English-language courses, for example. as a road that seems to work than that we will begin to slow down the su. We really want a su which has a sensible size for Danish young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513104701	Then it's Astrid Carøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513104705	Thank you. I understand that the Danish People's Party supports this motion for a resolution, so that only Danish citizens can receive su in Denmark. And as has been mentioned, 16 000 young people are born and raised today, or at least raised in Denmark, who receive su. And then all I have to do is listen to the Danish People's Party, if you do not recognise that education is a very good means of integration to make these young people become part of Danish society, even though they do not yet have Danish citizenship. What are we going to do about this problem if they are not to be able to receive it in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513104734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513104736	Education is a very important tool, but the key thing for us is that we get this limit set and that we get some protection initiatives done that last. That's why this is one of the roads, and if that's what it takes, then that's what it takes. We would very much like the government to live up to its obligations and to make proposals on how to ensure that we keep these borders and the agreements we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513104801	Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513104804	Thank you. I agree that the Danish People's Party is really sorry that we have to pay out su to migrant workers, but I just think that we have to recognise that there are 16 000 young people who in my optics are Danes but who do not yet have Danish citizenship and who are receiving su in Denmark today, and I do not think that the rapporteur answers what is going to happen to them, what is going to happen to the German minority, what is going to happen to the young people who are well in the process of being integrated into Danish society, but suddenly cannot receive su because of this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513104832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513104835	But if there is no other way, it will be a restriction for them too. I would like to see us making agreements that followed up the agreement that we already have, but as long as there are no other proposals, we are going with the proposals that we can see drawing the right path. And that is why we support this, and so we wait for the government to honour its commitments to come up with real initiatives to ensure that we can live up to the agreement that is in force from 2013.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513104859	Thank you, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. There are no more brief comments, and then we go to Mrs Katrine Robsøe, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513104914	Thank you. There are many good reasons to oppose this motion for a resolution. Clearly, this is the case with the European Union, as many have already mentioned, but I would like to highlight two other obvious reasons why this resolution is very far away from common sense. Firstly, we have international students who are migrant workers and who have qualified for this. They contribute to the Danish state's unemployment fund and to high-quality education. International students contribute to the creation of even better educational and research environments. I think we should be happy to be able to attract smart and talented young people, and then we should undoubtedly be better able to maintain them after the end of education. As a small bonus, I can also inform you that many of these international students actually do more than Danish also take scientific studies and take some of the degree programmes that are sought by the Danish business community. I am convinced that we can be better at maintaining them in Denmark and therefore also increase the economic plus for investment in international students. So they give a plus in the Treasury, so unless New Citizens will let both Danish companies and the Danish Treasury miss out on the smart heads coming to Denmark, for example. In order to take a Master's degree, this is certainly not a very good proposal. Secondly, in Denmark we have lots of people who are not equally Danish citizens, but who are in all other ways Danish and contribute to our society. For example: refugees and children of refugees must have equal access to education, and they must not be put on a number of behind all others, and it is simply not up to us to prevent them from taking an education, because we want to promote integration through education and not put up obstacles for them. Right this morning, I wrote with Ali from Aalborg. He came here in the sixth grade and had not yet become a Danish citizen when he was going to take his higher education, but with this proposal he would have had much harder to achieve his dreams and come to contribute to society with the talents he has. Today he researches and teaches at Aalborg University, and I think that should make everyone in here both smile and be happy on behalf of Ali and Denmark, but also to understand why it is important that there is access to su and equal access to education. There are still many other things in the field of education that I think we should also address in this area, and it certainly does not come as a shock to the Minister of Education that I will tirelessly continue the fight for education to count as employment when you want Danish citizenship, and of course the people referred to as 7-3 refugees must also have access to free higher education. That is the direction we should take, and that is what I think is common sense. To conclude, it is certainly no surprise that the Radical Left does not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513105238	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513105242	I think it is a remarkable downgrading of the Danish university environment in particular, which the Radical Left here embarks on, when it is believed that the only reason for attracting foreign students, or the only way to attract foreign students, is to provide them with Danish welfare benefits. So, I assume that Mrs Katrine Robsøe is aware that in the recent international reports, the University of Copenhagen is the highest ranking university in the whole of the European Union. We are surpassed by some British and some Americans, but within the European Union we simply cannot find anything better than the University of Copenhagen. So I would like to ask Mrs Robsøe whether Mrs Robsøe can imagine that if you are sitting in some Bulgarian outcast and have the opportunity to come to the University of Copenhagen, you would say: 'Oh, I'm leaving, because I can't get Danish su'. Would it not be a little more concerned that professional profit is the best that can be found in the European Union at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513105339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513105345	It is simply not true that I have said anything at all about Danish universities not being good enough in themselves. There are plenty of people who come here, including from abroad, who don't get a lot of money, and we should be very happy about that, but I also think it is really cool that some people come here, including from other EU countries, and take an education, and then I would really like to take part in looking at how we keep them better, how we make sure that what they contribute is also after education has ended. I also believe that when we get foreign students here, whether it is on exchange or on full-time education, it helps to improve our degree programmes. I think that has a total value.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513105426	Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513105429	I am absolutely convinced that Mrs Robsøe is right about that. I think the international exchange environment is very good in any academic context. I do not know whether I will use the expression Mrs Robsøe makes, but it may be, it is awesome, I would like to confess that. What is not so cool is, of course, when Mrs Robsøe, in her speech, connects access to Danish welfare services directly to the possibility that Denmark can attract these brilliant heads from around Europe, because it is in this that the degradation of the Danish education system exists. In other words, Mrs Robsøe and the Radical Left are simply in the misconception that if you sit somewhere it does not have to be in Romania, it could also be in Malta, or what do I know and look around the continent, it is access to su that determines which university you choose, and there is not much academic in that, is Mrs Robsøe?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513105509	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513105512	Sir. Messerschmidt, whatever it may be, I would say that I simply do not think I have said that, and then I just want to say that I believe that Danish universities have a huge attraction because they are good universities, but what we are discussing here is whether non-Danish citizens should be placed at a disadvantage and not have access to the su, and I simply do not think that we can support that in any way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513105540	Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513105543	Thank you. In the light of the rapporteur's speech, I have a very, very simple question. Back in 2013, I was negotiating the su agreement with the rapporteur's chairman, Morten Østergaard, and some protective measures were described in relation to these migrant workers, among others. an amount limit. It was written that if the amount was exceeded, we would have to deal with it within the su framework and that the government would have to work actively towards the European Union in terms of redefining the rules and so on. etc. I just want to know if the Radical Left still respects that agreement and, of course, along with the rest of us in the agreement, will ensure that it is respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513105622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513105627	Of course, we respect the conciliation that we are involved in. I have also talked to the rapporteur about that many times before. But there is no doubt, and that is probably what the rapporteur would like to ask me afterwards, that there is no resemblance between this ceiling that has been created over the number of English-language courses, and that we should really like to be involved in maintaining our su-conciliation, but there are many other things, I think we can try to look at, and I hope that we can do that in the Su-conciliation circle, because there is no one who knows the training courses out there who thinks that the ceiling that has been created here is particularly clever. It is extremely rich; it does not take into account how to develop along the way. I hope that we can find a better solution, because I simply do not think that what has been done here is very clever.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513105718	Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513105721	So smart or not smart, I don't know. It seems that it might work to some extent. That is why I really would like to ask you because it is true that it is in the understanding paper of the current government that the restrictions on English-language training must be removed. If the rapporteur just wishes to confirm, and I would like to take part in discussing everything else, that what needs to be put in place must still live up to the agreement, and that means that there is still a limit on the amount of money that can be spent on migrant workers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513105752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513105755	I would like to confirm once again that, of course, we support the conciliation that has been made and, once again, that this can be done without agreeing to the ceiling on English-language education. I think it is a pity that from in here people are going in and making rules about which language can make sense just to be spoken in a single education and pressure them to take that into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513105820	Here Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513105823	The rapporteur now mentions a number of reasons why the rapporteur considers this to be a bad proposal. I would like to know whether the rapporteur recognises the issue. Does the rapporteur think that it is a problem that we are seeing this extremely rapid growth in the outlying regions? A very large proportion of foreigners who come to Denmark to study leave the country again. It is a minority of those who, over a life cycle, are a good business for Denmark. Does the rapporteur think it is a problem that it is growing as much as it does?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513105852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513105856	I think that we should work for the European Parliament, and I say this in my rapporteur's speech, too, that we will maintain more boats directly after the end of education, but also work to ensure that those who stay here want to stay here for longer, because it is also a challenge for some of those who stay here to return home after a few years. So how can we increase the retention rate for international students? That is basically common sense, because those who have taken a Danish education should in every way be great for our companies to get employed. In fact, I think that if you look at some of the initiatives that are being taken between education institutions and industry and the social partners, you can see that these are precisely some of the things they have to look at. In fact, I fully agree that we must, of course, maintain more. We can only agree with that. I hope we can work together on that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513105954	Peter Seier Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513105958	Now the rapporteur did not reply quite clearly to my question as to whether the rapporteur thinks that it is a problem that expenditure increases as sharply as they do. Clearly, if there were more people in the country, the economy would look different, but there isn't. We can see that. It is clear, then, that there are probably also some who come here precisely because they can get a very generous benefit and study in Denmark. So I would like to ask again: does the rapporteur think that it is a problem that it is growing so violently? The rapporteur's party is involved in a conciliation which will keep the amount at a lower level than it is today. What steps does the rapporteur intend to take to reduce expenditure if the rapporteur considers this to be a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110046	Now it may be that I do something that you shouldn't do from up here I'm still relatively new but I'll try to mention some of the things that I think are important to look at. Could one not look at whether we could do something that makes sense in relation to the level of retention, so that we could help to ensure that we got a little more consistency in relation to who comes here? I certainly hope that this could be one of the things we could try to look at together, because I actually think it is very important that we have international students, and it is also important that they contribute. That already gives us a plus today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110123	Ulla Tørnæs, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110127	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Radical Left, and therefore also one of the supporting parties to the present government, and thus also one of the parties to the agreement behind the understanding paper, what she is thinking when the Social Democrat rapporteur stands on the floor of the Danish Parliament today and says: paragraph 1, we have no other proposals for defence initiatives than the defence initiatives introduced by the previous government, and paragraph two, therefore we intend to maintain the defence initiatives. What does the rapporteur of the Radical Left, who is behind the paper of understanding, suggesting that these very defence initiatives should be removed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110218	It says in the understanding paper that the ceiling on English-language education must be removed, and I do not think the government is in any doubt that we believe it should at least. It is written down and we will also stand firm on it, and I will also say that I hope then that we will be invited to the negotiations and talk in the Su-Conciliation Group so that we can actually get started on this talk about how we can do this smartest and best.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110249	Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110252	When does the rapporteur expect that passage from the understanding paper to be fulfilled by the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110301	As soon as possible, I think I'll say. In fact, I do not have a better answer here to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. But if the Left wants to help look at how we can pressure the government to come up with better initiatives than those taken during the last government period, then I would like to help push for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110317	There are no more brief comments. So we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Astrid Carøe, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110329	Thank you. I would like us to talk today about how we strengthen the su for everyone in Denmark, how we can give students a better living basis. I think that is important when we discuss su. Instead, we have to talk today about how we limit the possibility of a group of citizens in Denmark getting su. With New Citizens' suggestions, foreign students will have worse conditions for living, living and studying in Denmark. Of course we cannot support this in the SF, and there are several reasons for it. The first reason is self-evident and has also been mentioned several times: this proposal would run counter to both the prohibition of discrimination by EU law and the free movement of persons within the internal market, and in the SF we cannot and will not support a proposal that goes against EU rules. In general terms, we believe that foreign nationals should be given the opportunity to have su. The Su contributes to creating equal opportunities for all students in Denmark, and this is important, and it must continue to do so for everyone regardless of nationality. It is important for me to stress that young people who have grown up in Denmark but who have not yet acquired citizenship must, of course, be able to receive su. The foreign students who come to Denmark and read not only represent an expense for our society, but they contribute a lot as they study, and in all they give on the bottom line a plus. That is why we also strongly disagree that the opportunities for foreign nationals to receive asylum should weaken solidarity or our community of values as set out in the proposal. For us, the foreign students who choose to study, work, settle and take root in Denmark also contribute to creating the society and community that we have today and that we in the SF are happy and proud of. In the future, therefore, we must continue to ensure that there are skilled foreign students coming to Denmark, and that is what the universities and the business community are also asking for. Therefore, on the basis of this, the SF cannot back the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110537	There are brief comments, first from Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110542	Thank you. When I look back at the agreement we made in 2013, SF, as far as I remember, is also part of the deal. That is why, in the light of the rapporteur's speech, I also have to ask whether the SF supports the restrictions contained in that agreement, in other words that there is a ceiling on how much money can be spent on migrant workers, and whether the rapporteur thereby also recognises that there is a challenge right now because the limit has been reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110613	Yes, SF is in the conciliation circle and still backs up and also recognises that there is a challenge we need to look at. But we do not believe that the solution is to write off all students in Denmark who do not have Danish citizenship, su, nor to have this ceiling on English-language courses, which we have also said in the understanding paper that we want to remove.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110637	Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110639	But if you want to remove the tool that we can say that previous governments have seen as what they could find and which might work, how will the rapporteur and the SF ensure that we actually live up to that agreement to ensure it? Because, in order to achieve this, fewer students must come here, and there must somehow be a limit or a brake. So how would SF suggest we do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110708	We are in the conciliation circle working on whether or not we can find other solutions, and we support the conciliation and that we must therefore, of course, stay below the ceiling. But we think that this ceiling on English-language education is a clumsy way of doing it, and we look forward to some other proposals from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110727	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110729	Thank you, President. I noticed that the rapporteur said that it was a good business for Denmark that foreigners come here and study, and I have no reason to dispute that. That is more the correlation between the fact that they are coming, and then the su payments, I would like to hear if the rapporteur could clarify a little more closely. After all, we heard earlier from Mrs Ulla Tørnæs that the rules we have today are based on an EU judgment from 2013, and foreign students came to Denmark before 2013, just without receiving su. So I would just like to hear from Mrs Astrid Carøe whether she agrees that the good business that foreign students may be for Denmark has nothing to do with access to su, but that it may be because Denmark is a nice society to live in and because we have a high academic level, but not because we have to be one, to use a Left expression, take a self-table for the whole of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110827	As Morten Messerschmidt has said before, for example. The University of Copenhagen is a very good university, and that is why I think there are a lot of people who come here to study at the university and become skilled academics. However, our clear starting point is that we have to live up to EU law, and when this judgment came in 2013, we have to follow it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110847	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110848	Yeah, yeah, I know. I mean, the left loves the European Union. It's the only way to get socialism dragged down the throats of people. But what I am asking is when the rapporteur equates the economic advantage of foreigners coming here with access to social benefits. So I just ask: where does the rapporteur find that correlation? Because I don't see it anywhere, as long as it was probably a good business for Denmark too, before the EU decided that we should pay 0.5 billion. a year to students from other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110921	For example, some of the protective agents that have been made are: this ceiling on English-language courses, which limits foreign students to come here and read, and that is what we want to avoid. That's why I'm saying that we want to remove this ceiling and find some other ways to make sure that we stay below the ceiling we've agreed in the Su conciliation circle. But it has to be said that it is positive that, despite the fact that we are giving su to foreign students, which I fully agree with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt thinks is a bad idea so still away has a plus on the bottom line. Then we must do something quite right, including in terms of maintaining them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110957	Then it's mr. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513110959	Thank you for the floor. The rapporteur starts by saying that we must strengthen the su for all, and I am not surprised that the SF is usually good at finding proposals that cost money. But does the rapporteur not recognise that, in this case, in extending the Danish benefits, we are talking about the sugar, but this also applies to other areas of foreign policy, so it makes it more difficult for Denmark to maintain the good system we have here, simply because there are more people who will be able to receive the benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513111037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513111039	We must, of course, live up to the settlement we have made in the su-conciliation circle, and that is why we must stay below that ceiling. But when I say that I would like to improve the diet for all students in Denmark, it is because, for example, I. would like it to follow the wage trend forward and not be firm as it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513111054	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513111056	But does the rapporteur think that it is a problem that we have such a high cost of su for foreigners? I know that you are committed to the conciliation that you have reached, so you must stick to it, but does the rapporteur think that this is a problem? Would the rapporteur like it to just continue to increase?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513111114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513111115	I welcome the fact that foreign students on the bottom line are a plus for Denmark, and then we would like to live up to the settlement we have, with this ceiling on how much we spend of su for migrant workers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513111128	Thanks to Astrid Carøe. There are no more brief comments, which is why we move on to Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513111137	I am a Danish citizen, born and raised in a village in West Jutland in a nuclear family in a small house on top of a hill. 2 km away, below the hill, my friend Mia, who was born in Denmark, lived in the same primary school as me, lived in a core family and went to football in her spare time, but she was not a Danish citizen because her parents had fled from the war in Bosnia. We were two girls with almost the same upbringing, but who would still have had completely different opportunities in the future if the New Citizen's proposal that su should only be given to citizens was implemented. Imagine if it became a reality; think how crooked a society we would have and how bad integration we would have. Nearly 16 000 young people today get su, although they are not Danish citizens, and they do, because they were born in Denmark or have come here with their parents before they reached the age of 20. I am glad that they do, because I believe that Denmark should be a country where your future prospects should not be defined on the basis of your parents' purse or country of origin. I think that would be a fundamental breach of the social contract we have, namely ensuring equal access to education, regardless of your economic background. That's what the su helps to secure. This proposal from the New Citizens' Party to remove the possibility for anyone who is not Danish citizens would have serious consequences for our country, and I would like to give some examples of people who are currently taking education or have taken it in Denmark, even if they were not citizens. It is Ali, for example, who came here from Iran in 2000 and who last week defended his doctorate at Aalborg University, where he is now teaching. It is Khalid who came here as an unaccompanied refugee from Somalia and who would not have had anyone who would have been able to pay for his education if he had not received him as a software engineer and has worked as a software engineer for 13 years. It is Amela who, at the age of five, came from Yugoslavia with unskilled parents and who still broke the social heritage, got an education and is now a cand. in Danish and history. It's David who came here with his parents when he was 19 and who became an auto mechanic. This is Fatima, who came in 2011 and became a sosu assistant. This is my friend Rainau, who at the age of five came to Denmark, took primary and secondary school, went to university and now works as a street planner to prevent juvenile delinquency. It is Adis who came here in 1993 and who went to Holbæk Teacher's Seminary and is now a teacher in Frederikssund and is looking forward to the 9th class coming back next week. It is Washma, Rialda, Maryam and Armina, who are doctors and nurses, and some of them are currently working with covid-19 patients. And last but not least, it's Rahima that I know, who goes to Nyborg High School and is 19 years old. Four years ago she fled from Islamic State and came to Denmark, and right now she is taking an education to ensure a better life, but also to get a job in Denmark in the long run. These are all those that this proposal would deprive us of the opportunity to get an education, because it is not necessarily some who bring parents with a large purse in their back pockets. And I think that would be deeply damaging to Denmark, because we need to secure a country with good integration where there are equal opportunities, regardless of your parents' purse and country of origin. That's why Enhedslisten can't back this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513111606	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513111610	Thank you. The immigration policy we have been pursuing over the last few decades has created a great many problems. Now the rapporteur only deals with non-Danish citizens who have been born and raised here or who have come here as refugees. But what about the second part, that is, when we talk about migrant workers? What is the rapporteur's view that the European Court of Justice has the opportunity to oblige us to give su to all those who want to come here? After all, the unitary list is usually a party that is critical of the European Union. What does the Enhedslisten think about the European Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513111649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513111651	Now the 12 000 migrant workers are, in fact, a smaller part of those who will be affected by this proposal, but there is no doubt that we in the Enhedslist firmly believe that the EU's rules should not trump the Danish, that the free movement of workers and the rules that the EU makes in this respect should not be allowed to impose Danish laws and regulations. This also means that there is a difference between how we treat students who come here to read, from third countries or from EU/EEA countries, and I think that is wrong. So we think that they should be treated equally, but I also think that the debate that has taken place here today actually shows that all migrant workers are a so-called good business for Denmark. They pay back taxes compared to the su they get. So I am really happy that they are in Denmark, but there is no doubt that I think it should be based on Danish laws and regulations and not rules adopted in the EU.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513111757	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Peter Seier Christensen the word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513111801	I am glad to hear that Enhedslisten believes that it is Denmark that should decide the rules in Denmark, and not the European Court of Justice. Would that mean that if we had made another proposal that intervened against a ruling that had come from the European Court of Justice, then the Enhedslisten would back it up?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513111825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513111826	Well, that depends on what's in it. As a starting point, I also think it may be very good that there is a possibility that foreign students will be given the right to earn su in one way or another, but it has to be based on rules that we adopt here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513111843	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513111846	After all, it was a touching review of Mrs Mai Villadsen's life story that we received here as a rapporteur's speech and all the acquaintances she has made herself. It's nice that you can get to know each other that way. I would just like to ask: has there been anything that has prevented all these people from seeking Danish citizenship? For long periods of time Mrs Mai Villadsen and her party have cast citizenship to the right and to the left, so has there been something that has prevented these people from seeking Danish citizenship? And if not, why in the world is it really our problem that they have failed to do so, since they now feel as incredible Danish as Mrs Maj Villadsen's florissant life story is evidence?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513111934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513111936	I do not really know whether they feel so Danish or not, but they are here at least and contribute to society with work and education. I also do not know about their citizenship for the time being, apart from my friend Mia, who has become a Danish citizen. I guess a lot of the others are, too. But rules have been made here in the Folketing, many even, which tighten up the rules for when to become a Danish citizen. So there are a lot of young people who have to go through many years and wait for them to succeed, and during that period I think they should have the opportunity to take an education. Imagine what would happen if they didn't have that opportunity and what they would do. I think that's a horror scenario.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513112019	Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513112020	Then it could be exciting if Mrs Mai Villadsen would tell us who is saying that. So who has suggested that foreigners should not study at Danish universities and get Danish su and go to Danish primary schools? I haven't seen it. If someone has some idea that you would refrain from reading, if you could not get the trunk into the Danish welfare fund, then of course there will be that connection. But has anyone suggested that foreigners should not read in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513112045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513112047	This proposal is, of course, about the fact that you do not have the right to receive it and, as you know, it is a prerequisite for a great many people to be able to complete their training. In fact, I think that my rapporteur's speech made a very good point. But this proposal is about 16,000 young people who live in Denmark with their parents and who would not be able to get su. It concerns the Danish minority in South Schleswig; people who have come here and married Danish citizens; people who have been here for more than 5 years; refugees and many others. They would not be able to get su because they are not Danish citizens. I think that is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513112127	We thank the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513112136	Thank you. We have a generous education system with our su here in Denmark, and we also have a very strong education system, because everyone has equal opportunities for education, regardless of what they come from in economic hinterland. It is also based on the fact that those who pay into our common fund will benefit from it, even in the next generation, and we are very pleased and proud of that in the Conservative People's Party. As has also been said by the previous speaker, there are many foreigners here whose parents are here and who actually also pay taxes to our system and who are not, in fact, Danish citizens, and so their children are not, but they go to our educational institutions. We would find it deeply problematic that many of them were not allowed to have the same opportunity for an education as Danes. Now, as has been mentioned several times, we also have an EU judgment of 2013, which says that you cannot get su if you are only here to read, but that you can get it if you are a migrant worker. You can't get su if you're only here for a semester. So there are rules on how to get su as a foreigner. Then one could say, like Morten Messerschmidt, that they will come here and that they can just come and read and then not get su. That may be the case, but we cannot go beyond the EU law, which is why we cannot vote in favour either. Because we respect the EU legislation that is about this. In addition, we are not so frightened to have foreigners inside our country either. We then have a protection, which has been set, a ceiling on su for foreign students and for having English-language courses. It has also been discussed here in the past and whether it should be removed, and it is, of course, part of the conciliation circle. We would rather look at how we can do it, to strengthen those programmes where we actually also need some of the foreign students, and we could talk about having a differentiated ceiling on English-language courses. For yes, there are quite a few foreign students who contribute net positive to Denmark, and this is especially so in our IT programmes, and it is our engineering programmes. In fact, if you did not have the foreign students, you would not be able to maintain that standard at the IT University. So there is a good opportunity to say that we actually need to attract foreign students here too, and they actually contribute up to DKK 500,000 on average. for an 8-year period, and they also encourage how they can maintain them, both with student jobs and with Danish teaching etc. So we would much rather look at this, i.e. how to differentiate the ceiling with su for English-language education, and that is actually something we expect here to make a proposal on. So yes, we are voting against the proposal for several reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513112508	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513112510	I noted, of course, that the Conservative rapporteur said that foreigners in Denmark were not frightened, and that the Conservative People's Party was behind the Aliens Act in 1983. But at that time there was a legal basis for the madman's work, if I may put it that way, and we do not have it now. After all, we are paying up to 0.5 billion. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. There one might hope that the Conservative People's Party, as a party that believes in the rule of law, law and law, will not mention God, the king and the country of origin, because that is a few years back, but at least the rule of law would insist that when we pay out benefits, there should be a majority behind it. But there isn't here. That decision was given by the judges. That is why I would just like to ask Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll whether she considers this to be particularly reassuring in the context of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513112615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513112616	If I understand the speaker, sir. Morten Messerschmidts, question, I feel confident that a judgement has been made by judges in the European Union that we must not differentiate around our Su system. I'm quite familiar with that. I have confidence in the Court of Justice. Where we should rather catch a little in our own bosom, we should look at how we can recover the mismanaged su-debt that is now flourishing and it is over 600 million. kr. There we should really put in and get some of that money back, and we should also tighten up on how we lend money to students.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513112655	Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513112656	No, what the 2013 verdict says is not that we should not discriminate. What the 2013 verdict stated is that you get access to Danish su already by having weekly work of 10 hours, and it may be as an apple seller or juggler, or whatever it may be, something quite colorful and that is what is the problem, I would say to Mrs Ammitzbøll, namely that we have a court which constantly bite by bit without any democratic legitimacy making it more difficult for us in the Member States to limit the number of payments. Would Mrs Ammitzbøll also think it would be okay if a sentence were passed tomorrow which said that it was only 5 hours?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513112736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513112737	No, I would not think that was okay, and one must at least look at what the basis is for why it should be. But I think it is a very hypothetical question. I don't think that's gonna happen. So we have some framework here, and what we can do within that framework is • and I would suggest that we can differentiate positively by having Danish language education. For there are programmes where foreign students do not contribute positively to Danish society, i.e. the fact that we have English language programmes. They must make a positive financial contribution. In this way, hopefully, we can also put up a little counter-arms in terms of who we give our su to. There may then be foreigners who would like to study some courses that do not provide any socio-economic. They should be welcome, but it could be that they do not have the same interest in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513112827	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513112829	Thank you. We would be happy to discuss whether the requirements can be differentiated, even in relation to the English language. What I just need to confirm quite squarely from the rapporteur is that the Conservatives respect the 2013 agreement which actually sets a concrete ceiling on how much we can spend in su for migrant workers. So will Conservatives work for us to respect the ceiling as part of what we are going to do, regardless of what we otherwise make of agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513112901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513112902	I have to be sure that I understand the question very precisely. When you talk about a ceiling, what exactly is the ceiling referred to?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513112909	Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl for his second question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513112914	The 2013 agreement simply adds a crown and ear ceiling. That was what for 2018, as far as I remember, was 426 million. kr. So that is the ceiling on how much we can spend in su for migrant workers. So will you respect the fact that it is a ceiling that must be kept, no matter what else we make of agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513112935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513112937	Yes, we are part of that conciliation circle and we must respect that ceiling.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513112945	Thank you to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll There is one more brief comment from New Citizens. Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, there is one more brief comment we need to make. I was the one who made me guilty of a misunderstanding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513113006	Thank you. Do I understand correctly that the rapporteur says that if it were only five hours' work, the rapporteur would not recognise it as sufficient, because it is not at all unlikely that this could be the case if a new case were brought which concerned a person who worked five hours? If the European Court of Justice then decided that he or she was also entitled to su, would the Conservative People's Party not recognise that judgment?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513113035	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513113036	As I said before, we would look at that question if it comes, but I think it is a very hypothetical question. So I do not think there is any reason to comment on that here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513113046	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513113048	I don't think it's hypothetical. It has been seen in other cases that much has been done under the 10-12 hours, so that this could easily happen. Then we can take it more generally: does the rapporteur not think that it is a problem that the European Court of Justice can give access to our services based on turning people into migrant workers in general so that we do not have it under control ourselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513113107	Well, it can be a challenge for our Danish system that we have some very special services. After all, we also have it about minimum wage and in other areas where we are working to get a special status. Because we have a unique welfare system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513113123	Thank you to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. Before we move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance, I'm gonna let you know that someone's been complaining that it's too cold in here. But we can't start the ventilation for the Corona, but we're trying to do what we can. Until then, you have to get by with a wool sweater or something. Here you go, sir. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513113154	Thank you for the floor. New citizens' proposals run counter to EU law. Several rapporteurs have already said so. After all, we are critical of the judicial activism that exists in the European Union, and we have repeatedly supported proposals which maintained this scepticism, but we are in favour of EU law in the Liberal Alliance and therefore we cannot support the proposal. But now that I have the floor, I would like to make a few comments on this proposal. As it is today, Danish students can go out into Europe and study without it being associated with more trouble and trouble than such things always are, including here in Denmark. It is, of course, the reciprocal effect of the principle that allows foreign students to come here as well. The fact that as a student you can travel out into the world to good universities and be in a professional community there and make a career in Denmark or abroad, we are in favour of. Research and academic education have always been international. And always may be such a big word sometimes, but when it comes to research and international education, it is actually true. Aristotle himself was not from Athens. He was from Macedonia, but he wanted to go to Plato's academy, and then he went to Athens as an exchange student. Plato liked him, and then he stayed there and put his life's work in a city where he did not actually have civil rights, but where he was welcome with what he could now offer there. You didn't get su in ancient Greece, as far as I know. Nevertheless, this was how the system worked. And ever since then, research has been international. In ancient times it was in Greek, in the Middle Ages in Latin, and today it is in English. We should not help to break down or complicate that system in Denmark. All our Nobel Prize winners in science have been internationally oriented. They have either travelled out into the world or have made excellent international environments in Denmark, or they have done both. Niels Bohr is a good example of that. And they are just shining examples of what it should be like today; how research and academic education should be international and how international networks should be created for the benefit of both research and individual participants in research. We are also part of the conciliation circle, and we certainly do not think that the system is without problems. There are evil tongues which say that su is not so wealthy people who help the children of wealthy people to get a higher income from life. It's not entirely wrong. So, of course, you can try to change the system so that it becomes more socially fair. We believe that the interaction with su and the taximeter can create something that I simply do not know what is called in Danish, but which is called perverse incentives in English, i.e. wrong incentives to create artificial education that attracts students most for dowry's sake so to speak and not for education's sake. And we also recognise that there must be reasonable proportions in the payment of su to foreigners. That is what is in the agreement itself. But we believe that the forum where these issues need to be clarified is the conciliation circle, and therefore the questions should not be resolved by means of the proposal here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513113611	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513113615	Thank you. Of course, I do not disagree that it is healthy to travel across countries and study around the world, of course not. This proposal is not, of course, about the fact that we want to ban foreign students from coming to Denmark and studying. It's about us cutting them off from su. Does the rapporteur really think that it would be to the detriment of Denmark if foreign students were not given su? Does the rapporteur think that it would prevent a lot of well-qualified foreigners from studying in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513113647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513113648	I do not, in fact, object to a fair level playing field. I spent 2 years in Philadelphia at the University of Pennsylvania on a scholarship, and there I was admitted on the same terms as the American students, and got, as far as I remember, approx. $800 a month to go there. And they were not linked to counterclaims of any kind. I think that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513113717	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513113719	Can the rapporteur not imagine that there might be some students coming to Denmark precisely because of the benefit they receive, and especially if they come from a country where the standard of living and wage income are very low and will therefore attract some students who, in fact, do not come here primarily to study but to receive the benefit?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513113736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513113738	Yeah, I mean that. That's also what I was referring to when I was talking about these wrong incentives to do popularly said scam programs. I am very sceptical about this, and I would very much like to take part in the conciliation circle in looking at how we can avoid it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513113756	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, but then we have a privateist who has joined us, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, who by the way comes from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513113806	Thank you, President. Something interesting has happened with EU resistance over the last 30 years. When I was a kid, the first referendum that I remember was about the Maastricht Treaty in 1992... Holger K. Nielsen was quite a hero at home with us. We, like him and his wife, said no to the Union because at that time the European Union was on the vile face of left capitalism. Something's happened today. Even the Enhedslisten has become such a mondomen and conform when you see them voting down in the European Parliament. Why is it that the European Union suddenly fits into the glove of socialism? It may be because socialism is, in its essence, an internationalist confession to an hatred of the nation state. That is why it fits awesomely into the European Union's hatred of the nation state, which is certainly not called socialism, because it smells a little too much of old totalitarian regimes. No, that's what they call anti-discrimination. But if we are not to discriminate, there are no countries either. If we are not to know the difference between what is Danish and what is German, what is Swedish and what is Romanian, what is left of the Europe of the countries of origin which, after all, Europeans founded at the western falcon peace some 300 years ago? Not much. In this we have seen the movement in which the enthusiasm of the European Union has slowly increased on the left, but perhaps something on the right fell for good reason, because the anti-discrimination which has become the 11th Brussels commandment today does not just destroy the nation state. It also fundamentally destroys the solidarity that holds a people together. When you belong to a family, a generation, a people who for centuries have fought to create the free, equal and solidarity society, which is now the Danish one, while at the same time you can see that people without a right, without a contribution and without any legitimate right can suddenly claim welfare benefits, it is clear that there are Danes who think: Why now? And the only answer that the Socialists can give is that seven years ago a sentence has been passed before a court which most people do not know and understand and whose judges live a completely secluded life from the reality of Luxembourg. You happen to have come to the conclusion that if you have ten hours of work a week, if there is ka-ching, then there are payments at the cashier's office or to say what Søren Gade from the Left says in the European Parliament: then it is a mere roof-top table. So, in addition to destroying the nation state, in addition to destroying the solidarity which is, as such, the foundation of our welfare society, the EU is also destroying the rule of law in this area, because if the left wing could find a majority in here at Christiansborg for this crazy arrangement that people who have 10 hours of work should have paid welfare benefits, one could live with it. I have the deepest respect for that. And I would say that I have the greatest experience of being voted down. My whole life has been almost a long tirade of democratic defeat. I feel great about that. That does not change the fact that I still mean the opposite of the majority. But I accept to be voted down because I know they have the people behind them. In this case, in the EU case, the people are not behind the decisions, because the political decisions taken by the European Court of Justice have no democratic legitimacy. And that is what the left in their bloomy stories about the sadness of childhood will not go into at all, and that is what makes this matter intolerable and embarrassing, and that is why it is revealing every time we speak the European Union that the left has not understood what the rule of law, what national state, well-being or people's context really means. We are faced with a situation in which up to half a billion Danish tax dollars are sent every year to people who are not Danish citizens, and we have no idea if there is a majority behind it, because if the Folketing is even asked about that matter, the high judges down in Luxembourg would start wrinkling their noses, and if there is something you cannot, if there is anything that can do to get into the bad company, it is to criticise EU judges. However, the fact that EU judges are pursuing a consistent policy against this Parliament, against our constitution, against the Danish welfare state, is not much criticism of. It is socialism anno 2020. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513114304	You're welcome. There are no brief comments. Welcome to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513114315	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate. I think this has been an exciting and committed debate, but unfortunately I have to say that there is no majority in favour of New Citizens' proposals that state education aid should be reserved for Danish citizens. However, I would like to thank the DF for supporting the proposal. I am, of course, annoyed that there is not a majority of the parties in the Folketing who support the proposal, but simply accept that the cost of su to foreign students increases. We in Denmark have very generous training support, because access to education must not be conditional on the parents' economy, but must be an opportunity for everyone. It is founded in our Danish community of values. The possibility of public support is part of the social contract between the Danes, and it simply cannot be extended to the whole world. There may be many good reasons why foreigners can study in Denmark and that Danish young people can study abroad, but giving foreign students access to su and thus public support is unnecessary and harmful to Danish society. Su to foreigners is an example of how EU rules are abused to undermine the Danish community of values. The cost of su for foreign students has almost sixfold in 5 years, after an EU judgment in 2013 said that EU citizens have the right to su in Denmark if they only work 10-12 hours a week because they therefore get the status of migrant workers. In 2013, 88 million were paid out. DKK, while the figure in 2018 had exploded to staggering 513 million. kr., i.e. over 1⁄2 billion. kr. Figures show that about half of all foreign students in Denmark have left the country four years after the start of their studies, and that only barely one in three of the foreign students in Denmark contribute positively to the Danish Treasury over a life, while two out of three are a deficit business. In the past, therefore, the Danish Parliament has recognized the problem and tried to resolve this major problem. The vast majority of the Folketing thus reached a settlement in 2013 which introduced a ceiling on the total cost of foreigners of 442 million. kr. However, it was already exceeded back in 2017, which led the then government to introduce a ceiling on the number of English language study places, but the problem remains unresolved. The status is that Danish su for EU citizens is completely out of control. We cannot afford to continue to waste the Danes' tax dollars. It is quite unreasonable to the Danes. Simple projections of population growth and demographic development clearly show that the welfare society comes under pressure in the short and long term, and a large majority of foreign students do not make a positive contribution to the Treasury. We have to put our foot down, and this isn't just about su. In Denmark, we have a system in which we have decoupled receiving benefits from funding, i.e. tax payments. The model cannot continue to exist if foreigners are given the right to come to Denmark and receive benefits without contributing accordingly. The European Court of Justice will therefore be able to undermine the Danish social model in the longer term. We have to deal with the problem. We need to give priority to what Danish tax dollars are to finance. What's the alternative? How long does this have to go on before we solve the problem from scratch? Let us now make it clear that EU citizens who wish to study in Denmark must do so for their own resources. That's common sense. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513114704	We say thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mai Villadsen from the Enhedslisten, De Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513114710	Thank you. With all due respect, I simply do not think that the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution deals with the whole scope of this proposal. A great deal is being said about EU citizens and so-called migrant workers, but it is a minority of them who will be affected by this proposal. Those who will be most affected are, after all, another group. They are the ones who came to Denmark with their parents before the age of 20, or who were born and raised in Denmark. It is young people who read and are part of the Danish minority in Sydslesvig; it is people who have come to Denmark because they have fallen in love and have married a Danish citizen. They are the ones New Citizens want to take away the su and thus, for many, the opportunity to train themselves. Why does the rapporteur not say it as it is, namely that it is they that New Citizens want to take away the sugar with this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513114809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513114811	We have, of course, put forward this as a comprehensive proposal for all foreigners, so that the su is to apply only to Danish citizens. We think so. We believe that benefits should generally be for Danish citizens. Now we have had an irresponsible immigration policy for many decades, which means that we have a great many people in Denmark who are not Danish citizens, but they have the opportunity to seek Danish citizenship. However, I believe in principle that we must insist that public services should be provided to Danish citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513114840	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513114842	It is paradoxical that the rapporteur is talking about an irresponsible immigration policy when the proposal made by the rapporteur to the House today is precisely irresponsible. I think it would be deeply irresponsible that young people who come here as refugees, or who are born and raised in Denmark, cannot get su, cannot train themselves, because this will lead to horribly poor integration. This will lead to a culmination in juvenile delinquency. It would be very damaging to Denmark. It is a harmful policy for foreigners, and that is clearly what I believe, as New Citizens with this proposal stands for.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513114915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513114917	I now believe that we already have plenty of problems with, among others. Foreign crime, and that is precisely because we have let in a lot of people that we should not have let in. That is the irresponsible immigration policy. If any of these young people want to apply for Danish citizenship, then they have the opportunity to do so if they otherwise fulfil the conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513114939	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kasper Sand Kjær, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513114943	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to point out to the rapporteur that the consequence of the New Citizens' resolution would be that young people from the Danish minority in northern Germany, who are not Danish citizens, could not take an education in Denmark and receive su. That would, of course, be the consequence of the resolution. I would just like to hear what the rapporteur has to say about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513115007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513115009	After all, we have had to put forward a proposal which covers all foreigners, because we generally believe that the benefits should be for Danish citizens. The reason we are doing this is precisely because we have brought in so many people who have made the problem as big as it is. If we hadn't let so many people in, we probably wouldn't have stood here and had to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513115033	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513115041	Now we are standing here discussing it and having to deal with what the consequences of this resolution would be if it were adopted and turned into a legislative proposal. One of the consequences would be that young people from the minority in northern Germany could not take an education here. Another would be what Mrs Mai Villadsen from the Enhedslisten said, namely that we would have plenty of young people who are today in Denmark without a Danish citizenship who would not be able to receive su and thus, for the most part, would not be able to complete an education in Denmark. How does the rapporteur think this would affect cohesion, the Community and integration in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513115107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513115109	I insist that we still believe that public services should be for Danish citizens. We believe that being a Danish citizen gives a special status. So we think it is right to implement the proposal as we have put it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513115126	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Education and Research Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513115144	The negotiations have been opened. The first to speak is the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513115213	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for the floor and for the opportunity to discuss how to create the best possible framework for people with disabilities in our education system. I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising this important issue. I know both the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party as some where this is very close to the heart, and therefore it is also a welcome opportunity to discuss with each other together how we can make these conditions as good as possible on an ongoing basis. The proposers want the government to ensure by law that students with disabilities receive an individual and holistic curriculum at the start of their studies. The proposal is justified by the need to avoid students having to seek exemptions for the same disability several times during the course of the study. You can only agree with that. I and the government agree with the intention to do so, because of course there must be room to be disabled in the Danish education system, and the system must be able to accommodate and respect and deal with the challenges that a given disability presents to the individual student. That's why we have to think continuously about how these frameworks are going to be the best possible. However, the fact that we cannot support the motion for a resolution is due to the fact that this underlying objective, which is so good and right, has in fact already been achieved through the law on non-discrimination in the labour market. Higher education in Denmark is already responsible for offering appropriate and individual adjustments, including for example: also special test conditions for students with disabilities from the moment they are made aware of the disability. Students should therefore only report their disability once. We have all sorts of local examples of this over time could have been better managed. Therefore, we have also recently sent what is called a shepherd's letter to the higher education institutions in the Danish Agency for Research and Education, where we focus on this problem. And the institutions have obtained a checklist to support them in that work, so we are sure that what is provided for in law, what they are entitled to, is actually what they are experiencing out there. There are some balances in this discussion where you can't regulate yourself out of everything and where a disability isn't always just a disability and where what you need help can apply in some situations, in some rooms, in some subjects, but not in others. That is why some flexibility is also needed. It is not the same as getting bothered and bureaucratic and feeling like leg buckles. And I think we can find that balance if we are allowed to actually be carried out in reality as it is intended. The authors also want the student to be able to receive a full extension of the course of study as a result of a disability. In fact, basically, I do not want to change the general conditions for being able to have su, namely that it must be organized as a full-time exhibition and that some study activity needs to be met. In fact, I think that the requirement to be an active student is quite reasonable. As we have said earlier today, this is an important tool in supporting free and equal access to education, and the aim is, of course, for students to actually complete their education. Individual consideration must be taken into account, as was my point from the past, but I would be worried about a system where there would be no room to be ill or where, in addition to the concerns you have all the time, you should have the financial concerns on top of them. However, I believe that the current Su rules also take this into account. You can apply for su additional clips if you are delayed, e.g. because of illness. You can seek several times for the same illness or for a disability if it flares up or worsens. I think that is sensible, as a rule, on the basic principle of full-time education and study activity as a requirement for su. I also note that that part of the proposal, with a cautious estimate, will cost somewhere between 70 and 180 million. kr. annual. So, to conclude, I would like to repeat that I have very much sympathy for the good intentions and for the desire to actually strengthen the framework for our disabled students, so that it will be a real opportunity for disabled people in Denmark to take up an education. But it can be done within the framework of what lies if we get it implemented properly and properly. On the one hand, in relation to the study plans and on the other hand in relation to the su, the sensible guidelines we have are about requirements for study activity and full-time study and the flexible solutions we have jointly put on top, about the possibility of seeking additional supplementary clips, etc. Thank you for your intentions. Thank you for the opportunity to discuss this important issue, but the government cannot support the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513115829	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513115834	I then attached myself to the last comment that the government cannot support the proposal as it stands, because then I hear that there might well be some adjustments that we could work on. For the Minister says that the legislation is good enough and that the framework is good enough, and at the same time we hear about students at least I hear that from out there, who do not see the framework as good enough, who see that they have to prove over and over again the handicap they have, that they have to apply for exemption over and over again. Even if you know in advance that they can only study in three quarters of a time it's kind of like getting out and having a flex job, then you have to spend longer on it... they can't be sure that the su that they need is actually there. I mean, there's a framework that makes us just ask them to live with some leg buckles that there's no reason for. Because it helps to reduce the number of young people with disabilities who receive the education that I think we all think they should have. So I would like to ask the Minister's assurance that we can work on this further so that we can actually create a framework for students with disabilities, which means removing some of the stones on their way that are not necessary and that just lie there because we have some rules that are not quite good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513115954	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513115956	You have my full assurance that I would like to have input and discussion on this on a regular basis. This also applies to the specific examples. For it is clear that we can do some things with the legislation, but as I also say in my speech, we are covered here by the legislation. If, however, there is a reality that is different, then it is really important that we bring it in, and therefore also, once again, thank the rapporteur for constantly contributing to it. There's, for example, there's... also an opportunity to send out a shepherd's letter to clarify how this law is actually to be implemented and implemented in reality, so that what we politically intend to do in the legislative work that lies is also the reality that our students with disabilities are experiencing, on which we so much need to provide a framework, so that they actually get some education on which they can build a life. I think that's important to all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513120056	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513120058	I believe we agree that this is important. There's one thing that could make a big difference out there. When you as a disabled person now apply in one place and may have to change to another place of education, you have to search again and again and get the documentation over and over again. One of the things that is being called for is that one could say a digital file, which data could be inside and which the student could then send on, if one has to change education, or if one has to move on, so that all information is collected and one is not about to collect it all again, but that one actually has a framework that allows the exemptions that have been granted in the past to be seen, and that it is transparent, so that we do not put it all over the student with disabilities, but actually say that we have a framework that helps to deal with these information things, as it is very much. Could we not agree to continue working on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513120149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513120150	I think it is a very noble and sensible thing to work towards ensuring that things are not bureaucratic, that things are not troublesome, that there is security around the framework, and that the whole effort and potential work that is involved in some of it should not be imposed on the individual time and time again. I would very much like us to work for that, and hence also the shepherd letter to the institutions, in relation to those places where they unnecessarily ask students with disabilities for things, then have to stop doing so. Because we need this to work with, including for the individual student.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513120233	Thank you. These are no more brief comments, and I would like to welcome the rapporteur of the Social Democrat Party, Mr President. Kasper Sand Kjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513120245	Thank you. The motion for a resolution, which we are discussing here, proposes a legislative proposal to introduce a holistic curriculum for students with disabilities. It is proposed that the curriculum should include specific frameworks and considerations which may contribute to the best conditions for students with disabilities to complete their studies. Social democracy supports the basic intentions of the resolution, and it is fundamental that education is for everyone and that it is essential that we constantly strengthen and improve the opportunities for education for all young people, including those with disabilities, disability or chronic illness. It is really at the very heart of our social model that we have an education system that can embrace all young people, regardless of their challenges or background. That is why I am very pleased that the Danish People's Party, with its motion for a resolution, is raising this debate. Because this is an important debate. Because there are young people with disabilities today who meet an excessively rigid and inflexible education system that cannot accommodate them, and that is not good enough. Students with disabilities who face challenges in the education system must, at worst, interrupt their education because they experience that their disability becomes an obstacle to them. That is not right and we are doing both them and society a disservice when we do not help them properly. So I both recognise and respond to the challenge that the Danish People's Party raises with the resolution, but I do not believe that the resolution that lies here is the right way to go. As far as higher education is concerned, it is already the responsibility of the higher education institution to offer individual adjustments to the course of study, so that special consideration is given to the particular needs of the individual student. It can be in the form of special test conditions, aids and other. There is also the possibility today that educational institutions can draw up individual study plans for students with special needs in order to create the best conditions for a good course of study. But people are different, disability is different, and education is different, which is why I basically believe that it is better to give the individual institutions the freedom to find solutions that also make sense for them and for the individual students in the individual education, rather than that we here at Christiansborg detail the tools they need. On the other hand, I think it would be obvious that we are discussing how we can make our institutions take on the responsibilities that rest on them to make sure that young people with disabilities get through better than they are today. Should we make better use of the incentive structures that we know today, or should we go new ways to ensure that our educational institutions also fulfil their responsibility to be inclusive and to create roads for students with disabilities? I hope that we can continue this discussion after today, and I believe that it will also open up a more fundamental discussion on how to run our education programmes. But back to the proposal, because the authors of the motion also propose that students with disabilities should be able to receive the full amount of the training, which can be expected to be extended and, as I understand the proposal, the general conditions for receiving it will also be met, including in particular: the requirement for study activity. I just think it should be borne in mind that it is already possible for students to apply individually for supplements to their diet corresponding to a delay, for example. due to illness or disability. After all, the Ministry of Education and Research estimates that the impact of this proposal will be somewhere between 70 and 180 million. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. That would be nothing less than irresponsible. So, against this background, the Social Democratic Party cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513120704	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513120706	Thanks for the speech. I therefore agree that there are a great many things that they can, must and should do in the institutions, but one simple example is that when you are young with disabilities and start an education, it is quite typical that the things that need to be ready for study start are not ready, because for good reasons at the individual educational establishment you only know who has entered where relatively late; they simply cannot reach it after the admission process etc. etc. concluded. One of the things that lies in our proposal is to say that if you, as a young person with disabilities, intend to apply for an education, you can actually make some of the assessments in advance. If you are blind and need to get the study material in a certain way, it should not be difficult to know in advance, and that means that it can be inserted, and the studies or approvals, or whatever it takes, may actually be made before you arrive at that you are busy, so that you are sure it may be, it is not first or second, but third priority, you get that the study site immediately has the material and the approvals, or whatever it takes. These are also the sort of things that lie in it, and there I think we have to do some things in addition to what we can just impose on the institution in order to allow the institution to actually carry out the task. Will the Social Democrats be in on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513120834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513120834-2	I think we should discuss this in greater detail. If there are things we can do to make it easier for the institutions to fulfil their responsibilities, let us discuss it. At any rate, I think it is crucial that we stick to the fact that it should be possible for students with disabilities, disability or other disabilities to complete an education and, as a starting point, to complete any education, and that is why it is the educational institutions that are responsible for ensuring that there is the framework for each student's education programme that makes it possible. I just think it is important to maintain that we cannot choose one solution here, and then it is the one that applies to all students with a disability in all types of education. We also need to ensure that there is local freedom so that it can fit the needs of individual students, while at the same time keeping a very clear commitment to keeping educational institutions up with their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513120929	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513120930	Of course we have to keep the educational institutions to that, but what we just do not have to do is put all the responsibility back on the young person with disabilities, because then it will be uphill, and then it will be off again. I understand that the funds for the extension of the sugar industry are not being set aside immediately, but does the rapporteur not think, on the other hand, that if you have a disability which makes you really only able to study two thirds of the time and so know in advance that you will have to spend one more year on this training, you could be sure that you could actually have su during the whole process?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513121006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513121008	There are opportunities today in the su system for extensions. My impression is that such opportunities are good enough, but I fully agree with the first, as the questioner says, that it is not the individual student with the responsibility or the guilt of a disability, if it is not possible to carry out an education, and I think we should stick to that, so it is the responsibility of the Community to ensure that it is possible for all young people, including young people with disabilities, to undertake an education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513121038	Thank you, sir. Kasper Sand Kjær. There are no more brief comments, and then I warmly welcome Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513121048	Thank you, and many thanks to the Danish People's Party for presenting the motion for a resolution here and thereby taking the initiative for an extremely important debate here in the Danish Parliament. It can be said that the timing is actually also very good, because a debate of this nature, because the Danish People's Party is raising an important debate here with the motion for a resolution on the conditions for students with disabilities. It is a debate that is important, and it is a debate that is also important to the Left. In fact, the former Left Government took the first initiative to create a cross-cutting strategy for precisely the area of disability, and in view of that, it could of course be very interesting to hear what became of all the initiatives contained in that strategy. It was presented back in 2018, and as part of the committee's work on the motion for a resolution, I would like to ask what happened to the initiatives, i.e. whether they have been abandoned after the change of government. In the Left, we are continuously in dialogue with the various organisations in this area, and we are also aware of some of the challenges outlined in the motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party. And we agree that we should look at the barriers that exist for students with disabilities not to be able to complete their education. I would like to thank the Minister for highlighting the law which actually prohibits discrimination on the grounds of disability. It was also a law that the former left-wing government took the initiative to finally be implemented here in the Folketing. So, as a starting point, we should have the basis in place. However, if I am going to try to bridge the gap between the proposer and the minister, I would like to suggest that the Minister set up a rapid working group which outlines what is really needed in this area, so that what we in the Danish Parliament think has paved the way for should happen is actually happening out there, and that there is no discrimination out there. So I would like us to consolidate the proposal from the Danish People's Party in order to ensure that the legislation adopted here in the Danish Parliament is indeed the reality of our educational institutions, and I would urge the Minister to implement it as soon as possible. Otherwise, I fully share the considerations expressed by both the Minister and the Socialist rapporteur about the importance of ensuring that students with disabilities have the same opportunities as if they did not have a disability to be able to complete higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513121435	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513121439	Thank you. I fully agree that the law that prevents discrimination does something, but the problem here is probably almost reversed in some way, because it is, of course, by being treated equally and having to search in the ordinary system, but qua their disability needs to search over and over again, and therefore needs some other framework to be equal to the other students. If you cannot study full time and actually have to apply for your su and your su extension during the course, you will also be disadvantaged than the ordinary students. Everyone, of course, has the opportunity to seek, if it is because of illness, emergency or something else, but that we, where we know that the young person has a disability that needs to be dealt with, so that we do not know in advance that we know that we can make this plan, and that we know as well that one more year is needed and can give it. Then everyone can relax, and hopefully you'll get through the training faster and better because you don't have that pressure on you. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur if Mrs Ulla Tørnæs does not agree that here we need to do something that provides a better overall framework for students.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513121559	Yes, that is exactly what I was referring to when I tried to play bridge-builder between the proposers and the minister. In other words, there is something that suggests that it bears witness to the various approaches that we in the Left have also received from various organisations in this area, that we need to look at obstacles and barriers to the possibility of higher education in Denmark without, as the rapporteur has asked several times, constantly having to apply for a derogation and apply for a derogation. After all, it is in every way inappropriate and wasted of all good powers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513121642	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513121644	Then I would just like to thank Mrs Ulla Tørnæs very much for the bridge-building work. I hope that the Minister also heard this and that this is something that we may subsequently be able to work into a report, because I think there is a need to move forward, and I also hear the rapporteur fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513121658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513121702	In other words, the rapporteur himself mentioned the possibility that we might be able to draw up a report. I think that would be an excellent runway for the proposal here, because, as I have at least heard both the Minister and my Socialist colleague, we share the objective of ensuring that there are as good conditions as possible. We have jointly adopted a ban on discrimination and, as I said, we made a cross-cutting strategy in the time of the previous government, which should pave the way for us to look at the barriers that exist, both in the area of the Ministry of Children and Education, the Ministry of Employment and, of course, also in the area of the Ministry of Education and Research. So a story I think I'd like to take a look at if we could land it there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513121801	Thank you to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs and apologise for the interruption. Often praise is just received with a nod or a smile, so I misunderstood it, but we got it solved. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Helveg Petersen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513121821	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for presenting this very fine motion for a resolution. First of all, I regret and say that we cannot support what it is, because it is the driving force behind expenditure, and we do not usually support, outside the context of financial law, motions for resolutions which are the driving force behind expenditure. But I would very much like to acknowledge the content of the motion for a resolution. We have a great deal of sympathy for this and I think it is a completely real challenge that is being addressed here. There is some way for people with disabilities to have the same level of education as people without disabilities, and there is no doubt that the reality of disabled people in the education system is well reflected here in the explanatory statement of the resolution. We want to help radically address it and solve it. In the first place, I would also very much like to contribute to a report which will then be able to play a part in what the Minister has also said. We would very much like to see how far we can go with a shepherd's letter which brings the current legislation into full application, so that out in reality, like the individual disabled in an educational establishment, we do not have to be bothered with these repeated applications. And if it is not enough to have a report and an attempt to have the existing legislation implemented, then we will also be prepared to look at it if more money is to be spent, in a financial law context, but not by supporting an individual resolution. Nevertheless, thank you for the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513121948	You're welcome, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. There are no brief comments. And I would like to welcome Mrs Astrid Carøe from the Socialist People's Party, whom I can see had been looking for more comments. Here you go, Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513122006	I figured there'd be a few comments... I'm sorry it took a minute. For SF, it is crucial that we in Denmark have an education system where there is room for everyone and where we can, with the right support, ensure that everyone has the opportunity to complete an education and that disability should not, of course, stand in the way of higher education. So I would like to start by commending DF for highlighting with this proposal how we can improve the conditions for students with disabilities. I myself attended the conference held by the Think Tank Perspective back in the autumn, where they presented their ten recommendations on how to improve conditions for students with disabilities. I am therefore very aware that students with disabilities are experiencing challenges during their education time as it is today. These are derogations which need to be sought over and over again, long waiting times for the same disability to be dealt with, well note and uncertainty as to whether or not a derogation is granted, for example. fewer ECTS points or exam aids or get the extra su clips you need. I also know that there are students who have experienced coming up on the first day of the programme and have not been able to enter the room because there has not been a ramp for wheelchairs. I can't do that. For each student, it means a world of difference that the individual educational institution is ready and knows that there must be some additional aids and that the student has the opportunity to participate and complete the programme. So I think we can do more to improve conditions for students with disabilities. The proposal is that we should demand a holistic curriculum for students with disabilities. This will ensure that students with disabilities receive the exemptions, the extended study time, the help and the extra su-clips they need. And we very much agree with the Danish People's Party in that is important, but we are not sure that this will solve the challenges that exist. As the Minister has already said, today it is an opportunity for the institutions to make study plans and the institutions must offer individual adjustment. When we in the SF hear that the students themselves demand that more study places are being created, it makes us curious why it is that they are not being made. Is it about resources; is it about regulations in legislation; is it the institutions that have bureaucratic work processes; is it about delayed students and thus again about the economy of universities? I am pleased to hear that the Danish Agency for Research and Education has sent a shepherd letter to the institutions which focuses on the issue. I hope that the Minister will also look into what the explanations are and will both listen to what the institutions are saying and will also listen to the students who have been in the situation. The proposal involves drawing up study plans at the beginning of the study and providing for exemption and additional su--clips to be ensured from the outset. And I think that should also be the starting point. However, I also recognise that for individual students and at individual universities there may be different issues that can make it possible for this to be better done locally. When you start, can you be absolutely sure what you need? It's not certain you can do it every time. In addition, we also believe that more than one study plan is needed, for example. to ensure that it does not happen, that the students show up and then cannot enter the room where they should be taught. Overall, this means that we do not support the proposal in its present form. We would like it to be looked into in greater detail, as a result of the fact that the places of study are not being created, even if the universities are calling for this and we would like more things to be included. So we want to work further with the Danish People's Party and the rest of the Danish Parliament's parties in relation to this issue. And I would very much like the Minister, at some point, to also call for negotiations on how we can ensure that conditions for students with disabilities are even better. I think it is very interesting to have a committee report and a working group, as Mrs Ulla Tørnæs suggested, and I would very much like to work on it in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513122414	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513122417	After all, the rapporteur spoke for so long and had practically all the things I might ask. What I really wanted to say is that I hear that we are very much in agreement that there is a problem here. There are some things that don't work well enough. It is said that it can be solved in the institutions, but there is the specific problem that when you know which institution you are going to address, it is perhaps too late for everything to be ready for study start. That's why it's important to be able to move something forward and get it going. It is independent of the institution, or at least there is an institution that has to take on the task, and that probably also requires us to say it from in here. That is why I welcome the commitment that we can invite the Minister to set up a working party that is willing to work quickly and that we can subsequently have some negotiations on how to make this work in a way that actually works for students with disabilities. I think that's what we all want.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513122512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513122513	I totally agree. As I said, there are many problems for students with disabilities in terms of higher education and we would like to look at it and think that a report in committee could be very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513122525	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. That is why I would like to welcome Mrs Mai Villadsen from the Enhedslisten-De Rød-Greenne.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513122536	Thank you. I believe that equal access to education is one of the most important foundations of our welfare society. We must always ensure this, including for people with disabilities, and there I believe that we in Denmark are actually not good enough. It is obvious when you look at the figures where you can see that the level of education for people with disabilities is decreasing, while at the same time increasing for all of us without a disability. People with disabilities generally have a lower level of education than all without disabilities, and the drop-out rate for students with disabilities is much higher, in fact almost twice as high as for other students. Actually, I don't think we can be familiar with that. For me it is quite clear that we in Denmark do not actually manage to include people with disabilities in our education system on an equal footing with others, and that is something we need to do about. It is very important that we take it seriously and that we work to break down the barriers that are currently standing in the way of all those with disabilities so that they cannot take an education on an equal footing with everyone else. That is why we in the Enhedslisten are pleased that the Danish People's Party has put it on the agenda and has put forward this proposal for a holistic study plan. For support and exemption opportunities are absolutely essential for students with disabilities to be able to complete an education on an equal footing with everyone else. A great many of them are now bumping their foreheads against the wall when they have to apply for support and exemption. They are met by a comprehensive application process which has also been discussed here in the platform today • long processing times and an uncertainty as to whether they can get support or not when they are delayed in their studies. This creates enormous insecurity, and the most important thing is that students with disabilities can focus on their education. Therefore, we in the Enhedslisten fully agree with the Danish People's Party in this proposal. It will remove the unnecessary and very cumbersome application process and the uncertainty it may cause some students. However, I do not believe that everything has been done with this implementation. There is much else that we can do, and that is why I very much agree with the rapporteurs who say that we should have a working group that works exactly with this area as something preparatory to some possible negotiations. It also requires that we get a boost from the student guidance manual. Today they do not have the necessary resources or knowledge, at least not in all cases, and it is absolutely essential to have it and something we should also look at before we can make proper study plans. This means that some students with disabilities first become aware of the support they are entitled to, really late in their education programmes and sometimes actually only afterwards. This makes it easier for students with disabilities who have a resourceful network to pass through the programmes more easily than others. This is socially wrong, and we need to make that right. I would also like to comment at the end of my speech on the disability allowance. Because it is the case that students with disabilities today can receive a disability allowance in addition to the diet, and it provides financial security for a group of students who are unable to work alongside them. For years, however, the disability organizations have been shouting guard against this particular supplement. They point out that the work capacity assessment required to obtain it prevents more students from getting this disability allowance which they are entitled to. At the same time, there are also many students with disabilities who actually want to work a little bit, make money alongside and get the network and experience that a job also brings. They can't do that now. So that is also something we should look at, we believe in the Enhedslisten. That is why I also support the fact that we sit together in the Folketing and look precisely at this issue. Because it has a lot of facets. However, there should be no doubt that a holistic study plan is the most central and most needed for students with disabilities. So I look forward very much to the further and seemingly very broad cooperation on this in the Folketing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513123030	Thank you to Mrs Mai Villadsen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513123042	We very much appreciate that DF focuses on how to strengthen students with disability conditions in order to complete an education by making this proposal for a holistic curriculum for students with disabilities. I was also with Mrs Astrid Carøe at Danske Handicaporganisations, where they presented their recommendations from this study from the think tank Perspective, on which I also believe much of this proposal is based. It was really good to get out and meet the young people who have a disability, hear about the different types of disability they have and how it affects their study programme. I don't think we're getting fewer people with disabilities. After all, there are many different types, asperger, ADHD and other types of disability that several of them pointed out make it difficult for them to follow a full course at our educational institutions. The figures also show that students with disabilities are on average longer to complete their education. That's everything between 4 and 6 months to 1 year. It is also a large group: 7,500 young people. These are young people we all care about. I am also pleased to hear from the other speakers here and also from the Minister that this is an area that we all very much want to focus on. It also makes sense to carry out holistic assessments also to see if we can get rid of any administrative problems, requests for derogations etc., which are not necessary and which, of course, also cost resources. The Conservative People's Party would really like to enter into a dialogue on how we can better help students with disabilities to complete their education and strengthen their well-being, because more than one in five young people with disabilities feel isolated in universities. It is a very high figure for how many people in many ways feel excluded from social life. It is also very important for one's ability to learn that one is thriving. So we think it's a broader discussion. We also have some difficulty in supporting this proposal with such a specific budget, namely 175 million. kr. It's not that it sounds unrealistic. I figured it out, and that's about. 23,000 kroner. per person. It is of course not very much money if you look at it from that perspective, and certainly not if it helps them to complete the training and if you look at what they can contribute in the long term socio-economically, but also looks at the joy of supporting themselves. However, we think that the debate on such a budget should be held in a debate on the budget in the autumn. We would very much like to enter into a dialogue and a working group in which we can look at how we can better support students with disabilities, and also look more closely at what challenges they have been facing in addition to financial assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513123405	Thank you very much, Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. There are no brief comments. And welcome to Mr. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513123419	Thank you for the floor. New citizens want a diverse education and training system, a system in which as many disabled young people as possible can get a real higher education qualification on an equal footing with other young people. Individuals should be given the opportunity to participate as far as possible in teaching, leisure and community activities. In addition, specialist knowledge and access to the necessary resources must be ensured at each higher education institution. B 99, which DF has put forward, envisages adding a further 175 million. kr. to the area. The idea is that there are no offers to prepare, among other things. holistic curricula for students with mental or physical impairments in higher education. This is a great deal of money, especially since the individual student with a need for support to complete an education already has a number of possibilities for support if one has limitations in one's ability to function or otherwise needs special support to complete an education. I can mention just a few options: student counselling and special support for students who can already obtain advice and guidance on the possibilities of organising the programme so that it can be adapted to special needs • su with disability allowance, special educational support and rehabilitation. So there are already many options. In short, there is not necessarily a need for additional money or more offers to young people with disabilities who would like to study and complete higher education. The problem is rather that the target group here does not know the existing special aid and exemption possibilities. A survey was carried out, among other things. The new study from the think tank Perspective and the Association of Young People with Handicap shows that only one in two students, i.e. approx. 50% of the students with disabilities, are familiar with and have received guidance on the special support and dispensation possibilities available to people with disabilities. I therefore believe that better information for individual students with a mental or physical impairment can solve some of the student's claims, without the need to add to the area 175 million new crowns of taxpayers' money, because the offers are very much there. That is why new citizens cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513123655	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513123658	Thanks for the speech. I would like to know whether New Citizens do not recognise that there are some challenges for students, that they have to apply over and over again. They say that the possibilities are there, but are, for example, there. the possibility that, before you apply for training, you will be able to obtain the approvals or exemptions that are needed so that things can actually be clear when you have started training, not one of the areas in which you could enter? Does New Citizens not also recognise that people with disabilities may need longer study time? And you know that in advance. Is there any reason why one should have the uncertainty throughout one's study programme in relation to whether one can get the extra su that allows one to complete one's study? That means a lot of people are falling away. We can see that there are far too few young people with disabilities who receive training, even though they are actually qualified to do so. So is it not a problem that we should take seriously and should we not have a plan on how to help them better and ensure that they get through better?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513123759	I think it sounds very reasonable, as has been suggested by almost all the rapporteurs, to try to look at this area and see what we can do to make better use of the existing arrangements. Of course, I understand that a student may need to have longer periods of study, and there we must also see if we can do something to help with counselling to the student so that it will be easier for him to know what opportunities he has.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513123825	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. So we say thank you, sir. Peter Seier Christensen and welcome to Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513123839	Thank you for the floor. As I think all the rapporteurs have said, this is a very good resolution when you look at the problem that it is going to solve, because of course disabled people also need training if they want to, and there should be no unnecessary obstacles to it. So much praise to the Danish People's Party for making this proposal. However, as the Minister and several rapporteurs have also mentioned, it can be said that the purpose of the resolution has already been achieved with the existing legislation, namely with the legislation we have on discrimination. I also think it should be borne in mind that we have a major problem in Denmark with the growth of laws and regulations. It has been the subject of a scientific study. From approx. To date, therefore, there has been a threefold increase in the number of laws and regulations if we count the linguistic scope. In this situation, and if we therefore have an existing law which, in such a way, meets the objective, then we should not enrich the world, I would have liked to say, with further legislation. Then I think it is a better idea to send out a shepherd's letter, as the Minister has mentioned, or as Mrs Ulla Tørnæs has said, to make some sort of bridge-building between the Folketing and the government, so that we can clarify what the rules in force are actually like. So we cannot therefore support the proposal alone, even though it has a very good purpose. I also think that this is a little questionable in principle, and it is not just this proposal, but it is a number of other proposals which contain public expenditure of a three-digit million ^ that no funding has been given to the proposal. I think we can do that in the format of the resolution, because it could go so wrong that it was adopted, and then the money must be found, and so I think we should take a position on these issues when we put forward a proposal. However, this is a really relevant and important problem, for which there are solutions, and for which I also hear a great willingness to work with a report or a meeting to sit down and discuss matters, and I hear that the Minister would like to send out the shepherd's letters that need to be sent out. I think that's really good. So commend the intention, but not support for the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513124141	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513124145	Thank you. I would like to know whether the Liberal Alliance does not recognise that there are very many of these young people with disabilities who stumble along the way in their education. We can see that too few people actually manage to get an education, of those who are actually qualified for it because they stumble in our system because they stumble into repeatedly making applications because they stumble in that their su runs out and then they do not move on from there. Then there is no need for us to do a little more than just send out shepherd letters, but actually tackle this issue and see how we move forward, how we can help and support these young people getting through. If they are to contribute to society, their best chance is to get an education that they can actually contribute.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513124235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513124235-2	As I understand the Minister and as I understand Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, who has also been Minister for Research, the problem is first and foremost that the acquis we have provides for flexible and sensible treatment of people with disabilities. However, even if the acquis, as it is, provides for such sensible treatment, it is not always given, and that is where I just think it makes more sense to stick to the fact that we have a regulatory framework that provides for fair and decent treatment and then get it into play.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513124312	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513124313	I agree, of course, that to the extent that we have any rules and we have a framework that is good enough, if only they are used, we must ensure that they are used and not create new rules. But we do not have anything today to ensure that, as young people who wish to apply for training, they can apply for the exemptions and to meet the needs they now have in advance, so that they can be sure that, when the training starts, the place of training is also prepared for the young person to be able to get the things he needs. So doesn't the Liberal Alliance want to work for such a small thing? If we go in and call on the Minister to set up this fast-working working group so that we can get started on this, will the Liberal Alliance not also be involved in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513124354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513124354-2	Yes, we support that, but as I understand it, there is nothing to prevent a university, for example, from doing so today. In other words, it is up to you to help new applicants who have a disability. So I think that it is first of all a matter of getting the emphasis on higher education institutions that they have to get up so that it does not become unnecessarily cumbersome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513124426	Thank you, sir. Mr Dahl, and we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr Dahl. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513124442	Thank you and thank you for the debate. I believe that during all the years I have been at the Bornholm People's Meeting, I have been involved in debates which have dealt in various ways with the challenges of students with disabilities. And I can actually get so sad when I hear over and over again about all the trip threads that are in the system, because in my opinion and in the opinion of the DF, and I hear that we too are broadly in agreement here, that is what this must be about, as young people have the ability to take an education. That is what must set the limit for what kind of training they can take and not the framework we set up, or the various trip wires that can be along the way. That is actually why we are making this proposal. We find that there are a lot of people who experience that when they come in and start the programme, it may be months before the material is ready, and if you come in as blind and have to keep up with an education and you cannot really get the books you need, in a way that you can hear them, that is, if you cannot get the material you need, it is no wonder that you get off again or fall out of the programme. If you go and have an adhd diagnosis or another disorder that makes you really difficult to cope with everyday life, but actually can study well, there is a concern when you do not know if you get su for the last year, which you know well in advance you need for the training. But why should we expose these young people with disabilities to this? Why are we not going to help them and give them a framework so that they are more likely to get through? In other words, we are also getting a social gain out of it because the young people who come out can actually contribute something where, without training, they may not be able to do any job. That is why our action plan, or our proposal for an action plan, is all about saying that it does not go far enough before you start, that is to say, the moment you think about applying, and at the other end of the day, actually, that it is also taken care of when you finish your training • that it is ensured that there is a transition to business and to jobs at the other end. I am so glad that during the course of the debate I can actually hear from all parties that there is support for us to press the Minister and I actually heard the Minister say that it was not entirely excluded to create a fast-working working working group and to convene some negotiations on how we can do this properly. I can also hear that spending 175 million. kr. On more su is not something you can say yes to today, and it may well be, it has to be a trip around a finance bill. But I also hear a broad consensus that this is something that we can talk about and now the Minister for Finance is here too, so it may be that we can almost do it right away. However, what I would like to welcome at least now is that I am in favour of a joint report which says that this is an important problem and that we must tackle it and find sensible solutions. I would say that part of my preparatory work here has also been about the fact that we have held meetings at the University of Southern Denmark where students with disabilities have been involved. Over there they have actually done a job which I think could also be part of the basis for moving forward, because there they split it up and say that there are a whole lot of things that can and should be done as a university, as a place of education, and can adjust and do better, but there are also some things we can do to help them. It can, for example, be done. It is a question of creating a digital file, as they have called it, where you can actually say that the information that is needed is collected. I mean, I think it's a shame when I hear young students saying that they should apply for exemption for a new exam and then go out and find all those papers that they might have had a few years ago, but which they don't really know where they are. It is such a very, very low-practical thing that I think could help a great deal, even in relation to where the derogations that have been granted are formally located if you are at another educational establishment. There are a great many elements that I think we need to address and can address, and I actually hear assurances about that. So I would just like to welcome that and then I would like to say that I will continue to work on a report that I hope we can all support so that we can push forward with this very, very important agenda. So thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513124904	You're welcome, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. There are no brief comments. No more of you have asked to speak, and the debate is therefore over. I would suggest that the proposal be referred to the Education and Research Committee, and if any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513124923	The debate is open, and the first to speak is the rapporteur for the Socialist Group, Mr President. Kasper Sand Kjær. No, he doesn't want the floor. The next is the Left, which does not wish to speak either. The Danish People's Party? No. Neither is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left. Does anyone wish to speak? No, there isn't. Then it is the Minister for Finance who has the opportunity to wish to speak. Since no one has asked to speak, the debate is closed. Is there a request for referral to committee? It was a careful, silent shaking of the head. As this is not the case, the proposal goes directly to the second (last) reading. There is no more to be done before Question Time, which I would like to draw attention to starts at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513130027	We need to get to grips with questions for the ministers. I have to inform you that there will be a questioner, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Dansk Folkeparti, on question no. 8 to the Minister for Justice, and I shall also inform you that there will be any questioner, sir. Morten Messersschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti, på question no. 34, 35 and 36 to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. The first question is to the Minister for Finance of Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513130054	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, for reading the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513130057	Thank you, President. Last week it doesn't last very long, but a few weeks ago the minister told us that 184,000 Danes are facing severe injuries from either dismissals or repatriations here during the corona, so is the Minister still planning to implement the agreement which, despite warnings from the trade union movement as early as 1 July, will give skilled workers from non-EU countries much easier access to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513130129	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513130130	Thank you for the question. I will start by stating that the government is deeply concerned about holding hands under Danish jobs and also Danish companies. That is why we have agreed with the social partners on wage compensation and with all the parties of the Folketing, including the questioner's, on aid packages. And I would like to take this opportunity to sign for a very good cooperation. The question is then asked today whether the government stands by the financial agreement that we have made. We do, of course, and the Finance Act states that the positive list will enter into force on 1 July, and that is why the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration will also bring the matter forward. At the same time, it is important to say that we must, of course, keep an eye on how unemployment develops. It is, of course, a cornerstone of the part about being able to bring foreign labour to Denmark that the scheme we make provides access to foreign labour only in those sectors where the labour market balance points to a shortage of skilled labour. And my expectation is with the development that is right now that it will be a smaller move that will be on the scheme than there was when we made the agreement with a number of parties last year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513130255	Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513130256	Thank you for your answer. But if I choose to put this question to the Minister for Finance, although we know that this is formally a matter for another minister, it is precisely because of the view that the Minister for Finance had expressed here a few weeks ago about the 184 000 Danes who are likely to be badly affected in one way or another in relation to the Corona, despite the good aid packages that we have been able to make together. It would then be nice if the Minister for Finance could say something about how many of the 184,000 who are actually skilled. In other words, how many people are directly challenged by the relaxation that has been put in place, of course, by the Radical Left, who always want more relaxation in foreign policy? For that is the point: that we are not just faced with a health challenge now, hopefully soon, but that, as soon as it is over, we are going to deal with the economic consequences of the challenge that there are very many people who have today either got a note or know and fear that it is waiting just around the corner. And there's a bit like a fist to a black eye that you have a government even bought a social democratic government that usually says that you're on the side of the skilled, even if you couldn't just have 1st May parties this year which then chooses to do this very violent liberalisation per year. July 1st. That's an outrageously bad timing. That is why I would urge you, even though I know that to remain in government you must of course find something to give the Radicals a way of finding a way to postpone this date. We must then hope, after the elections, to be able to change the law completely; it will probably be difficult on this side. But one can at least postpone it so that the 184 000 Danes, whom the Minister of Finance himself is talking about, will not be further at risk, in relation to whether they are fired or in other ways affected on the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513130447	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513130448	There should be no dispute whatsoever about the fact that what the government is concerned with, and I also hear that the Danish People's Party is concerned about, is in a very, very difficult situation because of the covid-19 to ensure that we hold our hands under Danish companies and Danish jobs. And, of course, like the questioner, I am deeply concerned about what is happening and also about what can come out of the rest of the world of problems for Danish export companies and other things. This scheme is a relatively limited scheme which aims to be able to obtain labour if there is no available Danish labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513130530	Thank you. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513130532	That sounds very good, of course, but why not just postpone it? In other words, if this is not something the Minister expects to have any significance now, why should it be implemented here per part-out? July 1st? I can see that there are others in the trade union movement who are also concerned; that it is not just us in the Danish People's Party. So, Federal Secretary of 3F Søren Heisel has been out to call it directly inappropriate for this law to be implemented now. The main organization of the trade union movement has also called for the relaxation to be suspended. In other words, there is usually a better connection between the social democracy and the trade union movement than between the trade union movement and the Danish People's Party. It's like reality's turned upside down here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513130606	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513130608	I can confirm that there is both a very good story and also a good cooperation between the Social Democratic Party and thus also the government and the Danish trade union movement. We are concerned about securing Danish employees and Danish companies, and this discussion does not change that. We have drawn up a financial law agreement with a number of parties for which the government is the target, and that is why the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration will make the proposal. I have also noted that Danish industry signs that this is what is happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513130644	I did not say at the outset that there is a co-questioner, but there is. Now it's sir. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513130652	Thank you for the reply from the Minister. I think there is a lack of some sense of reality in what the government and also the Finance Minister are saying here. One recognizes, on the one hand, that we are unfortunately getting a whole lot of unemployed people to say that there may be some sort of hidden unemployment, because we have some help packages that are keeping their hands on something that may not be able to cope with it on the other side of these aid packages, so the figures we are seeing for the Danish labour market now can unfortunately be much bigger but on the other hand the government chooses to stand by an agreement on which several parties were included in the agreement saying: that is a really bad idea, let us put it on hold. I just can't make that rhyme. I'd like to read out what, for example. 3F says to them: It is said to be a direct mockery of the many fired Danes. It is believed that it is inappropriate to expect the many people who are now losing their jobs to go out and fight even harder for a job because we are importing foreign labour from outside the EU. Can't the Minister of Finance see that there's something wrong here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513130802	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513130803	The government is very, very concerned about securing Danish jobs. That is why we have made aid packages for a total of 400 billion. kr. We have taken steps that no government has taken since the Second World War, in close cooperation with the parties of the Folketing. A financial agreement has been concluded last year, which means that a bill will have to be put forward to enable Danish industry to obtain skilled labour if it is not possible to provide Danish skilled labour to carry out those tasks, and this is a proposal that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration will make in a perfectly normal way. Moreover, I expect that the Corona situation will mean that the need to use this scheme will be less than when the financial agreement was drawn up, because unfortunately there are more Danes who are becoming unemployed, both skilled and unskilled.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513130905	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513130906	Let me get this straight. What I understand now is that despite what Enhedslisten and SF say, the government will nevertheless ensure that this proposal can be adopted in the Folketing. That is how I understand what the Minister of Finance is saying here. But does the Minister of Finance also say that one thing is that the proposal will be adopted, another is whether it will actually be used? And will the Minister of Finance give us so much that it would be bad timing, very bad timing, if you had to choose to use it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513130945	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513130946	In other words, the government has generally announced that we are putting forward the bill, and that is a logical follow-up to the financial law agreement we made last year with a number of parties. Unfortunately, the Danish People's Party was not part of the financial law agreement. And what I am saying here today is that it is clear that the covid-19 situation will make it in all probability that there will be fewer companies in need of foreign labour because there will be more available Danish labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513131022	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513131024	But I think that is a poor answer from the Minister, because if you do not expect to use the rules, why send out this insecurity signal into society at all? So, according to the Finance Minister, 184,000 people stand to be hit themselves, and all he has to say about it, if I may say so, is the bad deal the government has made with the Radical Left: don't worry, it doesn't matter in the real world. The least you could do then was to say that you postpone it instead of just leaving people out there in the dark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513131059	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513131100	We don't leave people in the dark. We've made aid packages for 400 billion. kr. in cooperation with the social partners and in cooperation with all the parties of the Folketing. That's why I have to tell Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, that it is not a fair idea to say that the government is not concerned with holding hands under jobs and companies. And the Danish business community also signs that the proposal that Dansk Folkeparti is calling for is being submitted. It is also the case that reality has changed since we made the financial law agreement, and therefore the need to use the scheme will, in all likelihood, be less.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513131142	Thank you. The question is over. We will continue with questions to the Minister for Finance of Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and with Mr. Peter Skaarup as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513131148	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513131151	Thank you, President. What does the Minister think the former Press Commissioner of the Ministry of Finance, Sigga Nolsøe, may have meant that it is a difficult position if you are not a professional Social Democrat, and what does the Minister think it says about the relationship between the government party and the civil service under that government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513131210	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513131210-2	It is not for me to interpret the background to Sigga Nolsøe's comment. However, I would like to stress that the statement and my own experience of the relationship between the government and the official apparatus in my own ministry are very far apart. As is also reflected in the statement by the Minister of Finance to the press, he does not share Sigga Nolsøe's assessment either. I think I have good cooperation with the Ministry's staff, and I would like to say that I am not interested in what their political affiliation might be. I would also like to make it clear that party political affiliation so far and in the future is irrelevant to being or being employed as an official in the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513131301	Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513131302	Unfortunately, there is little evidence of this if you look at the way this government has chosen to hire people since it stepped in. It is not only the comment by Sigga Nolsøe that raises the suspicion that there may be political connotations and interests at stake when hiring what should be neutral officials. Gry Möger Poulsen has been Minister for Climate Change Dan Jørgensen's political advisor when he was in the European Parliament in 2013. She is now Head of Communications in the Ministry of Climate, Energy and Supply, how funny Dan Jørgensen is Minister. Sten Kristensen is employed as a press manager, that is to say a neutral, at least according to the book, official position in the Treasury, but was then special adviser to the former Finance Minister Bjarne Corydon, a Social Democrat. Mads Kolby is the press manager of the Ministry of Business, a neutral position, but is a former press adviser in Social Democracy and was also Mette Frederiksen's press coordinator during the election campaign. Thomas Bro Sæhl is new Head of Press and Communications at the Ministry of Children and Education; he was former adviser to the current Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior Astrid Krag and also to former Foreign Minister Villy Søvndal. Jens Anton Tingstrøm Klinken is employed as Head of Communications in a neutral post in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Home Affairs, but supported the same minister, Mrs Astrid Krag, during the crisis in the Socialist People's Party back in 2012. Michael Dahl Nielsen is employed as Head of Communication and Press in the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Churches, according to the book, a neutral position of office, but he is former Head of Press in Roskilde Municipality, where Joy Mogensen was Social Democratic Mayor until the election of the Parliament. Then there is Pelle Dam, who has been chairman of SFU and member of SF's leadership together with Mattias Tesfaye. Today he is a neutral official as Head of the Press of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration. Can the Minister see that there is a strange coincidence of social democratic recruitment in the past and now recruitment as neutral officials in this government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513131506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513131507	I am fully confident that my colleagues as ministers and the ministries for which they are responsible have a completely professional approach to the recruitment of officials. There is an approach to hiring the candidate who may be most qualified for the job and that it is not based on a party-political view whether or not you get the job. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513131535	Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513131536	But could it simply be that in this one-party government, perhaps as a result of a sense of power, one simply thinks that the most important qualification of an official is that he had to think like the minister himself? For this picture is quite clear, and I am quite sure that if this were something we could read about Hungary, for example, the Foreign Minister would have stood up and thundered against the growing dictatorial conditions in Hungary or Poland or elsewhere. Doesn't the Minister of Finance think I'm right about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513131607	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513131608	No, I do not think so, and I think that remark speaks for itself. When you hire officials in Denmark and that is, whatever it is for a government that sits, I have a belief and expectation that you do so on a professional basis on the basis of the professional qualifications that the applicant may have, and not on the basis of what political conviction he may have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513131637	Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513131640	It is, after all, a theme that has been very focused on since the Social Democratic Government took office, just as there has been a focus on it when there have been bourgeois governments. It can be said that the new and the inflamed from the point of view of the Danish People's Party is that there is such a large association of individuals between people who have previously been employed in the context of the Social Democracy and employees in these press executive positions. After all, we should not confuse things, because one thing is spin-doctors, and that is why we fully agree that it is a political position. It's a person who goes in and out with the minister. But as far as the heads of the press are concerned, it is quite different. After all, it must be totally politically neutral officials who are employed under quite different conditions from spin doctors. And there is my question to the Minister of Finance: is it not inflamed and bad for democracy if there is a link between social democrats and then people in these press executive positions who are supposed to be politically neutral?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513131752	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513131753	I fully agree that there is a difference between whether you are employed as a special adviser or as a traditional official. This is the case, and I hope that this is the case, regardless of which government there may be, that you do not hire people on the basis of their party color, but on the basis of their qualifications. That is the way this government works, and I have full confidence in all my colleagues, and that is also the way I work as Finance Minister myself. Of course, that is the way it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513131826	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513131827	In the light of this, can the Minister of Finance understand that there are people here in the Danish Parliament and also outside the House who are concerned about our democracy and transparency in the public apparatus, who become insecure when someone who has been very central and has a good reputation and reputation for a politically neutral position says that it is a difficult position to have if you are not a professional socialist? Can the Minister of Finance not understand that it creates insecurity around the world for people who are really deeply concerned about our parliamentary relations in here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513131912	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513131913	I do not doubt that the Danish People's Party is deeply concerned that we have a well-functioning democracy. I am, and that is why it is also vitally important for me to say that, as regards both former employees, current employees and employees who might come in the future, it is not with me as Finance Minister that your political color is important for how you can challenge the job or whether you can get it. That is quite crucial, and that must be the case, because if it is not, we have a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513131945	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup, and then it's Mr. Skaarup. Morten Messerschmidt for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513131947	I think the Minister for Finance can see that he and the government here actually have a problem, and we would be happy to help clear this up if there is no cover-up. So I would like to know whether we should not set up a small committee with a representative from each party who gets all the applications for the posts in question over, of course, under a ban on public opinion, because that is personal relations. But then the parties of the Folketing can sit and review them and be convinced that the government actually has the skeleton to the professional qualifications and not the party political qualifications. Will the Minister of Finance give the Folketing such a favor so that we can clear up the doubts about the government's ability?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513132024	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513132025	I am very surprised that one has the approach that one has so great a lack of faith that the recruitments that are being made are in order. I have complete confidence that the appointments that are being made in the ministries are being made on a factual and proper basis, and I do not see why the Folketing should sit and be the monitoring committee for appointments at departmental head level or, moreover, in relation to heads of department or people at other levels who hire officials. That would be a new break, for which I certainly cannot see any justification.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513132103	Thank you. The question is over, and thank you to Morten Messerschmidt and Peter Skaarup. We will continue with questions to the Minister of Finance, but now it is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Dansk Folkeparti, who is asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513132111	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513132115	Thank you, sir. President. What is the Minister's position with regard to the announcement by the support parties that SAS must fly more climate-friendlyly against state aid than they do today?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513132127	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513132128	There is no doubt that SAS is in a difficult situation, after all, similar to almost all other airlines in the world. Covid-19 puts very great pressure on SAS, which has lost a very, very significant part of the passenger numbers. Against this background, the Danish Government and also the Swedish Government have offered help. I think it is important to bear in mind in this context that SAS was one of the most concerned and visionary companies in the green transition even before the covid-19 situation. And I trust that when SAS gets back on its wings, it is also something that will continue to be a, if not a, green thread for the company. So it is on this basis that the government has also spoken to both SAS and the Swedish Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513132226	I would urge that we keep our distance in the Chamber so that we do not sit too close here in the Folketing. Here you go, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513132234	Thank you. I would, of course, like to sign for the Minister's reply, but there was no answer to the question. So I asked about the statements that have been made since the last Question Time, among other things. from the Radical Left and from the Enhedslisten, about their position in relation to some negotiations to secure the many, many thousands of jobs that we still have at Copenhagen Airports, including of course SAS, which is a curve and a crown jewel in relation to the development of this industry here in Denmark. It is therefore only the case that two parties have stated that they will link the two negotiations with a possible rescue plan in relation to the economy of SAS, with a statement on some environmental standards, in relation to the need to impose more requirements on SAS than they do today. That's where the concern comes from at the Danish People's Party. The Minister mentioned in his reply that SAS is in fact one of the companies in the world that were the first to introduce thorough climate reports and reporting in relation to the development of their business without any compulsion. It was something that was done voluntarily, because SAS was actually aiming to provide positive tactics in relation to climate and emissions and all the other things that are coming. That is why it is important that we get the Minister of Finance to say what is actually going to come into some negotiations in relation to SAS' future activities, when the parties from which the government is supported go out openly and say that if there is to be State aid in some form to SAS, it must be on the condition that even more and stronger climate demands are made for the company, which then makes it loses its competitiveness towards those with whom it competes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513132438	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513132439	I think this is the wrong way to set things up. I believe that SAS has made a visionary and wise assessment that being ahead of climate action is not something that damages your competitiveness. That is one of the things that gives consumers confidence. It is also one of the things that can lead to lower costs. For example, if you spend less fuel, you also spend less money on fuel and now take an example. The guarantees that we have given SAS together with the Swedish Government, and which the Danish Parliament has approved in the Finance Committee, have not been required for SAS to go in with new environmental measures, and I really consider the statements that have been made to support the fact that SAS is already a very green company.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513132531	I would just like to point out that we are now on speaking time of 1⁄2 minutes. Here you go, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513132534	Now, according to previous debates, we are all aware of the fact that the Minister has a press manager, and I also think that the Minister should be prepared to deal with the statements made by the government's support parties, which clearly and unequivocally state that an economic subsidy model must be established in order to get the crisis a little further away, to remove the heavy and black clouds over SAS, their economy and many thousands of employees, not to do so, as both the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left have proposed, namely by imposing more environmental requirements on them than they do on their competitors.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513132614	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513132615	It is up to the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten what they want for SAS. What is the government's approach is that SAS is a pioneering company with regard to the green agenda. It is then also a company that, like all other airlines, is in a very, very difficult situation, and therefore what the government is concerned with is helping to hold hands under SAS in this difficult time, because it is of enormous importance to Denmark. This is our way out of Denmark, and it is our way to get people to come to Denmark, and it is also thousands of jobs we are talking about. So that is not something the government has proposed, it is something that some other parties have proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513132659	Hans Kristian Skibby with the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513132701	Yeah, somebody else. It is the parliamentary basis of the government that we are talking about, it is the parties that carry through the Finance Act with the minister's party in the government. I do not think that answer is entirely reasonable, since I have waited 14 days for this question to be answered here in the Danish Parliament. It is rapporteurs from these parties who say that they will demand it here in relation to some negotiations that need to be done if we are to ensure the economy and the foundations of SAS' future activities. That is why I ask the Minister's position: do you agree with it, or do you not agree with it? And then you start all sorts of other things, and I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513132740	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513132741	I have said this very clearly. The Government has provided guarantees for SAS together with the Swedish Government. A document has been sent to the Danish Parliament's Finance Committee and answers have been given to questions in this regard, and no demands have been made by the government in relation to SAS being more green than what SAS has already proposed, and in my best terms SAS is a company that has a very visionary approach to it here. Then it is true that there are parties from the parliamentary basis of the government that may have a different position, but I hope that in broad cooperation in the Folketing we work together to hold our hands under SAS, because that is not something that is done on its parliamentary basis alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513132821	Thank you, Minister. Thank you. Hans Kristian Skibby. Then we move on, and now it's a question for the Minister of Justice of Mr. Bertel Haarder, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513132831	Sir. Bertel Haarder for reading the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513132833	Will the Minister explain why a summer rental contract cannot be a worthy purpose of entry?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513132845	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513132846	Thank you for the question. I understand, of course, the challenges posed by border controls and restrictions on entry to the Danish tourist industry and the many holiday home owners who have rented their summer houses to foreign guests. Renting holiday homes in Denmark for foreign tourists plays a major role in overall tourism in Denmark and for local communities around the country, so I understand that it had been hoped that tourists would now also be opened up. However, when we find ourselves in a situation where all the parties of the Folketing have agreed on the next steps for the reopening of Denmark, we must of course be careful to immediately announce new things. Because if we open the borders too soon, we can risk putting positive developments in Denmark at risk and losing the great joint effort on the floor. The reopening of Denmark is also a matter of priority, because unfortunately we cannot open up all things at the same time. In other words, we cannot look at all the wishes for a reopening of Denmark in isolation, because if we look only at the individual wishes separately, I think the answer will almost always be that there are very good reasons to open up to that. But the individual elements cannot be seen separately from each other because they are connected. Having said that, the government does not, of course, want to maintain the current restrictions on entry beyond the maximum necessary. That is why we are also closely following developments in our neighbouring countries, just as we have a dialogue with our neighbouring countries on the possibilities for a future reopening. As stated in the agreement between the parties of the Folketing, the government will announce the restrictions on entry by 1 June of this year at the latest.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133027	Sir. Bertel Haarder.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133028	I think the Minister for Justice has come to realize that my party should not therefore count on him to support the way in which the government has handled the border closure. Because I am not the first to ask in Question Time. I would like to quote the gentle governor Anneli Hulthén, who says: We thought that we were in the process of developing a common economic region, then Denmark suddenly closes the borders and we were not even informed. The South Swedish business manager Stephan Müchler adds to: "My call to the Danish politicians is quite clear: Open the border against Skåne, because we have the pandemic under better control than you have on Zealand. And we are deeply dependent on each other. We need to be part of the capital region: we need to raise each other with jobs and business development. What does the Minister of Justice say about the Governor saying that the Swedish side was not informed, and what does the Minister of Justice say about the cry of distress that the ruthless business community is making, which could just as well have come from large parts of Danish business, including the summerhouse industry, which is losing 107 million? kr. a day?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133156	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133157	I think it will be clear to everyone that the Swedish approach to dealing with the covid crisis has been quite different from the Danish one with the consequences it has. In fact, I think it also illustrates very well why caution should be exercised in opening the borders. Because of course there is a risk, and when we have done so much inside Denmark, when we have asked the Danes to suffer the deprivation that we have, in this situation, it will be a problem if we open up to import infection from other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133228	Sir. Bertel Haarder.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133229	It is difficult to understand why it should be a problem that a citizen from an area with less infection comes to an area with more infection. That must only be a problem for that citizen, because there is more infection in Denmark than there is in Scania, and now I have not talked about the Danish-German border country at all. This is, of course, about sitting in the capitals and ignoring those who live in the border areas, and that is what I, as chairman of the Nordic Border Obstacle Council and as a Danish-born man, would like to rebel against, that is to say, disregarding the interests in the border areas without having any health reasons for it. For there is less corona in Flensburg and Scania than there is in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133318	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133319	It is simply a misrepresentation. The government has great sympathy for, great understanding of, great interest in the opportunities to open the borders again and has a great deal of focus on it and has dialogue with the other countries about it. What is just the concern, and I simply find it difficult to understand that does not apply to the Left too, is that if we get too much open, if we get imported infection into this country, we risk putting all the good results that have made it possible to open up society at risk again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133355	Sir. Bertel Haarder on the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133357	But the question was as follows: what happens when someone from a lower-infectious area comes to an area of higher infection? And I would like to add to that, because perhaps the Minister will be able to answer that question: when will there be an answer? If the Germans open from 15 May or 25 May, will the Danish summer house owners still have to wait until 1 June? Not least, it is the lack of information that is so painful, and surely it does not make you sick by giving notice in time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133435	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133435-2	It is a mistake to think that if there is an area of lower infection, it is an advantage to have that area integrated. It is not like lemonade that you mix up and where the mixture becomes weaker. If we now opened up to all the Germans, and let us say that a million Germans came, then of course a part of them would be statistically infected and they would then bring infected chains into the country. We have seen how few people needed to bring the infection from Austria to Denmark and shut down our society, and therefore we cannot say, just because the pressure of infection is lower, that it would be a good idea to be together. It is simply a misconception.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133514	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you, sir. Bertel Haarder. We'll continue with the Minister of Justice, but now with Mr. Kim. Karsten Lauritzen asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133523	Here you go, sir. Karsten Lauritzen, for reading the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133526	Thank you. The question to the Minister for Justice is: Will the Minister elaborate on what the Minister means by the statement policy is about doing what people think, a little before they even know that they mean it • as the Minister puts it in Berlingske's article from 4 May with the title • Hækkerrup reproves legal Monday trainers after worried shouting: "We haven't had the academic luxury?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133556	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133557	Yes, I would very much like to explain that. In fact, in my opinion, it contains the perfectly correct double truth that when we do something political, we should not run by what people think. We need to go a little further than what people think and draw the people in the direction we want to take. But we must do so in a way that the people can understand what we mean and where we are in contact with the people. There are parties that have a different view of it and believe that one can get out of reality and formulate oneself as one wishes. There are others who think you should just run for the people's mood. But I do believe that some of what my party and the author's party share is precisely this approach to making politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133639	Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133640	I can say that I do not share the Minister for Justice's definition that politics is about doing what people think a little before they mean it. Politics is about looking. Politics is about making Denmark a better society, or at least politics should be about that. And when you run after the people's mood, and that's what I put in the Minister for Justice's quote, contrary to what the Minister for Justice has just said, that's how I read the quote, I really think it's worrying, especially in a time of crisis, and that's why I allow myself to ask the question. At a time of crisis, it is precisely that we need politicians who lead the people, who show fundamental respect for legal certainty and civil liberties, and who are particularly careful to run after the people's mood. That is why I would like to ask the Minister for Justice again: if the people's mood is that they want free speed on motorways, then they should also listen to the majority, or should they choose to say that they are not actually in favour, because there are some good explanations of why they do not have it, among other things. That people die in traffic?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133756	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133757	But if you're going to talk about running after the people's mood, you only have to take the first part of the quote, namely politics is about doing what people think. But that's not the quote. The quotation takes the second part, a little before they themselves know that they mean it, and of course there is the fact that our task is politically to put us a little further forward and to have views on the direction in which society should move, but at the same time sticking to the fact that the movement that we do for society is anchored in the reality that people are experiencing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133830	I just have to recommend that you also keep a distance of 1 m up in the press room. We are trying to do that down here in the Parliamentary Chamber. Here you go, sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133837	Thank you for that clarification, President. I have to ask the Minister for Justice: does that apply, for example? the introduction of the death penalty in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133851	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133852	I am not in favour of the death penalty in Denmark, and if anyone thinks so politically, I should like to be the one who takes me a little further forward and explains what I mean and helps to move the attitude of the Danish people.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133910	Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen for the last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133913	Thank you for that answer, Minister of Justice. I am pleased with the clarification of what that means. I would now still say that when you read the quote policy is about doing what people think, a little before they know that they mean it, it seems as if the most important thing is to pander to the people's mood and not lead it, and what we need in this time of crisis, and which the government has done in some areas and has not done in other areas, is not to pander to the people, but it is to lead it in the right direction and not to forget that article is also about fundamental freedoms, including legal certainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133948	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513133949	No, it's not about that. It is a question of having contact so that the policy that is formulated does not stand with its feet firmly planted in thin air. I welcome the question, but I am really surprised that it is precisely the questioner and the author's party who raises that question, because I believe that our approaches to politics as parties on this point are completely identical.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134016	Thank you, sir. Karsten Lauritzen. We continue with the Minister for Justice, but now it is on questions from Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, and the questioner is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134024	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134027	Thank you. Does the Government's discussions with Norway and Germany on the gradual reopening of the border mean that tourism is facing major economic losses if the closure of the border is maintained during Christ's ascension?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134039	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134047	Thank you for the question. In general terms, I would say that it is part of all the government's reflections on the reopening of Denmark, which economic consequences are associated with continued decommissioning. This is obviously one of the parameters we are looking at, which has been included in the assessment, when, together with the Danish Parliament's parties, we have given priority to the next phases of the reopening of Denmark. The government is therefore also very aware of the major economic challenges that border controls and entry restrictions pose to the tourism industry in the coming season, and the challenges of the tourism industry are also included in the government's reflections on the gradual and controlled reopening of Denmark. We must not forget, however, that if we reopen the borders too soon, we risk compromising the positive developments we have had in Denmark, so that in the worst case, parts of the reopening must be rolled back back or our health care comes under pressure. It is therefore important that there should be gradual and controlled reopening so that the spread of infection continues to be controlled. As the questioner is aware, the government, together with the Danish Parliament's parties, has concluded an agreement on the next phases of the reopening of Denmark. The agreement is precisely a priority, as unfortunately we cannot open up to all parts of Danish society at the same time. As stated in the agreement, the government will report on the entry restrictions by 1 June of this year in the light of the upcoming developments in Denmark and our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134217	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134218	We know that, after VisitDenmark's inventory, there is a turnover loss of 107 million. kr. daily, because tourists cannot be in Denmark. Now Germany is ready to open the border. Does it then have an influence on the government's assessments in relation to opening and e.g. ensure that tourists can be here in Christ's ascension, or what is the answer to the German Minister for the Interior, who is now calling for an answer from the Danish Government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134252	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134253	In fact, I spoke to the German Minister for the Interior about exactly this question and turned why it is that we are looking at the situation in such a way that we think we should have dialogue about the opening, but that we also have to take into account what kind of infection there might be and that we should not only have dialogue with the Germans, but also have dialogue with the other countries around us. Now I have not seen the quote, but if the Minister has said what he said when we talked, it will also be apparent from the interpretation that there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134330	Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134331	Can the Minister not be clearer about when something is going to happen? Is there any suggestion from the government that we are now going to start a border opening? I mean, I have heard the commitment of 1 June at the latest, but 1 June is about a very long time when you look at a loss of 107 million. kr. daily. So why is it that the Minister does not say that there is a German handout here, and now the Germans are interested in getting an agreement and then making a statement on the part of the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134410	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134411	There are several reasons for this. However, with regard to the dialogue with the Germans, it has been stressed that we also need to have a dialogue with our other neighbours on how this should be done. As the questioner mentioned earlier, the party colleague of the current questioner, there is also a situation, in terms of how we deal with Sweden, and a situation, in terms of how we deal with Norway, so we need to have a coordinated approach to how we do it. And why do we do that? That is because it will determine what pressure of infection we risk importing into Denmark and, at the same time, the economic loss that may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134450	Then it's the co-questioner, Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134451	Well, I'm afraid we'll be standing here again, and you can just multiply up. Now it was mentioned that there is a turnover loss of 107 million. kr. daily. We stood here at the end of seven days ago, so that is quite, quite substantial amount. And not only that it is money, it is also people of flesh and blood out there who are fighting for their business, their hotel or their summer cottage rental that have been in focus here. However, there is progress. The last time we were here, the Minister would not contact his German colleague, and then the Minister would not give an undertaking that the same would be done in parallel in Denmark as in Germany. So there are small mouse steps of progress, at least in the way we are discussing this. I would like to ask the Minister now, when it is so important that we have to discuss it with neighbouring countries, and it is good that why it is then that the Prime Minister has prioritised his thanks for that! ) made up of countries such as Israel, Greece, New Zealand and Australia, that is, countries that do not have the same economic importance as our neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134612	Then we need an answer from the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134613	But think what the turnover loss will be if we opened too soon and we had to shut down again. Imagine what the turnover loss will be if we send the parents back home. Imagine what the loss of costs will be if we have to turn Denmark back to the situation after 11 March. Imagine how much it'll cost! Imagine what the aid packages, if they are to be extended further, will cost. There's no free lunch here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134649	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134651	So, I would like to stress that we have at no time demanded that this should be done in a reckless manner in terms of health. The Minister also stressed last, a week ago, when we discussed this, that the decision to close the border was a political decision. And since that we have actually wanted to know what is the health background for maintaining a closure. So I would like to ask the Minister: what is it necessary for the government to be involved in opening up in parallel with what is happening in Germany?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134728	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134728-2	I am pleased that the questioner is saying and I assume that the questioner and the questioner share the view that this should be done in a health-friendly manner. If you take that view, it would be a neckless act at the same time to say that, therefore, we should simply uncritically open up to all entry because there is a health risk associated with opening the borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134757	Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen for the last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134759	Well, wouldn't the Minister please tell us what the difference is, is it a family from Schleswig-Holstein who is in the cottage on the West Coast, or is it a family from Copenhagen who is in the cottage? Everyone must respect the distance requirements, everyone must ensure that their hands are washed; they must follow the usual rules. And then it is that I find it difficult to understand what difference it makes, that it is a family from Schleswig-Holstein who gets to be in the country as tourists when we are allowed to be tourists inside Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134838	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134838-2	Either we are back to the lack of understanding of the prints, or we are simply back to the questioner not understanding that the more we enter Denmark, which is potentially infected with corona, the greater the risk of new chains of infection being set in motion, such as the ones we saw entering with the first tourists who had been to Austria and came home from skiing, and which meant that Denmark was laid down. Either it is one or the other of the faults that are being made or it is simply both but we will have enough opportunity to resolve it in the next question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134915	This is the end of the question. We continue with the Minister for Justice, and now it is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs who is the main questioner, and the questioner is Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134923	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134927	Thank you. Will the Minister state what the pressure of infection must be before the government gradually reopens the border?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134932	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513134933	Thank you for the question. I might as well start by saying that I am not going to give a concrete figure, and by the way, the latest thing I saw is that the German pressure of infection has risen to over 1 ■ as I remember it. I do not think that the expectation is that I will answer the question either. I do not know whether it spoke for a round which then goes out of the rounds since As you know, the question of the reopening of borders is an issue which needs to be looked at in the context of the general reopening of Denmark. In other words, we cannot look at all the requests for the reopening of Denmark in isolation. Because if you look only at the individual wishes separately, then I almost always think the answer will be: this will be relevant to open up to. But the individual elements cannot be seen separately; they are connected. After all, it is absolutely essential that we do not run the risk that the positive developments that we have had in Denmark will be put at risk. I am therefore also very pleased with the broad agreement reached by the government and the parties of the Folketing on a gradual and controlled reopening of Denmark, because there is no reason to hide that it is really difficult priorities when we have to choose the pace and order of reopening Denmark. As the questioner is aware, the agreement reached by the government with the parties of the Danish Parliament states that the government will announce the restrictions on entry by 1 June 2020. The government is, of course, following closely the development of the pressure of infection at home and developments in our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513135104	Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513135105	Thank you for your answer. I feel the opportunity to stress that we are not going to act irresponsibly and irresponsiblely, and that is why, of course, the whole thing needs to be done in terms of health. I would like to emphasise this point. I also assume that this applies to all other elements of the reopening of Danish society. At any rate, I have listened to this, in other words, that the Prime Minister has made the reservation that all of this presupposes that developments continue in a positive direction. This must of course also apply to the opening of the border; that is clear. I would like to make that clear. I still have to ask about the knowledge of what health, health and health calculations are underlying the government's insistence that the limit cannot be opened. And this is to be seen in the light of what Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen mentioned earlier, namely: What is the difference between one from the metropolitan area going to West Jutland and one from Northern Germany going to West Jutland? What effect will this have on the pressure of infection?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513135222	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513135223	Let me reply to the last part: the difference is that if we open the borders and say that now people from outside who are potentially infected can get in, they risk coming in and starting new chains of infection. That is why we are in danger of losing what we have achieved. This is not, of course, the same as not having to work with us, and we are doing so in dialogue with our neighbouring countries and within the government, how we can safely get near to opening our borders, as well as partially opening up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513135259	Ulla Tørnæs, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513135300	I must confess that I did not get much wiser from the answer here, and therefore I think that I will have to change track to use our time wisely. What will the Danish Government reply to Germany's request that has been sent, at least in public? What's the answer? Is that what we have heard here, or is it just that we cannot, or what will the answer be, since the Germans have announced that they are ready to open the border on 15 May?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513135338	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513135338-2	But the answer is that we do not want to have the border closed longer than the maximum necessary, because, as has also been mentioned by the questioner and the co-questioner, it has major economic consequences that we are in the situation we are in. However, the answer is that we must also coordinate with the other countries to which we have closed the borders, so that the opening which is taking place is coordinated and justified, which I also heard there was recognition, in other words that there should also be dialogue with the other neighbouring border countries, in order to ensure that this is done properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513135412	Then it's the co-questioner, Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513135413	Thank you. What did the Minister say to his German colleague about the conditions for opening the border? So, are there one, two, three conditions that apply? After all, the Minister should be aware that the pressure of infection is lower and, in particular, in Schleswig-Holstein, and that in Germany, in general, it has fallen back to less than one again. So what are some things that need to be done in order for Denmark to make an agreement with Germany to open the border?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513135446	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513135447	The questioner also knows the figures very well and, as I understand it, the pressure of infection in Germany is currently higher than the pressure of infection in Denmark. But that doesn't change the fact that you can't measure on the pressure of infection alone. There are, of course, a number of other factors, as this also relates to the question. And not least, even if you said that the pressure of infection was the same, you cannot say: then we open because then there are no risks. Because it's not like that. What is at risk is that if there are many people entering Denmark, everything else will be equally statistically some of them who are infected with corona, and if they start infection chains in Denmark, we risk compromising everything we have achieved. We must therefore think very carefully when opening the Danish borders. And that is exactly the kind of thinking that the government is doing now, and that is exactly the kind of thinking that we have with our other neighbouring countries, just as we have with Germany.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513135547	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513135548	So it is a question of the number that must come to Denmark. Then the Minister could make a quota and then say that there must be so many people on a daily or weekly basis, if that is what this is all about. That is in fact the only thing I hear the Minister say, that is that it is the number of people who are in Denmark as a whole that is being considered. The Prime Minister said yesterday that you should open the border in a wise and gifted way. And that is the answer: a wise and intelligent way is therefore a question of the number allowed to cross the border, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513135624	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513135625	No, it's not. I know the co-author well enough to know that the intellectual capacity is much, much greater with the co-author than to say this here. Thus, the number is relevant, the pressure of infection is relevant, but the wise solution is neither in number nor in the pressure of infection; it lies in a multitude of possibilities. Now the co-questioner mentioned the issue of quotas, so there are all sorts of different ways of doing this wisely. I am not saying anything about quotas at all, I am just saying that it mentioned the co-questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513135702	Then it is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513135705	Well then, let me ask the Minister whether it would not be wise and wise to consider having a lease for a Danish holiday home or for a campsite as a worthy purpose. At least the minister would have the answer to this whole crowd thing. So does the Minister agree that it would be a first step on the way to a wise and intelligent way of opening the borders, in other words to recognise a lease as a worthy purpose?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513135742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513135744	In fact, I think that is a sensible approach, instead of saying that either everything should be open or everything should be closed, I think it is sensible to say that we have to assess what the worthy purposes are. And that is where we have worked for worthy purposes, and we have, moreover, expanded what is worthy of recognition, and that is one of the things we could look at. At the moment, the assessment will probably be that if we said that everyone who has a lease in Denmark also has a worthy purpose, we would in fact be making an opening that is too fast right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513135816	Thank you to the authors. We're done with the question. We move on to the next question. It's still for the Minister of Justice, but now it's Mr. Knox. Peter Skaarup as the main questioner, and the co-questioner is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513135827	Here you go, sir. Peter Skaarup for reading the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513135831	Thank you. I shall read out the question here: can the Minister explain why two rules seem to apply to it at present? restricted freedom of assembly, where Danes who gather and, for example, play football together, are fined, while immigrant cubs with roots in the Middle East seem to be able to gather in large groups for funerals and joint prayers and general manifestations without police intervention?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513135858	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513135903	First of all, I would like to make it clear that the same rules apply to everyone, and this also applies, of course, to the rules and prohibitions laid down by the Minister for Health and the elderly with a view to limiting the spread of infection by corona virus. As the author is aware, it is, as a rule, prohibited to organise and participate in indoor and outdoor events, events and activities, or the like, where there are more than ten persons present. The ban includes, for example: outdoor football training and other sports and association activities. This means that such activities must take place in groups of a maximum of ten persons. In addition, the prohibition includes a joint prayer or the like with more than ten persons present. On the other hand, the ban on gatherings of more than ten persons does not include funerals and funerals; it applies both indoors and outdoors, as does both the church and other religions. In addition, meetings for political or other reasons must also be held, even if there are more than ten people involved. There may therefore be cases where gatherings of more than ten persons are not illegal and therefore the police do not intervene. However, in general, the police have launched a significantly increased patrol with a view to enforcing inter alia. the prohibition of assemblies of more than 10 persons. The police cannot be everywhere at once, but the police are making a great effort to enforce the rules consistently.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513140027	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513140029	Thank you. And thank you for your answer. When we have chosen to ask questions about this by the Danish People's Party, it is because we have seen and it is justified that the police have had to hand out fines in some situations where people have violated the rules adopted. Those are some tricky rules that you shouldn't gather too many people, max. Ten people, and so somebody can just figure out how to stick to that. When we look at certain Muslim groups in Denmark gathered for funerals, prayer meetings and the like, it must be said that it has been clear to everyone that the basic requirements we are talking about here have not been met, i.e. distance requirements, requirements relating to the number of persons gathered. Then it is the minister's saying and it is so right that as far as funeral processions are concerned, you may be more than ten persons. What is then the problem is that there are Danes who have experienced that it has been very difficult to be a sufficient number of people present in connection with some of the funerals that Danes have been part of in a church. And of course it is very, very bad, also because there have been changing signals and wrong answers have been given in the Folketing as far as that is concerned. What I would like to hear from the Minister for Justice is the incident that has also been taking place in the media regarding a prayer meeting in Gellerup in Aarhus. Because what is happening there is that it is clearly the case that the police have been made aware that there must be a prayer meeting and that it is evident that there are very many people gathered very close to each other, namely to prayer, but that the police seem to overlook it. I do not know the explanatory statement: whether there is a lack of resources or what it is, but I would like to ask the Minister for Justice whether the government will ensure that there is a bid to simply improve it, otherwise there is no equality before the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513140240	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513140242	I am not aware of the specific incident, but I note, however, that it is clear from an article published in B.T. on 11 May this year, the East Jutland Police have indicated that it was a mistake that the police arrived at the place only after the joint prayer had been interrupted. And I have also noted that the East Jutland Police are supposed to pay particular attention to similar events in the coming evenings.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513140310	Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513140312	I think it is very good that the Minister for Justice has noted here that it was a mistake not to be present. But it is part of the overall picture, where many Danes are deeply upset to see that you are taking hard action against small violations, while there are large groups that can assert their dominance, for example. in Gellerup, by driving around, holding prayer meetings and then also making a real prayer meeting where they do not comply at all. So will the Minister ensure that we have an investigation into how it can be that we do not get out and look into it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513140353	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513140355	Well, I can only distance myself from that. I can only distance myself from the fact that these rules are being broken. After all, we have made the rules to prevent the infection from spreading unnecessarily in the country. And we have made the rules in a way that all of us must sacrifice to ensure that our society can function, that we can take care of the weakest and that our health care can work. So there is every reason to distance ourselves from the breaches of the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513140424	Then it is the co-questioner, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Here you go. One minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513140430	Thank you. I am a little surprised, therefore, when the Minister says that he has not just examined the specific case. I think I would definitely do that if I were Minister of Justice. There's been so much writing about this particular case. I would be unhappy with the way it is handled. So there I think the Minister should do his work again and really examine the specific case which has been so mentioned in the press. I just have to say that thank God it wasn't a terrible violent incident or a killing that was going on when the police came a little too late out the door and even went into such a minor accident. So, everything went wrong when you had to go out to this big assembly, hopefully to say: that is simply not possible, because we have some guidelines that we have to follow in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513140525	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513140527	But as I indicated before, and as I indicated before,
ParlaMint-DK_20200513140542	Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513140544	Will the Minister investigate the specific case? I think that is simply an official duty to do, that is to say to grab hold of the chief of police and say that this is simply not going to work, rather than just saying: well, that is something bad in general. Then I have to say to the explanation given and made a lot of sense by the Minister that, whether it be church or Muslim funerals, the rules are the same, say: Yes, yes, but it is very rare if ever that you see a large assembly perform the whole funeral outdoors. There you first have a church stay, and then you can no longer gather when you go outdoors, but you can go there, and it is mostly Muslim funerals that take place in this way. So you must have been prepared somehow. But I'm really sorry that you take it that way, I think, a little too easy for the police to come out this late.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513140635	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513140637	I simply do not agree with that. So, as I also said, during this period of time when we are in the Corona situation, the police have launched a significantly increased patrol with a view to precisely enforcing the ban on assemblies of more than ten people. As I said, the police cannot be present everywhere at once, but the police are doing a huge amount of work in these times to enforce the rules consistently, and I really think that the great work done by the police should be recognised.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513140710	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513140716	Now I really think we have sometimes asked both Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and I about this incident, where the police seem to have a road accident that makes them unable to get there with a wagon, which then makes them unable to enforce law and order against those who clearly do not comply with what everyone else has to observe in our society right now. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister for Justice and I would ask him to reply: will the Minister for Justice contact the East Jutland Police and ask for a statement and make it clear that it must of course never happen again that people are discriminated against in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513140754	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513140756	Well, East Jutland Police has but it is, I would like to say, a priority for the government to ensure that this type of breach of the rules we've made doesn't happen. It is important that we enforce the rules that we have laid down.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513140828	The question is over. Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister for Justice. The next question is to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, and that is what Mrs Matthiesen is asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513140838	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513140839	Thank you. Will the Minister comment on whether she takes seriously the concerns that are told by a parent in Politiken's article...Four years after an anonymous announcement that Laura beats her son, she dares not get help from the municipality for the son's diagnosis... brought on 6 May 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513140901	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513140902	Of course, I take it seriously when parents feel mistreated or when municipalities make mistakes. And I can easily understand that it is unpleasant if, as parents, you experience that a notification of your child is being made. Therefore, notifications and investigations about them must be carried out as gently as possible, and cases must be closed down if it turns out that there is nothing in them and that they were unfounded. I also believe that we have a joint responsibility not to overdramatise notifications. Information does not necessarily mean that something is wrong and information is not the same as social action. A notification is an expression of concern for a child to be examined by the municipality. If it turns out that there is no hold on the concern, yes, then of course the municipality should not do any more. The fact that the municipality has a duty to investigate matters further is absolutely essential for us to take care of the children who need help and who, in too many cases, are still flying under the radar today. Of course it is not funny if you as a well-functioning family experience that the municipality will investigate your relationship, but I still agree with Rasmus Kjeldahl from Children's Conditions when he says he would rather see ten notifications too much than one too little. Because if that means that there are more children that we can get helped in the past, children who grow up with full parents who cannot take care of them, with violence or other forms of neglect in their homes, well, then I think it is a price worth paying that there may be notifications that are investigated and found groundless and thus also quickly being shut down. That is why I do not see it as a problem, from the outset, that we have seen an increase in the number of notifications about children. On the other hand, I believe that this is an expression of greater attention to vulnerable children and young people; I do not have the exact figures with me here, but I would say that the increase in anonymous information has not been as great as the overall increase in the number of notifications.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513141111	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513141112	Thank you. I received the answer I had actually expected, also from the statements made by the Minister himself in various media. And I would like to stress here that we all think it is important that we take care of the children, and it is important that we also discover if it is the case that children are, frankly, subjected to abuse or violence or the like. But where I am going a little bit is the fact that we also have an obligation to look after the parents. I know that there are parents who do not treat their children properly, and of course they must be informed, and of course we must do everything we can to stop those cases. But when is that too much? In other words, how many parents should be misreported to the municipality, either because they have beaten their children or because of claims that domestic violence has been committed, without there really is, before the Minister thinks it might be that we should look at the law again? So, are there things that we can also do better from Christiansborg in terms of reducing the number of bug notifications?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513141232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513141233	In nine out of ten placement cases there has been a notification on the child, and this says something about how important notifications are to get hold of the children who are miserable. And I think everyone who sits in the children and youth committees out there and who has to do with the stuffing will nod to recognize that the children who are exposed to the most severe neglect are subjected to atrocities: children who are put on hot plates; children who are burned with cigarette shutters; parents who are so drunk that they cannot make sure that the children are fed because the amount of beer in the fridge absorbs them. It is so important that we, as a society, catch all those children, and information is absolutely crucial. And that is why it is positive that we see more notifications in these years.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513141315	Here you go, Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513141317	I shall try in another way: does the Minister not think that at some point it might be obvious to look at whether there are things that can be done better? Now I know that the Minister himself has three children, just as I do, and I can understand what it is that parents feel if they are suddenly asked to explain that they have done nothing evil to their children and that those scars can also sit there for perhaps the rest of their lives. Could we not do something better so that the number of parents who are called to a meeting, frankly speaking, will be smaller?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513141354	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513141354-2	As I also said in my introductory answer on the specific cases that have been raised in Politiken, there are a few of the stories that I remember them, where the municipality subsequently said: it was too badly handled by us; we went too far, or we were too slow to shut down a case, or we did not notice that it turned out to be an unjustified notification. Of course, that's not okay. I think there's a lot we can do better in this area. I believe, for example, that we can be much better at bringing out the child's own voice more clearly. This applies both to children who are actually exposed to failures and who are currently flying under the radar, but also to those who actually have nothing to do with the notifications. It is, of course, important that these cases are closed down quickly and that, should there be any harassment of information, the municipalities should also be noted so that they do not suffer for a long time as a parent.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513141439	Then it is Mrs Anni Mattiesen on the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513141440	The last question will be so easy for the Minister to answer either yes or no to: does the Minister believe that there may be a need to evaluate this law?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513141449	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513141450	On the basis of both the questions here and the writings in Politiken, I think we need at least to be made clear that a significant part of the increase in the number of notifications is about the fact that we have gained better data quality. In fact, I believe that the stories in Politiken and the figures that have been used, and that is not Politiken's fault, do not necessarily give an accurate enough picture. The reality is that municipalities have improved to record the reasons for notification, and if there are several reasons for notification on the same child, each reason counts as a notification. So I would like to help uncover how the figures are really related. I agree that things need to be handled properly, but the most important thing is that we get more information so that we can help more children.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513141531	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. The next question remains for the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, but now it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Dansk Folkeparti, who is asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513141538	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513141540	Thank you. Will the Minister explain when his relatives can be visited on the country's accommodation offer, including when the Minister intends to implement the agreement reached between the parties on initiatives for vulnerable and vulnerable groups in connection with the covid-19?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513141558	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513141559	Thank you for your question, which I would very much like to answer, because I know that there is also great impatience in the accommodation offers in terms of being able to receive visits from family and relatives again. It has been of great importance to the residents of our accommodation offer that they have not been able to receive visits from their close and loved ones. Since we reached the political agreement on the relaxation of the visit restrictions on 25 April, we have been working on the basis of a determined change in the rules in force. These have been discussed in the sectoral social partnership. I also discussed the facilitations with the political parties a few hours ago, which was part of the political agreement that I had to. Fortunately, we could reach agreement, and that also means that the relaxations and the new rules can come into force today. The new notice will be published later today, together with a thorough letter of orientation which will be followed by social and health guidelines. So visits can, in principle, be carried out from today when the new rules come into force. It is, of course, important, and it has been for all the parties to the agreement, including the questioner himself, that the visits are carried out taking into account the health guidelines, and therefore seven days have been given from today to put the practical conditions of the visits in place. So some places may take a few more days before you can have visitors, but the places where they are in place with it and I know they are in some places they can start even later today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513141725	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513141726	The reason why I have called the Minister for Question Time is that nothing has happened since 25 April when we made that agreement. And then it is true that the day before yesterday we had a call for a discussion about this. I just have to say that on 1 May the Minister amended the announcement so that children placed with them could have association with their parents. It was under a lot of pressure. The Danish People's Party had written to the Minister many times. At the same time, it was not decided to relax the visit restrictions on the accommodation offers, which may surprise us, because the agreement states that work on the new notice will start immediately after the conclusion of the agreement and it will take several weeks before that happens. Yesterday you could read on DR's news: "Frede is under development and has a birthday. He'll have to look far behind the family. The family has not had the opportunity to visit. Then, of course, there is also the essential element in this when it comes to housing offers, namely that we are talking about people's own homes. I have to say there too that even if you live on a settlement offer, you are not in detention, and there we have lacked a positive list of what you can do. Can you get out? Can You Visit Your Family? And apparently there is wild confusion about what is possible. I know, of course, that the Minister wrote out at the time, that the resident could come out for a visit and that one should also be open to take the resident back on the offer. But at the same time, it's just something else we hear from the reports we get. There is a need to relax in this area so that you can also have a visit to the accommodation offers. Now we in the Danish People's Party are so worried that I also said so to the Minister himself at this meeting that was held a few hours ago in relation to the fact that we have 98 municipalities, because the starting point must be that everyone must be entitled to visit outdoor areas, of course according to health guidelines
ParlaMint-DK_20200513141934	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513141935	In fact, I do not quite know what the questioner was asking. The questioner was wide-ranging and also said many things, which are factually wrong. The questioner knows that it is factually wrong that nothing has happened since we concluded the agreement on 25 April. I have examined this at a meeting just a few hours ago; I examined it in my answer here. It was part of the political agreement that there should be no relaxation of the visiting restrictions until we could do so in a way that would meet the health guidelines. Among other things: It was also part of the agreement that we had to consult the rapporteurs again. It's so crucial to me and to the whole area that we haven't seen any spread of infection on our settlement offer. I think we should all praise ourselves for this and that is why we have to stick to the fact that things have to be balanced here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513142017	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513142018	Thank you. It is not at all factually wrong that the long period of time has passed and that the Minister only calls here the day before yesterday after she met with an oral question during the Question Time. It is not at all factually wrong. We must not refer to the negotiations, but in the course of the negotiations I was given the impression by the Minister that this was about making an amendment to the regulation and that it would be done quite quickly before it could be done. We could see the Minister doing that on 1 May, because there amended the Minister's order so that children placed could see their families, but the Minister then chose not to take the offers in that case.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513142057	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513142057-2	But that is not true, because it has always been clear that there were two steps in changing the notices. The first could be done immediately, and we did so immediately and, as I see it, in agreement, the parties and the government. I think that the other parties do not really recognize the picture that it should be the Danish People's Party that had particularly got the relaxations through. However, the second part of the amendment to the regulation, which deals with the visit restrictions, has always known that we had a different time perspective than the first relaxation. I am sorry if the questioner has not taken it down from the negotiations, but it has not at any time been the case that just a snap could change in relation to the visitor restrictions, because the health guidelines should be able to follow.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513142136	Mrs Karina Adsbøl, on the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513142137	After all, we have been blindfolded because we have not had the health guidelines. We're making a deal, and the expectation is that it'll be quick. I know that I am not the only rapporteur who thinks that this has gone too slowly and that it has been a slow process in terms of changing the notice. I know that all the rapporteurs are very interested in this area, including in ensuring that visitors can be visited. But then I would like to ask the Minister for the last time: can the Minister then ensure that all the country's accommodation offers will make every effort to open up visits to follow the health guidelines as well, or will we see municipalities that do not open up to visits to the accommodation offers?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513142218	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513142218-2	I do not know what kind of mission the questioner is up to here today. I can also say that it was not the day before yesterday that was called for today's sitting. It was 6 May and, as you know, it was not the day before yesterday. This has been slow, I agree, and I have also expressed this earlier today, but it is because we need health care measures to be in place before we open up visits to an area where there are vulnerable citizens and where, fortunately, we have been able to keep out the spread of infection. It is also important to continue to do so, and I hope the rapporteur will agree with me on that. At the same time, I welcome the fact that here later today we are opening a visit to the country's settlement offer. And yes, of course I will be deeply concerned that it will be a reality throughout the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513142255	The question has been closed and I would like to say once again that the most difficult to manage on Wednesday are the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior and Mrs Karina Adsbøl, because it is under way. We move on to the next question, and that is to the Minister for Tax, by Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513142309	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513142323	Will the Minister change the rules in force so that foreign dancers who have been called back today because of the corona crisis and therefore at the moment? is staying in Denmark, is not being affected by increased taxation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513142339	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513142340	Thank you for that, President. Thank you very much for the question. There is no doubt that the closure of Denmark is due to what the questioner also asks, i.e. the corona crisis, among other things. has led to major restrictions on where a person can stay and where the work can also be done from, and how a company can run its business at all. We see plenty of examples of this on a daily basis, unfortunately. As I have said before, I think it would be sensible to look at measures that can mitigate some of the consequences of people staying in Denmark for a long time because of the covid-19 crisis. A longer stay in Denmark during the corona crisis can of course have an impact on foreign dancers living abroad because they risk becoming fully taxable in Denmark. A longer stay in Denmark can also have an impact on whether, among other things, it is possible to find a place in Denmark. posted Danes with family and residence in this country may continue to be subject to the special rules on light taxation of foreign wage income. These are the rules which the questioner may know are contained in what is called Paragraph 33 A of the equation law. I understand, of course, that affected persons want answers to whether the rules in force here will be changed, so that they will not be fully taxable in Denmark or will lose the light tax on their foreign income if they exceed the limits of what is central here: how long one can stay in Denmark. There is no doubt that the crisis we are in now has major consequences for Danish society as a whole. The government has in the first instance launched a series of huge aid packages for a total of 400 billion. kr. to Danish employees and Danish business. It has been necessary to ensure that these aid packages came to the world as quickly as possible to ensure that the Danish economy could get through the crisis better. So the government has two ways of dealing with this crisis. Right now, we are holding hands under Danish economy and Danish jobs, and as society opens up again, yes, we must put in place, if you like, targeted growth packages. But overall, I would like to take part in looking at new initiatives which can also remedy this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513142558	Mrs. Anne Honoré Østergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513142601	Now it is the first time we have discussed this in this Chamber, but it is not entirely new, because my party colleague has asked a question about this in the past. In addition, I have asked a question and there I was given the happy answer that the Minister was thinking about what could happen in this area because one could see the problem. Then I asked a new question about the time horizon in this and when the Minister had finished thinking about it, and I could not get a time horizon on that. I simply cannot understand that, because the matter is actually quite simple. These are some people who have travelled abroad, either firmly or not so firmly, and they have been called home. We must then have done something about this so that they do not run the risk of being taxed both in the country in which they have been resident and now also in Denmark. To take a small example from reality: For one group of people it is 42 days; they have left. For the second group, it is 180 days, and someone named Torben is part of it. Torben is an ethnic Dane. He is in the middle of his 40s, born and raised here in Denmark, but suffers from a skin disease. Torben is then told that the best thing for him is to live in a place where there is a little better weather than there is in Denmark. That's why he's going to Spain. He does this in 2014, and he has complied with all the rules now available with the 180-day rule, etc., and has only been at home in Denmark once in a while. But on 7 March 2020 Torben flies to Denmark, where he will visit family and friends for a period of 16 days. On 11 March, Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen will close the country, including the Danish borders from 14 March 2020. Torben sees the minister's press release and thinks: I'd better stay home. But time passes, time passes. So what's Torben gonna do now because he's only allowed to be home 14 more days?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513142811	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513142812	That's right. I have also been asked myself, and that is also why I have several times signed for them to the questioner and others, and of course I have said that this is one of the things we are looking at. For it is clear that there are several different angles to how one's everyday life situation is affected by the terrible crisis we are in. So we are looking at it and it is something that we are looking at, also in the context of the other initiatives that are there. I am quite convinced that the author's party will also be invited to further discuss the overall initiatives on how to move forward on the other side of this crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513142851	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513142852	But let me just ask this: should Torben stay in Denmark and risk double taxation, or can the Minister give an assurance that this will not happen? Or is he going to Spain here in 14 days and risk getting infected with corona down there? Or what should Torben do?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513142910	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513142911	The questioner knows very well that I cannot answer such a single case. You are very welcome to send it over to me as a question, of course. But I can say in general terms that we're looking at this. This is one element of the many things that we face when we look at the challenges arising from the crisis. So that is what I can answer at this stage. It is not a rejection of it; on the contrary, it is a desire to try to look at it so that it is also properly treated.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513142933	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513142934	It's always nice when something is being treated properly, but we've rushed through a lot of things, and we have some people who do not know what to stand on right now, because this is very much affecting their economy. So should they risk infection and travel, or should they stay here in safe Denmark until we have a slightly safer situation? Can we not find a common solution to this rather quickly so that they are no longer in doubt?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513142958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513142959	As I said, there will be discussions on what to do in the future, and that is where we think this discussion belongs. What we are looking at is, if you will, the tax part of it. That's what we're looking at. And that's quite relevant. It is not only in the case in question, it is also other large Danish companies that have got into the same problem not only here in the country, but also outside the country's borders. But we are looking at it with Danish eyes and it will be one of the things that will be included in the further discussions we have and in which I feel quite convinced that the author's party will also be involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513143032	Thank you for that and thank you to the author, Mrs Honoré Østergaard. The next question we have is, sir. Kim Valentin, who has to ask questions to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513143043	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513143045	Thank you, Mr President. What initiatives will the Minister take to reverse the negative development of debt to the public sector which, even before the Corona crisis, grew, without the prospect of the state being able to recover the money owed to citizens and businesses?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513143107	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513143108	Thank you for the question. Unfortunately, it is no secret that public debt collection has been challenged for several years, one can say calmly and that the debt to the public today is at a historically high level. I also note that the collapse of debt in autumn 2015 is continuing to pull the plug, but at the same time I am pleased, I must say that the work on restoring the entire debt area is in good shape. Of course, there is still some way to go, but with the final development of the new recovery system and the linking of more than half of the public creditors, significant milestones have actually been reached. Having said that, however, one must of course also face up to the fact that, with the current legislative framework for the recovery of public debt, there is the prospect that debt will continue to rise despite full recovery in the area of debt. The tax administration, as it is called, recovers debts on behalf of all public creditors. This means that, in addition to recovering unpaid taxes and taxes from citizens and companies, the Tax Administration also recovers everything from unpaid library fees to child support, su, train and police fines. When the debt ends up for recovery from the Tax Administration, it has already been unsuccessfully tried to be charged to debtors. By the end of 2019 more than 1 million Danes owed more than 100 billion. kr. to the public sector. This is equivalent to the fact that one in five Danes has debts to the public sector. The Debt Board, as the rules are today, is cut off from recovering debts from one third of the debtors. It is by its very nature untenable that debt should continue to rise because people do not pay what they owe to the community. It challenges the tax morality that we have in Denmark, which is high, and that is also the expectation that we have, that everyone is responding to theirs, while, of course, it also helps to weaken confidence in the tax administration. That is why I have called for wide-ranging discussions in the Folketing. We have a broad circle of conciliation and agreement which sits and discusses it here. There is no doubt that if this is to be changed, we must also change both the tool and the legislation in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513143327	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513143328	Thank you, Minister. I am actually very pleased about that answer, because it is very much in line with what I would like to ask further. I am sure that there can also be a good connection between what we mean on our side and what the Minister thinks on his side. For what is at the root here is this social contract, which in reality is such that if those who pay on time and do their duty and all these things do not see that all those who do not do so are somehow punished, or at least come a little after them in a proper way, then you fail that social contract both on the one hand and on the other. And then morals end up in the end. There are those who can't, and then there are those who won't. If you're one of those who can't, yes, it's hard to pick your hair off a bald one. And then there are those who don't want to. These are the ones we need to pay particular attention to in this context. How many of them are among those who owe the 129 billion. It is a figure that has increased by 11 billion. kr. I mean, over the last year, it's hard to say. 129 billion kr., what is it? That's a lot of money. In comparison, we spent 42.6 billion. kr. at primary school. We spent 9.6 billion. kr. in hospitals for cancer treatment. 129 billion kr. In other words, it corresponds to the cancer treatment for 13 years. So it's not change we're dealing with here. That is why I would like to ask the Minister: what is the Minister's position that the debt will continue to grow, even though, as the Minister says, the recovery system has actually improved a little?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513143522	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513143523	But it is untenable, and it is nothing new for the author's party that the debt continues to grow. Indeed, it did so under the government of that time. But that is not an excuse, because we have a common challenge. I think it has to be said that when you look at it, it is a whole area of management that has collapsed. That is the reality. It takes time to rebuild it. It costs a lot of money to rebuild it. We are still getting debts from these public creditors who are in error, and it takes a huge amount of time to find out exactly what data it is. So there's a huge recovery work going on now. We shall continue to do so, and I hope that the author's party will also have an interest in participating in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513143611	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513143611-2	I'm absolutely sure of it. One cannot enter a series of questions at the moment without mentioning corona, and that is why I am doing it here too. I do, of course, because there are so many VAT credits and tax credits out there at the moment. That is why I have to ask the Minister something. Hopefully it is not the case that the Minister believes that all the money sent out in VAT and tax credits will only come back by 20%, because that is what they are doing at the moment on everything else. Did the Minister count on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513143647	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513143648	It is true that when you look at the credits and guarantees that have been given and deferred payment periods that have been given, especially in the field of taxation, then the tax administration stands for approx. 200 billion kr., i.e. about half of the aid packages there are. It is clear that this is of course something which, with the uncertainty surrounding the Danish and international and European economies, can cause some concern in relation to how many people are going through this crisis. However, the government's position has been that we should keep our hands on Danish employees and Danish jobs and ensure that they get out of the crisis in the best possible way. After all, we cannot deny that some people are going bankrupt and that they are going into debt, but my view is that it is not exactly the author's party that has held back with the wish that the money should go out as soon as possible, almost before any of the checks that are necessary in this context had been carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513143740	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513143741	Now it is probably more important to get them back in, because it is good enough that they come out and help. After all, I have experience as mayor, and one of the things that you can do is that you can involve those who really know something about citizens and businesses. So my final question is: is it the case that the Minister has thought of perhaps involving the municipalities in the recovery of some of these debts?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513143811	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513143812	The questioner can be absolutely sure of that. I wish all the municipalities would just connect to the system. I mean, the system's working now. I cannot answer on a stand-by basis whether the questioner's own municipality is, so to speak, already connected to the system. You can start by doing that. 'Cause it's very effective. It's automatic wage retention. So I would urge that the questioner take this back... is the questioner's home municipality connected to the system? Otherwise, there is an opportunity. That's one. The next question you can ask is whether you are sure that the things you pass on to the Tax Administration, to the Debt Authority, to recovery, are completely flawless when they are sent off. Unfortunately, experience shows that they are not. So there is much we can do together, but I am in very close dialogue with the municipalities, and I hope that we will soon get all the municipalities connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513143901	Thank you. The question is closed. Thank you, sir. Kim Valentin. We will continue with questions to the Minister for Taxation, and this time it is Mrs Bjerre who has to ask questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513143910	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513143911	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that companies receiving donations obtained by public collection and given to companies as financial support in the context of this corona crisis should be taxed on this donation and should this donation be paid to companies without offsetting payments from state corona-related aid packages?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513143934	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513143936	Thank you, President, and thank you for the question. First of all, I would like to say that I think it is actually quite impressive to see all the initiatives that are taking place right now throughout the country and which are, of course, intended to keep their hands on the many small businesses that are around our dear country. It is gratifying to see that there are so many people who would like to support, not least in our local communities, about local businessmen. The government is also constantly looking at what measures may be useful to remedy the current economic crisis and is, of course, concerned, as I have just said, with holding hands under both Danish employees and Danish companies. That is why the government, with broad support here in the Folketing, has also established a large number of financial aid packages. In the territory of the Ministry of Taxation alone, deferred payment periods and additional liquidity have been granted to companies of the order of 200 billion. kr. As far as taxation is concerned, it is clear from the outset that the funds received by a company are taxable. This also applies to donations from private initiatives such as public collections, and I believe that taxation of such donations is quite natural and also reasonable. Similar taxation also applies to payments made to companies through state aid packages, and I also believe that it is sensible to take into account in this context, with the State aid packages, that a company may have some of its losses covered in a different way. In my opinion, taxation should also be seen in the context of the fact that donations are intended to constitute a form of compensation for a loss of income in the company, and such income would also have been taxable if the company had received it, if you like, in the normal way. It is also worth noting that the payments made to companies will often be used to cover deductible costs such as: expenditure on staff salaries or rent. In these cases, the taxation of donations in this way will not actually trigger a tax payment. Finally, I must admit that, in many situations, companies hard hit by the crisis are hardly going to have a positive taxable profit this year. In other words, taxation is probably not the biggest problem for companies. But overall, there is no doubt that the many initiatives that are being taken are positive and, on the part of the government, we have secured additional liquidity in the region of as much as 200 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513144202	Then it's Mrs. Marie Bjerre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513144204	Thank you for your answer. I share the satisfaction of the many initiatives that have been taken to help businesses, but I am a little sorry about the response to this particular initiative. After all, there has been some uncertainty as to whether donations were taxable. I think it started with Søren Brostrøm, who sent a donation to his hairdresser without having been cut, and now the question was whether the hairdresser could accept this donation... if it was taxable. Was it taxable as a gift or taxable as a prepayment? The answer given by the Minister today does not fully answer my question, because I notice that the Minister says that it is basically taxable income. But I am also aware that a number of special rules apply if donations have been made in the event of accident, disaster, injury, etc., not on the initiative of the recipient, as a one-off payment, etc., and I really had hoped that the Minister would say today that one would like to see how one could get these donations under such a special rule, so that there was certainty that they were just tax-free. But I also hear the Minister say that the Minister really thinks it is right that there should be no tax exemption, and I think that is a pity, because there are very many people who want to support local shops. Where I come from, the challenge is that if a store closes, there won't be a new one. On the other hand, there is a very persistent civil society that supports local entrepreneurs, and I am quite sure that there are a lot of citizens who are networks, there are other companies that want to support, and I really think that we should encourage them to do so, that they support it locally, instead of using Community money. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513144346	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513144347	Thank you for that, President. Well, first of all, it's true that there are different rules for these different types of donations. If you are in doubt, you are always welcome to turn to the Tax Administration, and then you will get an answer as to which shelf it fits in with, so to speak. In general, however, I believe that the right thing to do is to deal with it in this way, because the donations that you get, as I said, cover expenses which, in other words, if you had received them in the normal way, would be taxable. So that is the general view, but it is clear that if you have questions about certain donations or certain collections, whether they are taxable or not, you are of course welcome to turn to the Tax Administration and get answers to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513144433	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513144434	It is true that there have been doubts about these donations, but I also hear the Minister's reply that it is reasonable for the Minister to apply tax obligations to such donations; that at least no special rules will be taken into account so that there is tax exemption for donations given in connection with the corona crisis. That brings me to my next question. I have noticed that the government has launched a national platform to make some collections. Has any consideration been given to whether tax exemptions should apply or at least that there should be no set-off in the amounts obtained from the aid packages?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513144512	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513144514	Well, if it is the platform that is about crowdfunding, it is a completely different matter, and therefore it is not comparable at all. This is about donations that are collected, which you give to a company, and which then help to pay for, for example, expenses for employees, liability for inventory, rent or other items. That's another case. But the questioner is welcome to ask how it is quite specific in relation to what I think you are asking about, i.e. the idea that, together with the Danish Industry, I think, you are creating a platform for crowdfunding.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513144552	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513144553	I find it hard to see why this is another case. Now you go in from the state and create a national collection platform where you just encourage some donations to companies. However, it may be that the Minister can reply to the question of tax treatment for donations that are to be collected there: is there tax exemption or tax liability? And then the final question: will there be a set-off against the aid that companies may receive from the aid packages?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513144616	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513144617	Compared to the first: Crowdfunding is not a new phenomenon, fortunately. It exists and is part of the entrepreneurial environment. There are, of course, clear tax rules for this. If you want to explain it, you should very much like to ask a question in committee, and we can of course explain it. It is clear, then, that when you sit and look at the aid packages, there is of course, following on from the question that was asked earlier about debt, whether it is people who owe public money, for example. If you have a debt to the public, it is an example of a set-off, because then it will be deducted before you receive the rest. So, of course, there's a check going on at least in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513144657	Thank you. The question is over. We will continue with the same partner couple, namely the Minister of Taxation and Mrs Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513144704	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513144705	So on a completely different matter: With reference to the discussion post in the Stock Exchange on 5 May 2020 • Let the business community pay the right electricity tax from the start • What impression does it make that a total Danish business community now proposes that VAT-registered companies should pay the right rate for the electricity tax immediately instead of the current electricity tax system, which binds the companies' liquidity with the state for a period of time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513144732	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513144733	Thank you very much for this question too. Let me start by saying that I am of course impressed when interested organisations and companies draw attention to problems in the legislation, even when it is raised on Wednesday issues in this Chamber. It is very good that we can have a discussion about this particularly in this difficult situation, where there is a great deal of pressure on Danish business, I actually appreciate that we are getting the proposals on how we can address some of the major challenges that are due to the corona crisis and the difficulties it has brought about. Basically, I understand that the current system, in which companies first have to pay electricity tax to the state and then get a large part of it back, may seem a little out of date, but also a little molboyish. However, there are good reasons why the system is designed as it is, and it is not possible within the existing framework to implement the proposal on what it is about, i.e. net settlement. Indeed, the electricity tax is not directly levied by the State but by the companies selling electricity to individual customers. Customers can be both households, but they can also be professions. The electricity tax contains different rates where households pay the highest rate. In addition, a lower tax rate exists for electricity used for heating and the lowest rate is for so-called process consumption. For companies it can be a mix of all three tax rates. For example: a company can have both process and heat consumption, or the company can be related to the dwelling, which is why there is compensation for some of the consumption, but not for anything else. It can, for example, be done. often be the case for farm buildings and for rents for accommodation such as: Bed and breakfast, as it is called. It is only the individual company that knows the distribution of its electricity consumption and thus which tax is ultimately payable. That is why the electricity tax is initially levied at a uniformly high rate, and that is also why the drawback system is established as it is. It is also a system which exists for other tax rates.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513144946	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513144947	Thank you for your answer. The proposal here has been made before from Dansk Energi, and now it is a Danish business community that is making this proposal. I am pleased to hear that the Minister is impressed and that we have the debate here today. After all, it seems somewhat inappropriate to charge a significantly higher tax and then to refund the vast majority of it. Well, it's kind of 89.2 cents per. kilowatt-time charged, while many companies only have to pay 0.4 øre per year. kilowatt-hour. So it is 220 times more that is charged. I am also pleased that the Minister says that the Minister basically agrees that it is inappropriate, but then there are a lot of practicalities in relation to changing it. Now it is the case that not many companies pay only the low tax, as I understand it, so it might seem as if time has run out of this system. Today, only eight sectors of the liberal professions do not pay the low electricity tax, and they are not very large electricity consumers. So I don't know if time has run out of this system... can the minister answer that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513145059	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513145100	There is no doubt about that, and I think we can agree that it is an ingenious system that has been established. And as I said, it may seem a little out-of-date, but also molbo-like, that you have to pay in a large amount of money, and then you get money back because there are these different rates, and it is then calculated according to the different rates that both your payment and hence your refund, if you like. It would not surprise me if it were a question that was also raised under the previous government, and I would not be surprised if the former minister of the author's own party color had replied largely the same as I am answering here. And that's because, despite everything that may seem obsolete, it's now the easiest way to deal with this issue when it's so differentiated rates we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513145151	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513145152	Yes, it has to be said that it is a rather ingenious system that has been created here, but that is precisely why we must work to change it and make it simpler for our companies, even at a time when they need something more liquidity, especially right now. Therefore, I would like to know whether the Minister intends or will initiate such development work to look at another system, especially in view of the fact that the 2018 Energy Agreement has agreed that liberal professions, which pay the high electricity tax, from 2023, will also have to pay the low. In other words, there is no business left to pay the high electricity tax. I assume that one then agrees that only the actual tax will be levied at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513145235	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513145236	Well, I would like to shake hands with the fact that I would like to help look at what is behind this and why it has not been changed in the past and then look at what the challenges are. Because there's no doubt that whatever party color the tax minister over here at this part of the benches has, there's gonna be this challenge. So I would very much like to shake hands with the fact that we are trying to look at it, but I also think that one should be careful not to put one's nose up too high after there is just such a quick fix, because then I actually think that it had been found before. But I would very much like to contribute to this handshake, because there is no doubt that the way it is going may seem rather neatly complicated and perhaps a little molbo-like, but in the situation here and with the complexity that is in the system and which is built around the tax rates, it is the best possible way to solve it at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513145321	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513145323	I would very much like to sign that handshake because it seems crazy to have such a system here. However, I would also like to have the Minister's answer and comment on this because the energy agreement has removed the high electricity tax for the liberal professions from 2023. So, at that time, in 2023, we don't have a profession that pays the high electricity tax anymore. What do you want there? Does this mean that only the actual tax is to be levied? And if that is the case: will you look at perhaps bringing it forward to today, so that we have a simpler system?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513145400	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513145402	This can be said a little outside of the question that has been asked, but I would suggest that this is one of the things that the questioner takes to the table when it comes to discussing what is to happen to the energy agreement that he himself made when he was in government. I think we should try to look at that and there we can take up this question too. And then we can try to see if it's something that's been considered before. I would be very surprised if that were not the case, but then we should try to see what the reasons were for not changing it when you were in government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513145426	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. Thank you, Mrs Bjerre. We move on to the next question, which is Question No. S 1112 submitted by Mrs Mai Villadsen to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513145447	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513145450	Thank you. Can the Minister guarantee negotiations for a green relaunch of the economy before the summer break, and does the Minister agree with the Climate Council that the risk of socio-economic losses is high if the green transition and the recovery of the economy are not reduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513145511	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513145513	Thank you for a very good and relevant question. The short answer could be yes. I can guarantee that all the time we're already at it. As the questioner will know, the government has proposed spending 30 billion. kr. for renovation in the general housing sector with green sign. This means that the money must be spent in a way that not only creates better housing and creates plenty of jobs, but actually also makes a difference to the climate. As the proposal now stands, and as it has not been negotiated, we expect it to be able to deliver energy savings equivalent to what it takes to heat up 40,000 apartments, and that is something that is worth noting. So we are in the process, and there is also more on the part of the government. As the Prime Minister has also assured the author's party here from the platform in the Chamber, it will be a mistake of the government if you do not think sustainability into a fundamental principle in the rebooting of the Danish economy that is to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513145613	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513145614	Thank you very much for your answer, I would like to say to the Minister. It is quite true that we are both currently in some residential negotiations with a green sign. We in Enhedslisten are very happy about that. It can be said that even before the Corona crisis and the economic crisis that came, there was a need to speed up the green transition so that we can meet the goal we have jointly committed ourselves to of 70% reduction of climate gases by 2030. After all, it is important that we get to grips with the right things now, which is why I am also a little impatient. One is the conversion of the housing stock, in particular the general housing. It has to happen and it has to happen quickly and can create a lot of jobs, but we also have to get on with other sectors. There are plenty of jobs in the whole energy sector. In general, there are jobs throughout society if we get the green machine going properly. That is why I am a little curious to hear when we will come to the negotiating table with regard to the other elements. I would also like to use this opportunity and this discussion to highlight a great many of the wise voices that have been in the debate, from people who, in recent weeks, have just been out raising the flag that we should use the opportunity to create a green-card in the economy. That's one of them. The 18 Danish NGOs who were out to say that the best chance of the climate struggle is the crisis and stimulus packages that governments throughout the world are currently introducing and implementing. They also say that, contrary to the financial crisis of 2008-2009, this time it is not just the banks that we need to use political force to save. It's the planet that's too big to fail. I think that is wise words, so I would like to ask: when will we get to work on the rest?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513145806	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513145808	I agree with that is wise words. I myself have also hosted with the International Energy Agency for a large virtual international meeting with 13, I think we managed to become environmental, climate and energy ministers from all over the world, including India, Indonesia, Canada and the largest European countries, where it was just on the agenda, and where the theme was precisely how we ensure that we do not make any of the mistakes made following the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009, where recovery packages were made and not just did not think about green considerations, but actually made a lot of investments that went in the wrong direction. So I fully share that objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513145849	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513145850	We are in the midst of a very serious corona crisis right now, and I would actually like to use this opportunity to praise the government for having acted decisively and been very effective in dealing with the corona crisis. Citizens have been looked after, and that is what we must do in the name of climate. For the corona crisis is the most acute crisis we are facing, but the climate crisis is the biggest. After all, it is almost a year since we agreed on the understanding paper on a 70-percent objective in which we had to draw up a climate action plan. When are we going to get these negotiations started?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513145929	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513145930	As the questioner knows, not only were negotiations called for, but we were in the process of holding set meetings for negotiations on a climate plan when the crisis hit us. It is clear that, of course, we in the government had to prioritize our resources and our time very focused on dealing with this crisis. We're still doing that. Having said that, we are very, very aware that the climate crisis does not disappear, and that is why we must deal with it. That is why we have also made it quite clear, both myself and the Prime Minister, that we will be negotiating a climate plan before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513150007	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513150008	I fully agree with the Minister that the climate crisis requires enormous action now. That is also why I am thinking that we should shake hands with each other not to go on summer holidays until we have actually made some green decisions. Of course, this requires a majority in the Folketing, but it is urgent to do something for the climate. We must not allow all those who use the Corona crisis as an excuse for relaxing green ambitions to be right. This is the time to act, and I hope that the Minister will agree that before the summer holidays we must:
ParlaMint-DK_20200513150041	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513150042	I very much agree with that, and I would also like to say that I am optimistic that if something good has come out of this crisis, then it is at least that we have shown that we in the Folketing can act together across parties and set aside political polemics and clashes when it really matters and take important decisions. I hope we can take that spirit into the negotiations on climate change. It is clear that the things we are going to have to negotiate here before the summer holidays, we would have liked to have spent a lot more time on. That has not been possible, and that is why we are in an extra hurry. So, with the reservation that I do not decide how other parties should behave in the negotiating room, I would certainly like to give the hand that the questioner is asking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513150125	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply and to Mrs Mai Villadsen. We move on to the next question, which is addressed to the Minister for Health and the elderly, and this has been asked by Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513150138	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513150142	Thank you very much. What is the Minister's position on the fact that there is still a lack of protective equipment in home care and care centres, and does the Minister believe that a visor is the optimal when working close to the citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513150152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513150154	We constantly have a great deal of attention to the acquisition, stock and need of protective equipment, because we should not be in a situation where employees are lacking in critical protective equipment if the health professional guidelines so require. It is the state crisis management agency that coordinates the work to ensure the necessary supply. The purchase of equipment and critical equipment for the national warehouse is based on the Capital Region of Denmark, while the municipality of Aarhus coordinates the overall inventory of needs on behalf of all municipalities. The latest reports from regions and municipalities are that they have protective equipment in stock. Stocks are growing. Of course, I expect municipalities and regions to work hard to get the protective equipment out to the staff of the individual nursing homes and home care, so that no staff are without protective equipment. In relation to the question put by the questioner about the elderly carevisors, I refer to the health authorities' assessment of what is safe in terms of health, and here the Danish Health Authority states the following: In parts of the health and elderly sector, for example. in care centres or hospital wards with implanted patients where there may be both an increased pressure of infection, increased susceptibility and great vulnerability in the groups of persons, facial visor or mask shall be worn where the performance of the task involves long or frequent close and unavoidable face-to-face contacts between staff and citizens/patients. It is a management responsibility to ensure that employees are equipped with necessary protective equipment, barriers, etc. Quote out. I'm following the guidelines of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513150341	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513150341-2	Thank you very much to the Minister. I have also heard in the last few days that the Minister has said that there were enough protective equipment, and that has meant that more staff have written to me. Many say that they are given a visor. It is personal, but they get nothing else, and it has to be spritted off every time they've been in someone's room, and it makes it foggy and it makes it hard to work with. When you have to put a person to bed or put a person in a wheelchair, it is in the way and it can go off so that there is no obstacle that the infection can get into the face of people. Then there are also those who are happy about it, I will hurry to say, because when you work with people with a dementia, they are happy to see the face and mouth etc. However, it is a concern that I raise because we also see in the note we received from the Minister how many health workers were infected, that there were very many in our home care and care centres out in the municipalities. I think there were 800-900 pieces during that period. So they are the ones who are worried, and they are the ones who write and say that they are not getting good enough tools. That is where I hope the Minister can take this up and make sure that there are uniform guidelines. Because if someone coughs and these aerosols get underneath, is that clear enough? I would like to hear the Minister's answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513150503	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513150504	After all, it is a local management decision to ensure that the appropriate protective equipment is available and what concrete protective equipment is to be used for which personnel group in which task, I am not the minister to assess. Fortunately, we have the Danish Health Service to assess and to provide guidelines for this. But it is the local employer who is responsible, and it is very, very clear in the guidelines of the Danish Health Authority.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513150540	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513150541	But I think the Minister can take responsibility, take it on his cloak. If we have someone who gets sick, they come in and strain our health care, if anyone dies, it's Corona. So, we spend several billions, hundreds of billions on business so that we do not spread the infection, and the minister then says that this is not his area. If the guidelines of the National Health Service are wrong and visors are not enough, isn't that something you should look at? That is what I am asking the Minister. I know that the Minister does not stand out with the individual municipality and say what they need. But if there are guidelines that say that a visor is enough, then perhaps it is the guidelines to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513150618	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513150618-2	You're looking at these guidelines on a regular basis; I can't deny that the Danish Health Authority considers it necessary to look at them again. So, as you know, this work is being carried out on an ongoing basis in the Danish Health Service. It is just important that I am not quoted as saying that it is not my responsibility. I'm not saying that. It is and this weekend we made contact with KL, who has written a letter to all municipalities and made it clear that we must react and that we must ensure that there are protective equipment completely out in the daily lives of front workers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513150700	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513150701	But if the guideline is that a visor is enough when it is within 1 meter of contact with a citizen and that is the cheapest, instead of a mask that may need to be changed, because it gets wet etc., and elsewhere we hear that they are also told to dry the masks, and then they need to use them again, and that it costs some more money than visors, you will look at the economic part so that you ensure that it is not about the economy, but the best for the staff who care for the citizens who need that effort?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513150728	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513150729	Yeah, I don't want it to be about economics anywhere. This is about security. That is why the Danish Parliament has adopted an act in the Finance Committee which ensures that our municipalities receive their corona-related expenditure. And protective equipment for the care of the elderly in a coronatide is exactly corona-related expenditure.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513150751	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt. We shall continue with questions to the Minister for Health and the Elderly, and this time the questioner is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, and that is Question No. 1115.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513150802	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513150807	Thank you. The question is: will the government follow the recommendation of over 300 of Europe's leading IT experts and introduce a covid-19 app that stores data decentralisedly so that citizens' rights to privacy are taken into account?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513150827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513150828	Yeah. And if I have to expand the answer a little more than just saying yes, I would say that the Danish infection tracking app must be a tool that can allow each individual citizen to be informed of the risk of infection and help reduce the spread of infection in our society. Of course, it is voluntary for the citizen to download the app, and it is an essential condition that the app can support infection detection in an efficient and secure manner and that it meets privacy requirements and privacy requirements for all of us. We in the government have published work on developing such an app, and as we are many in Denmark that have iPhone, the technology from Apple and Google is central here, and they have announced that they are working to develop a technology that can support decentralised data storage for infection detection. The government has set up an advisory board with five experts on data ethics and data security to advise on these aspects. The members are Camilla Gregersen and Christiane Vejlø from the Dataetic Council, Sune Lehmann, Professor at DTU, Mikkel Thorup, Professor at KU, and Jacob Herbst from the Cybersecurity Council. And the experts in this advisoryboard consider that decentralized data storage is an expression of best practice in relation to privacy by design, and that Apple and Google technology will be most effective in relation to infection detection. That is why we also want to incorporate the new model for decentralised data retention into the Danish virus detection app. So we have to find the right Danish way in terms of ethics, privacy, ease of use and the technological possibilities that are constantly evolving, and there are many of us with a mobile phone on us. The aim of the app is to provide the Danes who want it with a concrete tool for detection of the infection, and with the track that has been laid, the app also follows, as I said, the recommendations of the 300 international researchers to whom the questioner refers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513151025	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513151026	I think that was a very positive announcement. We in the SF have been very concerned that it should become a decentralized model. So I just want the Minister to confirm that this actually means that the government has changed its strategy in this area. For at least a number of press stories have been published about the fact that a central storage had been set up. And I would also like the Minister to confirm in the same reply that it would be technically impossible, with the new course change, to identify the behaviour of citizens with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513151105	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513151106	I mean, the purpose is not to map the behaviour of citizens. Some countries have gone with GPS, so you can map, but it has never been on the table in Denmark. It has been bluetooth and regrets all the technical English words in this Parliament Hall, but unfortunately that is what it says when it comes to mobile phones. This has been the solution that is thus locally anchored. It hasn't been possible to do it quite locally until Apple and Google came with their new API, as it's called a platform you can build something upstairs. So we got it here a short time ago, and it was only when we got it that we could go ahead with those plans.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513151145	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513151147	Well, it sounds really good that the Minister confirms that this is not there to identify the behaviour of the citizens. Perhaps the Minister could then tell us what data is intended to be collected. And can you make sure that they are not personal and that they are completely anonymous?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513151208	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513151208-2	Yes, you can. Data will not be personal and will be completely anonymous. We've invited the parties of the Danish Parliament to be involved in this work at an early stage, and so before you've finished developing this app. My dream is that we can get an app that not only the Dataetic Council and our experts recommend, but also the entire Danish Parliament can recommend, so that we can use it effectively and there can be a great deal of confidence that our privacy is secure, while it allows each of us to track down the chains of infection we may risk becoming part of.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513151245	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513151247	I don't think I quite caught what kind of data you're gonna collect here exactly. And it is certainly important to me that, if there is to be a statistical track in the app in some way, it is something voluntary and something you can choose. Then maybe the Minister can say a few words about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513151309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513151310	Yeah, I only had 30 seconds, so I couldn't tell you everything. But yes, it will be in the draft that we will send to the parties and in the presentation that we have sent to the parties. It's a hundred percent voluntary. But whatever else you might have wanted, it will not be personal; it will be only a number and only the number that is relevant. When someone gets a positive covid-19 test, the authorities will have to make sure that a message is sent to the people you've been near, but who it is and how you've met them and where, nobody knows. It is only the number and not who it is that the authorities will be able to compile statistics on and plan test capacity based on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513151354	Thank you. Yeah, 30 seconds is a very short time when you have a lot on your mind. But the question is over. Before I move on to the next question, I should like to inform you that Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt, under No. Question No 24 to the Minister for Health and the Elderly, S 1116, at the request of the author, is deleted. Then we move on to the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Health and the elderly, and that is what Mr. Nils Sjøberg. That is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène. S 1126.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513151426	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513151429	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that there are sufficiently clear guidelines as to whether the parents who are in a health-related group should send their children to school or to play agreements, and does the Minister propose how these guidelines can be clarified and made uniform throughout the country so as to avoid doubt?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513151446	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513151446-2	Thank you for the question. I fully understand that you can feel and feel insecure during this time, especially if you are at increased risk of a serious disease if you are infected with covid-19. That is why the Danish Health Authority has updated their recommendations to people at increased risk on 4 May this year. At the same time, the Danish Health Authority has specified which groups are particularly at risk of becoming seriously ill if they become infected. It appears that, and I quote from the Danish Health Service of 4 May: COVID-19 is a new but not fundamentally different infectious disease. Therefore, as a person at increased risk, normal precautions should be followed for infections as usual, possibly after advice from your doctor. This means that what you could do before the COVID-19 epidemic, e.g. go to work and take care of grandchildren, can also be done to a large extent now when following the special precautions below. If, prior to the COVID-19 epidemic, special precautions were followed by advice from your doctor, e.g. in special conditions with reduced immune response or in diseases such as cystic fibrosis, you should continue to follow your doctor' s advice. There will be few people at increased risk who, on the basis of an individual assessment by their physician, need to take more far-reaching measures. The recommendations should be regarded as principles of hygiene and behaviour on which the individual at increased risk and his/her relatives can rely when assessing their own individual situation. In relation to the next of kin, the Danish Health Authority writes, among other things, that: If you live in a household with a person who is at increased risk, you can, in principle, participate in social contexts, e.g. go to work and go to school or daycare. The Danish Health Service also recommends that you help your children to comply with the general hygiene councils so that the spread of infection is limited. So I believe that there are
ParlaMint-DK_20200513151651	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513151652	First of all, thank you to the Minister. I am well aware of the points raised by the Minister. I have spoken to several people, and when I raise the question, it is because I have been contacted by a lot of people who feel insecure about this. Because the recommendations of the Danish Health Authority also show that you live in a household, as the Minister says, with a person at increased risk, you can, according to a specific and individual assessment, go to work or to school as a starting point. After a specific and individual assessment, there may be special circumstances such as: ongoing chemotherapy, which may mean that special consideration should be given. If in doubt, contact the treating doctor. It is recommended that the management of the school in question continues to provide online education for pupils who cannot attend school. Repatriated staff can work from home. So right now, if a child is to stay home from school, an individual assessment by the head of the school is required. Similarly, a medical assessment is required in order to determine whether, as parents, you can avoid sending your children to school because you are exposed yourself. That is to say, there is this uncertainty that I understand that both parents and the individual school or institution can have. And in terms of how you look at it in the individual doctor, there may seem to be different ways in which you do it. This raises doubts among many parents around the country, because when are you exposed enough to keep your children at home? I would therefore like to ask the Minister what action the Minister will take to overcome this uncertainty. It is not there, according to the Minister, but can we do more to help?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513151834	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513151834-2	I understand that that uncertainty is there and we must also do everything we can to help. But if you go down in the guidance from the Danish Health Service, it says who is particularly at risk: severe cardiovascular disease; severe or severe lung disease; diabetes that is poorly regulated etc. But notice what it says: Diabetes that are poorly regulated; severe cardiovascular disease; severe or severe lung disease. After all, it is all something that describes something that one medically evaluates in concrete terms: what does poorly regulated mean? What does a disease that has a difficult character mean? So it's pretty much impossible to give percentages or say anything about this exact group. You have to talk to your own doctor and about this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513151926	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513151927	Of course, but the list of selected risk diseases shows that there are approx. Fifty thousand patients in Denmark with severe coll, that every year 3,500 new patients are diagnosed with lung cancer, and that between 1,500 and 2,000 patients are diagnosed with lung fibrosis, i.e. inflammation or scar tissue in the lungs, which can make breathing more difficult. In addition, the Lungeforeningen shows that there are approx. 600,000 who have some kind of lung disease. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether the Minister agrees with me that clear guidelines are also needed in this area on how to keep your child from school or institution as parents or relatives of a vulnerable person.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513152006	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513152006-2	It might be desirable and easy to say that it is there, and then I could ask the Danish Health Service to make these clear guidelines. One of the things I have discovered and also learned during this time is that there is a really great and widespread expectation that the clearer the rules and guidelines there are, the better and easier one can organize one's life. I understand that very well, because we cannot fall back to normal behavior at least not now and here so how are we supposed to behave? But we also have to respect the fact that there is the personal doctor who knows your medical history and knows how exposed you are, and so it is as it is here that the doctor you have to contact.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513152055	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513152056	Yes, thank you. As mentioned, there are 50,000 patients in Denmark with severe col, who may get into serious problems if they develop bad disease in corona infection. According to the current guidelines, they must send their children to school unless they have an appointment with the doctor, as the Minister also mentioned. And as I can almost listen to the Minister, the Minister feels comfortable with the current guidelines in the school system. Is it true that the Minister feels secure about the agreements that exist and are the best that can be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513152124	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513152125	Yes, I do. And now we've had the Danish schools open to small classes for some time, and there was plenty of discussion, too, with good reason, lots of frustration and also a lot of nervousness. And I understand the whole huge work of our practitioners, huge work from the school sector and from our parents and educators and everyone who has been involved in it. We have to say that it has been a good job and a good cooperation, and it is not only something I think when I see it; it is also something we can see in the figures in Denmark. We can look at the number of inmates, and we can see from the infection figures that they have not increased dramatically or been out of control. On the contrary, it has been wise and good and safe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513152203	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Nils Sjøberg. The next to ask questions, which are also addressed to the Minister for Health and the elderly, is Mrs Karina Adsbøl with a questioner, Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513152215	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513152218	What does the Minister think about the Statens Serum Institut as early as 28 January 2020 pointed out to the Danish Health Authority that there was evidence of mild cases and infection before onset of symptoms?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513152234	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513152236	I think that was timely and I think it was wise. As I have explained in the consultation of the Committee on Health and the Elderly yesterday and here in the Assembly hall one week ago, the Danish Health Service, in its publicly available professional guidelines of 5 February, drew attention to potential infection without symptoms. It was therefore 8 days after the Statens Serum Institut, which is responsible for the risk assessment in Denmark, informed the Danish Health Authority in an email on 28 January that there were signs of mild cases of infection before onset of symptoms. In fact, the day after the subject was discussed at a meeting with the Statens Serum Institute, it was on 4 February. The following can be seen from the public guidelines of 5 February: Person to be infected has been identified by close contact with the infected, including healthcare professionals or family members. The available reports show that a large part of the cases in China have not had known contact with sick people or markets, so the actual exposure is usually unknown. Examples of person-to-person infection have been seen before onset of symptoms, but WHO estimates that infection occurs mainly from patients with symptoms. So it is from the public report of 5 February. It also emerged from the Patient Safety standard operating procedure, SOP, of 29 January, that close contacts were extended on the basis of a precautionary principle to persons who had had contact with confirmed or suspected cases up to 48 hours before the onset of symptoms, as part of the Patient Safety Management Board as early as 29 January, the day after information about symptom-free infection. This means that the knowledge that existed has been acted upon, and that knowledge has also been publicised. As the epidemic has developed, the guidelines of the authorities and the measures we have taken have been changed and adapted, and that is why we are now a place in Denmark where we can gradually reopen society and we have the epidemic under control. I find that gratifying.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513152440	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513152441	It is difficult to find out, because they have been changed and adapted so many times, and there have been so many different reports about one and the other, whether it was 1 m or 2 m, and now it is 1 m again. Compared to what the minister says, I need to hear about something. If I have understood correctly, the Minister says that 8 days after it was found that there could also be infection without symptoms, it was published and the guidelines in the Danish Health Service changed, so it was clear that you could also be infected without symptoms. The Minister may confirm or deny this. What has been discussed back and forth, and what has also been in the media, is that we have not been sufficiently informed about the challenges that have been presented here, and the other criticism has also been made on this zigzag course, which has been in relation to various statements in the whole area. Neither in the area of health, nor in the area of the elderly, when we talk about protective equipment, nor when we talk about tests, have the reports been fully controlled and, if there have been any announcements, they have sometimes been corrected shortly after, and at the same time, there is still no control as to whether there are enough protective equipment for those working in home care. Now I can say that I myself have had a meeting with someone from KL today, and I have asked about precisely equipment, precisely because we are getting so many reports, in terms of what is under control and what is not under control. So the Minister may confirm or deny that the guidelines have been amended eight days after they became known, and if so, does the Minister think it was due care?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513152642	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513152644	Yes, I can confirm that, on 5 February, when it emerged from the guidelines of the Danish Health Service that there may be infection before onset of symptoms. So I can confirm that. Then I just want to say, in relation to this, whether there has been a word of zigzag, which is being used much by the opposition at the moment, that all the countries of Europe, all the countries of the world have adjusted their guidelines according to the knowledge that has come about the disease and about the development of the epidemic. This applies to all countries, and we in Denmark will also do so in the future. It is not an expression of zigzag, it is an expression of handling it on the basis of the knowledge that comes in. And when we get new knowledge again, we will once again adjust our guidelines, because that is the only sensible thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513152731	Then it's the questioner's turn. I must point out that there are a great many questions for the Minister for Health and the elderly, and in any case we will probably not all be able to do so within the hour, but I would urge you to keep to the speaking time at least. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513152744	Thank you. So the minister became aware of it, at the same time as the Statens Serum Institut became aware of it, in other words that you could infect without symptoms. And what exactly was the Minister doing when he got to know it, at the same time, as I understand it, that the State Serum Institute assessed it here? Can the Minister elaborate on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513152810	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513152811	So on 29 January, my agency for patient safety, which is responsible for the detection of infection, did so on the day after the Serum Institute became aware of it, by the way, because it was news that was in all the Danish media, I think; all the Danish newspapers also brought it to the effect that they expanded their tracing work, so that even if you had been with people, two days before those people had symptoms, because you could see that there was a risk that you could be infected before you had symptoms. So the rulers have acted on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513152847	Thank you. And then it's the co-questioner, sir. Peter Skaarup. There's one minute left for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513152853	Thank you very much. I think everyone in Danish society is interested in us fighting the corona as best we can, and wish that we had done the best we could from the beginning. When we take a little interest in this matter and have tried to ask a little about it, it is to be sure that we also learn from the mistakes that have also been made in a case like this. And I think it is a good thing that the Minister himself will be aware of this at the end of January. However, what we would like to see is to ensure that the guidelines that this expresses are quickly changed at the extremes of the elderly. And there is, after all, a date called 21 April, which is long after this information came out and when those around in our health sector are being made aware very late that now things are in a different way than usual.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513153001	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513153002	I fully agree with what is being described here, and also agree with that, I do not know whether we are entirely in agreement, but we certainly agree that we are a good place now in Denmark, where the epidemic is under control and we can start to open up society even more and where we have not been hit as hard as other countries. We've had a very, very mild excess mortality. There are countries around us, also close to us, which have had a severe excess mortality. The epicenter was in southern Europe, and now it's in Eastern Europe. But we have not had anything similar to the problems in Denmark. But we're still gone hard hit... the Danish community is hard hit. That is why there has to be a learning, which is why it is important to me that everything becomes transparent and that the learning to be done should be picked up not only so that we can be better at dealing with the next few weeks and months and perhaps, unfortunately, even longer when we have corona, but also because it is not the last health crisis that hits us. So there's plenty of things to learn from, and this is one of them. And the main questioner also mentioned a number of other things about the teachings of it, so a much higher degree of learning from the very beginning.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513153117	Thank you. Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513153118	I'd just like to ask the Minister for Health one thing here. We are aware of the fact that the corona can infect without being visible at the end of January, but it is not until 21 April that the guidelines that are in the nursing homes and health care systems are being changed. Now it may be that there is something from the press and that the Minister is saying different things and things here, but it has to be said that what has been one of the major problems is, of course, that things are being changed far too late in the health system outside the extremes of the elderly. Does the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513153155	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513153156	No, I think that is too early to conclude, and I also think that it is important to have the specific timetable. From 2 March, the Danish Health Authority announced that it was required that all employees in the health and elderly sector who have direct contact with citizens should stay at home for 2 weeks if they come home from some of the specific risk areas that were found to exist in Europe, including: in northern Italy. That is to say, because you knew that there could be infection, even if you didn't have the symptoms... what these people could have had... you had to stay at home and not be at work. So it has been dealt with, and action has been taken, even earlier than has been said here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513153239	Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl on the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513153243	Well, I'd really like to follow up on that. Because when the Minister says that it took eight days before the Health Authority's guidelines were amended on 5 February, there was no follow-up at the same time to equipment and increased tests, compared to when we talk about health professionals and we are talking about the situation in nursing homes, as my colleague also mentioned. Well, considering you knew that the infection could be there, even if you don't have symptoms, it wasn't followed up. It may well be that the guidelines were changed, but there was no follow-up to increased tests and did not provide protective equipment for those who worked out there, including in the nursing home sector in nursing homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513153323	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513153324	No, and I do not think that can be concluded at this stage had been the right thing to do. To say that we back on 28 January, 1 month before the first was tested positive in Denmark, 1 month before that I do not think that is something that can be concluded, and I have certainly not heard experts say that this is the clear conclusion. I think you should be careful to conclude that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513153401	Thank you. That was the last answer to that question, so thank you to Mrs Adsbøl. We shall also continue with questions to the Minister for Health and the Elderly, this time asked by Mrs Sophie Løhde and with Mr Løhde. Martin Geertsen as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513153414	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513153417	Thank you. Will the Minister explain why the Minister has muzzled the Statens Serum Institute and instructed that the Serum Institute should not provide figures on how many are tested daily in the Test Centre Denmark's tents?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513153429	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513153430	Yeah, I'd like to explain that. I haven't muzzled anyone. I don't know the background to the article I've seen it and therefore I reacted the same day I read it and made sure that the figures were posted to the public. I must also be honest to say that I was very surprised to see that article. I don't even see what the motive would be. We are one of the countries in the world that carries out sovereignly most tests per capita. This morning at 2:00 a.m. 8:00 we had carried out more than 400,000 tests of Danes. I think this is worthwhile; we can be proud of the work that has been done by our staff. At a more general level, the government has presented the basis for the political decisions taken in relation to corona. The reports produced by the Statens Serum Institut expert group are available on the Statens Serum Institut website. Most recently, the source codes for the models used by the expert group were also presented. The daily monitoring of the epidemic by the Statens Serum Institute is constantly being expanded and made more detailed as monitoring builds up and adapts to the phase we are in. And hard work is being done to develop and publish the reports that are relevant for everyone to keep up with the epidemic. I think we have come a long way in a short time. I think it is important also to remember that six months ago, no one had expected us to be in an epidemic at this point in time. For many of the areas, new thinking is needed, and that is what has been done by our authorities. My approach is that there must be openness both about the mistakes we are all making and there will be mistakes, but of course also about these things, and therefore they were put out openly when I had read the article that puzzled me deeply. Because no one has been muzzled, as the article says.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513153629	Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513153630	Thank you for a long answer, which unfortunately was not so much about what I asked you about, because if the Minister says that he reacted immediately, it is strange that the reaction was not that the Minister did of course ensure that all the staff in the department and in all the departments which belong to the minister's area of responsibility were made aware of the fact that there are of course no members of staff who are muzzled and therefore of course able to express their views. Because there is clearly a completely different view of it in the system, and this is unfortunately not the only example. But there is one person who, among other things. has spoken to Jyllands-Posten, who does not want his name out on the grounds that the Ministry of Health has asked the CDC not to comment on the matter. How will the Minister explain this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513153716	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513153717	For good reasons, I can't know how that conversation has been conducted. That is not what is considered to be a whistleblower, because there is no information in the quote that is being read here. I have no idea who it is you've reached. I have no knowledge that there should be errors in Jyllands-Posten's article, so I assume that the conversation has taken place. However, I have indicated to the governing body that there has been no muzzle and that, of course, it is not sustainable for employees to express it regardless of who it is, because that is not true.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513153755	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513153757	However, there is clearly an employee on the board in question who is of the opinion, and this is probably a problem with the Minister's department and agencies, which may not only include the Statens Serum Institut. In other words, it may also be necessary for the Minister of Health to ensure that there is no muzzle anywhere and that, of course, everyone can speak out. But now it is well known that the government has far from lived up to all its many promises of testing to the Danes. That is what the critical article is about. So how far are we from the Minister's goal of the 20,000 daily tests? Or, to put it more bluntly, perhaps that is why the muzzle has been muzzled.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513153839	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513153840	It doesn't help to repeat the claim here. There's no muzzle. I have not muzzled, and there is no shadow of documentation or anything else for it. Because I have not muzzled any employees on the contrary, I have responded when I read the article. I note that there is a conversation between a journalist and an employee I do not know on a board where that word has been said. Unfortunately, this is wrong, and I reacted promptly the same day I read the article by adding the figures. That's proof of it. Why should there have been muzzles? Why would you hold back those numbers? There's no reason for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513153919	Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513153924	Thank you. But apparently, Minister, there has to be someone at the Statens Serum Institute who is walking around with the idea that they have been muzzled. The Minister says that he has immediately distanced himself from it. What exactly has the Minister done in relation to his own department in order to avoid this type of case another time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513153942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513153944	As I told someone else, two things. Firstly, on the day I read the article, I made sure that the figures requested by the journalist were presented. And they are now laid out, for there is no reason to hide them. So the numbers you asked for have been put forward. Secondly, it has been pointed out to the relevant board that it is obviously not sustainable that there are employees who say something that is not true to journalists, that is, something that is not factually correct. And that's not factually correct. I mean, I focus primarily on dealing with the epidemic, but I have to be honest and say that it is a little frustrating to see such an article, because it has nothing on it. We have not, on the contrary, put forward the figures.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513154046	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513154048	It is commendable enough for the Minister to say to a board or to the Serum Institute that we should not muzzle, but it seems as if it is a muzzle which, if I may say so, was issued in the department, that is, in the ministry. And all due respect for what the Minister has done, which, as it were, extends outside the Minister's own department, but what has the Minister done to track down who might be the source of a muzzle issued to the Serum Institute?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513154117	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513154119	Well, it's clear that I've asked in the department. I have said that I have not muzzled anyone, and have asked: has anyone? I've been told there isn't. Then we asked at the CDC, and they couldn't immediately answer who had been interviewing that reporter. In addition, it is a matter of staffing which, of course, I do not wish to interfere in in this way, and which the Folketing should not do either. I just want to say in general terms that you cannot have opened very many newspapers or seen very much television if you think that our Danish experts from various agencies have not been available to the press in this time. Because they have been so much available, which I think is good, and I encourage that they are available.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513154205	Then it is Mrs Sophie Løhde for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513154210	Thank you. So, the muzzle comes from the Ministry of Health... it appears in black and white from this article... for which the minister is responsible. So if the Minister wishes to deny today that the muzzle is coming from the Minister, will the Minister then also inform us that it is the conclusion of what the Minister says that the person who spoke anonymously to Jyllands-Posten, probably for fear of reprisals, is not telling the truth? Or how is this to be the case when, in the Minister's view, there is no muzzle anywhere? Because both can't be true at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513154246	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513154250	As I said from the outset, there has not been any muzzling in the Chamber today, and I have repeated it every time I have had the opportunity to do so. I didn't, we didn't. And the best proof is that the same day the article came, I made sure that the figures requested by the journalist were published openly. In addition, all the experts from our agencies attend both our press meetings and other meetings and last night I saw on the TV newspaper another director on a board there. So they have been available to such an extent, and they will continue to be, as well as all our numbers, all the requested figures, are available. That is why it is a misunderstanding, a misconception which has nothing on it. And the numbers are on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513154334	Thank you, Minister. The question is over. We move on to the next question, which is Question No. S 1139, where Mr. Martin Geertsen is a questioner and Mrs Sophie Løhde is an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513154348	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513154351	Thank you. The question is: will the Minister state his position on establishing clear criteria and conditions for reintroducing the Danes' patients' rights, which were suspended as a result of the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513154400	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513154401	Yeah, I'd like that. On the basis of an overall assessment of their capacity, the regions have been given the opportunity to ignore deadlines in particular: the rules on the right of investigation and treatment. It is in order to free up sufficient capacity to treat patients with covid-19. And the government has expressed a clear desire to reinstate both the right of investigation and the right of treatment as early as practically possible. The time will depend on the development of the epidemic and therefore also on how the health care burden will be in the future. It will also depend on the extent of the development of the waiting-time hump created by the epidemic, so that is why we cannot give a specific moment today when the right of investigation and treatment will be reinstated. The first important step in the process of reintroducing the right of investigation and treatment is to increase health care activity, and we agreed on this on 13 April, the Danish Government, Danish Regions, KL and PLO and this is based on the Danish Health Authority's technical plan for the transformation of the health care system from 14 April. The government is in dialogue with the regions about increased activity and humpback settlement, and this week we have agreed with Danske Regions that private capacity is used for humpback settlement corresponding to the level before covid-19. This should help to ensure that more patients can be rescued and treated in the near future. The dialogue with the regions also includes the considerations which the questioner refers to in the question, namely how we can work towards the restoration of the right of investigation and treatment, for example. by establishing measuring points, criteria or the like. And it is part of the work that takes place these weeks with Danske Regionser.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513154543	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513154544	In other words, the Minister keeps referring to the fact that we have had the discussion before and thank you for the reply, moreover, about the date. And that's not what we're looking for. What we are a little insecure about in the Left is, of course, to leave what to say, the explanations and treatment guarantees such as this to a Socialist minister. We have really, really bad experiences with that. The last time that happened, the treatment warranty was diluted. So what we are really after, Minister, is what I have said before, both in open and more closed forums: could we not have a common understanding of what these are criteria that, if I may say so, will have to do before we can reinstate the investigation and treatment guarantees? For right now we have seen the feet firmly planted in thin air, and it is kind of up to the Minister to drive out there, to some extent, and then, when the Minister thinks it is timely, he withdraws the announcement which in general controls it here. In other words, it does not make me particularly safe, so the Minister could not give any offers, beyond that with the date: what are the criteria that the Minister himself sees need to be in order to be able to reinstate the investigation and treatment guarantee?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513154701	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513154702	Yes, in the work with Danske Regioner, who is doing this job well and well, I think, and who is also interested in reintroducing our patients' rights, it is precisely the work of inspecting, concrete measuring points, concrete criteria, concrete point marks that can be steered by and then crossed off, when you then move forward in relation to waiting times, and in relation to other relevant point marks you will be able to say that at that rate you will be able to reinstate either all patient rights under one or perhaps first one, and then a little later, if that makes sense. The faster, the better. That is our political objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513154751	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513154751-2	I have very, very difficult to imagine because we have among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. Well, what could it be for anyone? If we have considered what are the measuring points, according to the Minister himself, as one might imagine was fulfilled?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513154818	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513154819	We have done a lot of thinking about this, and it is in cooperation with Danske Regions, where we are discussing this. We are currently meeting every Monday, in fact, where this is a fixed item on the agenda, and the covid-19 situation is different. But there are a number of things, and some of them require you to have a more deep technical knowledge of what kind of diseases we have within the hump. But it is precisely this: how much is the waiting time for a number of diseases? How many references are made by general practitioners to the various cancer packages and others? These could be some of the elements you could use. But we are not where we have a final agreement, and that is why it is a question of how the preliminary process is going.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513154910	Thank you. Then it's the co-questioner, Mrs. Sophie Løhde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513154912	I just want to ask you about what is quite a lot of rubber band in meter size right now, namely some loose thoughts about some specific targets. When can patients expect to see the Minister's specific measuring points for when patient rights, the right of investigation and the guarantee of treatment can come into effect again?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513154935	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513154936	As the parties were informed when we negotiated the reopening of large parts of the health service, in May we will have a greater knowledge of the hump and general health care activity. And it is clear that this knowledge must be used when setting such criteria. And that means that I need that knowledge, and the Ministry needs it, and of course we will share it with the Danish Parliament as it arrives, as well as I will involve the Danish Parliament's covid-19 follow-up group in working with Danske Regionser.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513155012	Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513155013	It didn't exactly become more concrete. And in relation to the debate on the reopening of health care, I would like to say that the plan to which the Minister refers is strongly criticised by patients' organisations, employees and also various politicians, because it is too unconcernable. It is unclear when patients can expect to be operated, there are no agreements with doctors and nurses on how this should be done, and no money has been set aside to deal with waiting lists that have arisen during the corona crisis, and then there is widespread criticism of it. When can patients expect a clear message from the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513155049	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513155050	But then again the question of when, and the question of when we are in a situation where we can say that our patients' rights will come into force again, I cannot answer. Because it takes me to predict the future and predict how the epidemic develops. I can't. Nobody can do that. But what we are working on now is to put on top of the agreement that we announced yesterday or the day before; precisely that we agreed with our regions that we should make use of private capacity so that all capacity is fully used to get health care going and to plan off waiting lists.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513155129	Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513155133	But listen, Minister: Well, we agree that it was the government that shut down this country, including the Danish health care system, so that it used its capacity to a large extent on covid-19. Now the Minister is saying: we cannot say when patients' rights will be reinstated. Now, but what I understand from the Minister is that the government cannot or will not say anything about when you then have some measuring points which indicate when you can reinstate patients' rights. Well, it's double I don't know anything what the minister is saying here, right?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513155207	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513155208	No, it is not, although it is refined enough by the questioner. I fully acknowledge that the development of the epidemic will not be predicted, and we agree on that, I think. There won't be any good for us to predict in a few months' time in the future here. In concrete terms, however, I have answered the questioner that there is currently work being done, which is also described in the negotiations, on the start-up of large parts of the health service. It is a work which is based on the figures we get in the month of May, on how big the hump is and how it is distributed in which areas of disease and what specialities it is. And then you can make these specific measuring points.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513155249	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Martin Geertsen and Mrs Sophie Løhde. We move on to the next question to the Minister for Health and the elderly, and this has been asked by Mrs Ulla Tørnæs with her co-questioner, Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513155301	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513155303	Will the Minister state what medical calculations are used to maintain the closed Danish borders with Germany and Norway?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513155315	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513155316	I would like to stress that I understand very well that border controls and restrictions on entry are of great importance both to business and to private individuals. After all, one week ago we had the same questioner and co-questioner. The case has nuances. According to the State Serum Institute, an actual qualitative country-specific assessment of infection pressures is difficult due to uneven data bases and different and therefore not directly comparable inventory methods in each country. However, this does not change the fact that in Denmark as well as in the EU, there is being looked at how to use the data now available. Let me just repeat that the questioner does not make me speculate about changes in the pressure of infection by allowing German tourists to take a holiday in Denmark. The same applies to Norwegian tourists. Last week, the questioner attached great importance to Germany's low pressure of infection. That's right, too. But if you follow developments in Germany, you can see that the pressure of infection has since increased, so the R-number here on Sunday is over 1. I have no doubt that the epidemic in Germany is under control. I think there is. But it shows how quickly things can change, including in our neighbouring countries. That is why we need to maintain that there is a risk of opening the borders too soon. This applies to the borders with Germany and Norway in the same way as to other measures that open up society. We run the risk of jeopardising good development, so that parts of the reopening must be rolled back if we open society too much. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary that the reopening of Denmark takes place gradually and controlled. As you know, this work is in full swing. In conclusion, I would also like to emphasise that the government is currently in dialogue with neighbouring countries and will report on the temporary border control with entry bans by 1 June 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513155513	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513155514	Thank you for your answer. I should just like to point out, for the sake of order, that if you look at the very latest information from Germany, the pressure of infection in Germany has actually fallen. But that is not so much what I want to ask. When we last stood here, the Minister stressed that when the border was closed, it was a clear political decision. We also heard from the media that it must of course also be a political decision when the border is to be opened again. That is precisely why we are asking what the health reasons are for maintaining the closure of the border in the current situation. That is why I would like to ask: what is the medical evidence the Minister has in order to maintain the closure of the border?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513155617	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513155618	Actual qualitative country-specific assessments are difficult, according to the State Serum Institute. I mentioned earlier that it was because of an uneven data base and different and therefore not directly comparable compilation methods in each country. But that does not change the fact that we in Denmark as well as in the EU are looking at how the data available can be used. I think that the questioner's initial comment on the pressure of infection in Germany, which now seems to have fallen a little again, shows very well that, unfortunately, developments are going up quickly, but fortunately also down again. Therefore, it may be difficult to make actual country-specific assessments by the Statens Serum Institut.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513155705	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513155706	May I ask the Minister what impression it has on the Minister that the German Minister for the Interior, in an interview today, emphasizes that the German side is ready to open the Danish-German border. I do not know how the Minister feels about it, but I do feel that I actually consider Germany to be a very well-functioning country, which is neither cloned nor anything else, and when you come to the conclusion in Germany that you think you can open up to Denmark because there is roughly the same pressure of infection with certain small fluctuations, what impression does that make on the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513155749	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513155750	I am very impressed by this and it is a positive impression that it has on me. I did not think it was a good thing that Europe had to shut down its borders, but unfortunately we had to, and I thought it was a wise and proper decision. But that is a good thing, the more we get society back on track, even when we can start opening borders again. We are working with the help of the European Union and the ECDC, which is the EU agency in this area, to find concrete, comparable data bases in order to assess the pressure of infection in the various countries, just as the European Commission actually recommends in their latest reports.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513155823	Thank you. Then it's the co-questioner, Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513155828	Thank you. I understand from the Minister that it may be difficult to compare the data available. But I am also more interested in what the Minister's demands for, for example, are. Germany is. In other words, does the pressure of infection have to be lower in Germany for the Minister to think it is appropriate to open the border, or can the Minister live with the fact that it is higher? So, what is it that the minister wants to use that comparable data material for?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513155856	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513155857	The question here is, of course, about the medical assessments, and here I explained that it is extremely difficult for the Statens Serum Institute to provide such a health professional data base. After all, we have had the 19 experts to provide scenarios for social activity in Denmark, which in itself has been a forceful effort, where all the pieces know that they have been sitting at the table, and all the parties have done so and have an effect on each other. This means that the assessment by the Statens Serum Institute at this stage is that it is difficult to make such an assessment, in which case traffic across borders is also included in such an assessment. That is the answer I have to give to the Folketing: when our experts say that it is difficult to deliver such a job, that is what we have to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513155954	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513155955	But I am simply not getting any cleverer, because there is no head or tail in what the Minister says. We ask specifically about the medical calculations, and the Minister talks about the difficulty of comparing the figures. But the Minister must also be able to say something about how the Minister will then use the medical calculations. What is the condition for the Minister to be in favour of opening the border with Germany? Is it that the pressure of infection has to be lower on the other side of the border?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513160025	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513160026	No, I think the question may be more complicated than that. For the pressure of infection if it is the "R" number that is spoken of here is an expression of how an epidemic develops, but not how many people have been infected. So you can theoretically imagine that there is an R-number that is below 1, i.e. that there is a declining trend, but that there is a high, high level of infection. And on the other hand, you can have an R-number over 1, but a very, very low pressure of infection in a society. So there is therefore a very, very high degree of complexity in this, and therefore it makes no sense to make one. It must be an overall assessment, which is then a political responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513160111	Thank you, Minister. Then it is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs with the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513160115	Unfortunately, I feel just like my colleague. I find it difficult to find a head and a tail in what the Minister is replying to here, because the Minister says that data cannot be used for anything, and at the same time the Minister is laying data on the grounds that the Danish-German border cannot be opened. That is why I just have to repeat my question in the hope of getting a slightly more understandable answer: what is the health support that the Minister has for maintaining the closure of the Danish-German border?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513160150	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513160151	But then you have to ask a different question, because the question is whether the Minister will tell us what medical calculations and then the discussion is, of course, whether it is possible to provide health-care calculations and there has been my answer that there are difficulties in providing health-care calculations on this. If you want another discussion, you have to ask another question. But that is the question that has been asked, and that is what I have then provided answers to in respect of the experts of the Statens Serum Institute, who, of course, deliver everything they can. But we cannot force them to deliver something that they do not believe is possible at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513160232	Thank you for the answer to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 23, and this is for the Minister of Health by Mrs Liselott Blixt. The President has the floor and concludes Question Time, and this will be done in the way that the Minister has been there for exactly one hour now, and there are three questions left so that the questions to the Minister for Health and the elderly cannot be reached in one hour. Now Mrs Liselott Blixt's question will be answered, and then I have asked Mrs Sophie Løhde to withdraw her question, so that we also get to Question No. 26 by Mr. Martin Geertsen. Then it is likely to last a total of 1 hour and 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513160311	Here you go, Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513160315	Thank you very much. What initiatives will the Minister take to ensure that all patients who are now on a waiting list for treatment receive the treatment they need?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513160324	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513160326	I am sorry, but it is only because it is stated in the Rules that it is only one hour. So I'm sorry about this intermezzo. The health service has been through a large and necessary transition to free up the capacity for treating patients with covid-19. This has meant that some patients have experienced a delay in their treatment. The government is fully aware that it can have a major impact on the everyday and quality of life of the individual patient when, for example, An operation is postponed. That is why the government also wants to dismantle waiting lists as quickly as possible. Work is under way. The first important step is to increase health care activity. The Government, the Danish Regions, the KL and the PLO have just agreed in a joint statement on 13 April to gradually increase health care activity. The increased activity takes place on the basis of the Danish Health Authority's academic plan from 14 April. Among other things, the plan states that health care must give priority to those patients who are deemed to have the greatest need for health care. The government is in dialogue with the regions about increased activity and hunching. This week, the government has agreed with Danske Regions that the regions use private capacity for humpback settlement corresponding to the level before the covid-19. This should help to ensure that more patients can be rescued and treated. Work has also been started to get an overview of the delayed activity. The first figures include: waiting time is expected to be published by the end of May. However, we must also be completely honest and say that we are in an extraordinary situation. The settlement of waiting lists depends, inter alia, on: of how the epidemic will develop in the future. Fortunately, we are currently seeing positive developments. We have control of the epidemic, and that is why we also have the opportunity to increase health care activity so that more patients can receive treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513160515	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513160516	Thank you very much. I mean, I don't know if I'm naive, but I thought and thought that when all parties were involved in shutting down the investigation and treatment guarantee, all parties would also be consulted on how we opened up again to all those on the waiting list and how we reached the treatment guarantee that we have all helped to shut down. When the Minister went out and had made an agreement with the regions, I wonder why we are told this after this has happened. But I also understand that this is not an increase in activity in relation to the agreement that has been made. It sounds great to put in extra economy, but the agreement you have made and where you involve the private is only an activity corresponding to the level before the covid-19. I think that a great many journalists had gotten a little wrong when they said this morning that we really need to involve the private sector in getting the hump-off started. That's not gonna happen. It's the usual activity that's been before the covid-19. So the question is: how do we ensure the hump settlement, in relation to the fact that we are actually still going to treat our covid-19 patients as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513160633	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513160634	To the first part of the question, as the questioner knows, we used our whole Easter to negotiate this. The parties ended up not wanting to make an agreement, and therefore the government had to make that agreement with Danske Regions. That's the reality. And we had to do that, because the situation had to be dealt with, and that is what has happened, so that we have now made that agreement with our regions to use private capacity. All capacity must be used in all capacity. And that's what's in the deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513160712	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513160713	It is not in the agreement that you use all that capacity. The private can take much more if that is what they were going to do and can take some of that hump, and now I am actually going to say that the Minister speaks untruely. The Minister actually promised me at the meeting where he was so angry that he left the meeting before all of us, that we would have an agreement here in May when the figures came on the table so that we could make an agreement on how we hunched. It is perhaps a pity that we do not record these meetings on record, because then I could play it for the Minister. Because this was one of the things we agreed we should have done together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513160745	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513160746	I'm afraid I don't recognize that presentation. But I guess we can't get any closer here. The fact is that the agreement concluded with Danske Regions is that all capacity must be available, both private and public. Then it is added: to the extent that the private cannibalises in the public sector, in other words that there are employees in the public sector who take leave from the public sector to go to the private sector. It's not a new capacity. Then it is simply moving capacity, and that does not mean that waiting lists are being held, and I think it is a healthy pillar on which this agreement is based. But all capacity needs to be used.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513160837	Mrs. Liselott Blixt for a final round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513160839	So if the private can take more than the activity that was before the level of covid-19, should the regions make use of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513160846	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513160847	Yes, unless it cannibalizes the regional employees, and that is what is actually the assessment, and that is different from region to region. In some places there are plenty of private hospitals, and others there aren't many, so there's a big difference here. I think it makes sense, and it is common sense that we should not end up in situations that we have unfortunately been in before in this country, where some are paid for, so that they take early leave from the public hospital to go to the private hospital and get more shifts. Then we will have no more health care activity. All capacity must be used and used maximum.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513160925	I would like to thank the Minister for the answer to Question No 1, which I have just given. 1101. I would just like to say, for the sake of good order and also for the record, that Question No. 1137 by Mrs Sophie Løhde has been withdrawn. The last question allows the President to maintain and will also just, for the sake of good order, refer to the Rules of Procedure and say that it is considered that each minister is normally there for up to one hour, unless, in exceptional cases, the President decides that it can be withdrawn. I regard Covid-19 as a special case, and that is why I am giving the opportunity just to have the last question answered, precisely because one of the questions has now been drawn. So now it is the last question with the co-questioner, and that is Question No. 1140 to the Minister for Health and the Elderly, and that is by Mr. Martin Geertsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513161016	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513161017	Thank you. Will the Minister explain his position as to whether a specific plan should be drawn up to resolve the waiting lists in the Danish health care system that have arisen as a result of the corona crisis and whether the government is prepared to provide the necessary financial resources for the settlement of waiting lists?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513161033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513161034	As I have already explained in my answer to question S 1101, the government wants to dismantle waiting lists as quickly as possible. Work is under way. The first important step is to increase health care activity. In a joint statement dated 13 April, the Danish Government, Danish Regions and KL and PLO have just agreed to gradually increase health care activity, and this increased activity takes place on the basis of the Danish Health Authority's academic plan. The plan states, among other things, that health care must give priority to those patients who are considered to have the greatest need for health care assistance. We are in the government in dialogue with the regions about increased activity and hunching. This week we have agreed with Danske Regions that the regions use private capacity for humpback settlement corresponding to the level before the covid-19. This should help to ensure that more patients can be rescued and treated in the near future. Work has also been started to get an overview of the delayed activity. The first figures include: waiting time is expected to be published by the end of May. They will, of course, be shared with the Folketing. When it comes to the issue of financial resources for health care, there can be no doubt that health is core welfare and therefore an important priority for the government. Health has been given a significant and much-needed boost with the latest financial agreement and with the latest economic agreements between regions and municipalities, and we will also give priority to health in the future. This is also true in this exceptional situation of health care. The government will provide funding for the extraordinary efforts for actions related to the covid-19, so that other expenses are not crowded out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513161215	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513161217	I am also going to try, in respect of the Minister's time, to limit my speech here to far less than two minutes and ask the Minister: does the Minister believe that there is a need for a national action plan, which is after all wanted by more people? So that is my one question. Then there's my second question. In our debate here a little earlier this afternoon, Minister, the minister made a lot of sense of measuring points. Would the Minister consider that it might be appropriate to set out some measuring points for the settlement of humps? So paragraph 1: Is there a need for a national action plan? And paragraph 2: Could the Minister imagine that such a national action plan contained some measuring points for the dismantling of bumps in the Danish health service?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513161300	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513161302	When I went into measuring points in the previous answer, it was because it was part of the question. So I hope it's okay that I did it. I think it would be absolutely crucial to set up some measuring points, and I am not quite sure that it should be national. Because I can predict that there will be a regional difference between the extent to which the measuring points will be met and the time when the epidemic has affected the parts of the country differently. Some regions have to devote a lot of resources and beds to covid-19 patients and others less many.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513161339	Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513161341	However, we still agree, according to our debate here earlier this afternoon, that it is at the Minister's request that the Danish health service is shut down because of the threat of covid, which then did not fortunately for it turned out to be as serious as we feared. So, in view of the fact that it is so reasonable to put the regions in the position that the Minister will not be at all involved in discussing, together with the parties of the Folketing, a definite national action plan? Or rather, why will the Minister not be involved in drawing up such a national plan of action for the dismantling of humps?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513161414	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513161415	Well, it is part of the emergency law adopted by the whole parliament, where there was broad support that it would be necessary to adjust health care and not completely shut it down, but that it would still be in full operation with regard to acute functions and cancer packages with more that are important to carry. But it is true that this is a huge transformation which we are now converting back again and where we have a hump on the way, which we are going to have squandered. There is a very, very thorough dialogue and a collaboration with Danske Regioner to get things done. measuring points and other things for how we can handle it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513161452	Then it is the co-questioner Mrs Sophie Løhde for 1 minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513161457	I would like to ask about Dorthe Christensen from Sindal in North Jutland, who, like thousands of other Danes, has had his operation cancelled, and afterward Dorthe has also lost his job. She has severe pain and osteoarthritis in her shoulders and knees, and she therefore waits like thousands of other patients, and she finds that she cannot even get a date for when it will be her turn. Why is it that the Minister does not believe that patients like Dorthe deserve to have a national action plan for settling the waiting lists and the hump in the Danish health care system?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513161540	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513161541	Patients like Dorthe and everyone else deserve treatment. After all, they deserve to be diagnosed and treated, and that is what the work is about on the basis of the health-care criteria laid down by the Danish Health Service. After all, all parties in the Folketing agree on a plan for the reopening of Denmark, and it says, and I quote from the reopening: The parties note that the reopening can be expected to lead to an increase in infected and admissions both in phase 2 and future phases. That is what we are operating for in the health service, that is, that all parties in the Danish Parliament have thought, and I think that is wise, that we should reopen, and I can hear that there are many parties that will open much more now and here. But even with what has been decided, it has been noted that it can mean an increase in the number of infected persons and an increase in the number of admissions, and the more inlaid with covid-19, the more difficult it will be to get the health service in full capacity. That's logic.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513161641	The co-author Mrs Sophie Løhde for a final round of 1⁄2 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513161646	I don't think there's anything Dorthe wants more than getting his treatment. It's the one she's been canceled. Why, then, is it that the country's Minister for Health, the Social Democratic Government, will not make a national action plan for the dismantling of waiting lists and humps, which is also in demand by Danske Patients and others who support that demand? The minister won't give her that. Will the Minister give a promise to Dorte when she can get something as humble as just a date for when she can expect to be treated again?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513161720	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513161722	Now the Left is again asking for a date, and I have to quote the Left's own rapporteur, namely that the Left does not ask for a date. Because that is what I understand the Left's health rapporteur is always repeating, that is that it is not a date that the Left wants. But when I have a debate with everyone else from the Left, it will be a short time and then it will be a date again. I am not going to stand here and give dates when you can have the individual treatment. It's quite impossible in this situation, as long as we're in the middle of an epidemic and the reopening even means, as the parties themselves have written in the agreement, that there can be more patients. So that's not possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513161805	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen to a final round of 1⁄2 minute duration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513161810	Listen, there are plans being made for everything else in this time, and then I hear the Minister for Health say that he will not make a plan for humpback settlement in the Danish health care system. We agree that it is the government that governs, and it is the government that has shut down the Danish healthcare system. And now the government will not take responsibility for drawing up a national plan of action for the dismantling of waiting lists in the Danish health care system, which it has thus shut down itself. That is simply not fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513161840	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513161842	It was the author's party that left the negotiations precisely to take responsibility for the reopening of our health services, and one has to stand by oneself for why it was not considered relevant. Afterwards, I had to take responsibility for making an agreement with KL, with the general practitioners and with Danske Regioner about this opening, which we are now in the process of doing, as well as I am responsible for an agreement we made with Danske Regioner this week to make use of private capacity, as well as I am responsible for working towards measuring points, also regionally based measuring points, so that we manage to restore our patients' rights as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513161920	Thank you to the Minister for answering a series of questions. The next item is a question to the Minister for Children and Education, and that has been put to him. Jacob Mark of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513161933	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513161934	Thank you. Why will the Minister not follow the proposal of the KL, the School Leader Association and the Children's and Culture Managers Association to postpone the national tests until September, when it is their assessment that the resources in schools are best spent on ensuring a good and sound reopening?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513161954	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513162029	Well, well, I agree that the schools should use their powers sensibly... it almost gives itself. And I would say that with all the mistakes and shortcomings of the national tests that we have been over the past many months, and where there is still some work to be done to change the forms of evaluation in the primary school, it is in front of us and should preferably be concluded on this side of Christmas, I would say that I simply cannot come at a time when they have really been needed more than now. I wish they were better, because then we would have gotten even more out of them, but we just never tried corona before. That is to say, right now I actually see it even with all the shortcomings they have been given as a gift, that we can compare with what has been going on in previous years. This means that we may be able to get an overview of who has gone well for whom it has gone badly in relation to distance learning to a slightly greater extent than otherwise. Where are we gonna start with some extra help? Therefore, one can say that one can only regret that there are, after all, the challenges of the national tests that are because the measuring tool is as such. But they can be used for something, and it's better than nothing. And that is why I really want to insist even more this year than I would in normal circumstances that we simply need the national tests to be carried out so that we can see more where the gaps are than we can otherwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513162149	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513162151	It can be said that the school disagrees with the minister, and with the school I believe that the school leaders believe that they should be postponed; the teachers believe that they should be postponed; the Children's and Culture Managers' Association believes that they should be postponed; the teachers think that they should be postponed; the parents think that they should be postponed. This means that everyone working in and with the Danish primary school thinks that the national tests should be postponed because the resources are better spent on something else. Right now, you are struggling, and I know that the Minister knows that by getting the primary school back up and running again, with distracted education, half and full days, and then a majority comes along and says that they also have to carry out the national tests instead of just waiting a little longer after the summer break. The Olympic Games have been postponed, the European Football Championship has been postponed, festivals postponed, but national tests cannot be postponed. Why does the Minister disagree with those who work in primary school?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513162246	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513162247	In fact, I think that is something we should be careful about, because we can say that I have actually postponed them. In other words, they should have been implemented in most cases by now. What I have then chosen to do is to listen to the world of school and say that there is a need for more time. And when this question was submitted, we did not yet know what it was that would be reopening phase 2, which means that I have been willing to see what is now happening to this whole thing. And since re-opening phase 2 doesn't start until Monday, I think we should just breathe. In other words, I do not have such a principle that they must be implemented on some date. I just decided to postpone them for the first time, so they had until the summer break. And in recognition of the fact that we didn't know if the schools would be open or closed... a little bit or much... well, then I think we should look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513162336	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513162337	So the Minister has not yet closed the possibility of following the school partners' proposal to postpone it until September? That's still an option?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513162344	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513162346	Yeah, I think so. So, we have no idea where we are when we come across Monday simply because the schools get the guidelines on how to reopen, almost while we are standing here, and then they have to make it work in reality and see how many of them can come back and under what conditions. And that means that the timing of the national tests would seem strange to me to have very strong principles for, but that they should carry out, I think, in turn, is absolutely crucial. So let's now look at it when we come in next week, and if it turns out that things are going to be okay out there, it's one situation, but if it still turns out to be unrealistic and we're there on these terms... it's also been the background in the settings, I've heard it's not possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513162428	Sir. Jacob Mark for one last round, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513162429	There is no doubt that we disagree a little about the relevance of the national tests in their current form, so what I am fighting for is in fact doing what the school partners say and postponing them. And now, as I hear it, the Minister is opening up the door to the fact that it is not impossible for the Minister to choose to postpone them until September, as proposed by the school partners. But it's a little urgent. We're in mid-May. They must be completed by June. When can the schools expect the minister to report something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513162457	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513162459	Well, the schools can count on that when we get so far that we know how this reopening has changed. I just want to say that a week in coronatid is incredibly long, even in relation to what comes of change and everything else; a week from now the oldest classes in the schools are back on the school bench. It is just to say that these are huge changes, and that means that the pre-empting of something a week or two weeks ahead is really difficult now, and the recommendations that have been made have also come on the basis of a regime that no longer exists, namely that the oldest classes of schools were at home and that the recommendations made by the health authorities were quite different. That is why I think we should give the school world an opportunity, now that the conditions are completely changed and they have just returned, to look at where they are now, and then we will have an open discussion on it. I've never had principles about dates, I'd like to say. I've had principles about a lot, but not dates.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513162551	Thank you, Minister. The President has principles of speaking time. The question has been answered. The next question is point No. Twenty-nine on the agenda. That is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène. S 1138, also to the Minister for Children and Education, but this time by Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby from the Left... 28. The President was just too far ahead. That is point No. 28 on the agenda, and that is Question S 1118. The minister is already ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513162617	Here you go to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513162622	Thank you, Madam President. Will the Minister explain the Government's position on reopening the workshops in the country's vocational training and amu centres, since when the Prime Minister presented his expectations for the second reopening phase of Denmark on 6 May 2020, the Prime Minister did not mention anything about reopening the workshops in the country's vocational training and amu centres?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513162638	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513162640	This is such a rather strange question, because it is somehow going to be such a bit counter-productive storywriting. Because what has happened, after this question has been asked, is that an agreement has been published, and it is really my impression that we are mutually quite satisfied with that agreement. There have been some requests, and we have had a meeting of the parliamentary steering committee, which we call the group of parliamentary parties you know all about it, it may be, others don't do that sits and follows in the teaching area. The questioner himself, here as rapporteur, and also other rapporteurs, agreed that it was important for us to have something done in the area of amu. The government has taken this seriously and also taken it with and discussed with the parties, and we have, of course, reached an agreement where we have mutually decided that parts of the amu sector should already open up now, while it is supposed to be wider than that when we get to the next stage. If everything goes as we hope it does, then there will be a more general reopening in phase three. For us, amu plays an incredibly crucial role, especially at a time when unemployment is rising, but also in relation to a labour market that is at risk of breaking up on the back of this. So it can be extremely important for the employees too. We have not clarified the precise definition yet in relation to phase three, and of course the Left will be among the first to take a position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513162804	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513162805	Thank you. Well, I fully admit that a question is asked no later than 1 p.m. 12 noon on Thursday and the negotiations took place on Thursday evening. Of course today's date is going to be a little different, compared with the fact that, fortunately, we were, I would say, some parties who succeeded in getting vocational training and the amu sector into the re-opening plan. Nevertheless, I chose to maintain the issue because I actually think it is relevant to have a talk about what it means to reopen and how much it reopens. I was hoping that we could clarify that today. Because I understand that there is a great deal of uncertainty and concern in both vocational schools and amu centres in relation to what is then covered by phase two of reopening. Therefore, the question to the Minister in this Chamber is whether the Minister will not try this way, preferably to a rather large extent, to describe what it is. After all, there are a lot of young students right now who have been at home and who want to be pavers and go on training, but basically they haven't laid very many stones in recent times. Or it may be the baker's maiden who had not been with the dough in his hand because of distance learning. This also means that the gf-2 students have not had the practical courses in the last 2 months and may therefore also risk that their chances of getting an internship have just deteriorated, because they have not received the same course of instruction as the students who have gone there before them. That is why it is also a wish that the Minister in this Chamber elaborates on what is now opening up, so that the pupils and schools can have certainty as to what this means specifically for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513162941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513162942	Just before I went over here in the Parliamentary Chamber, I approved the last one and that is why it will be the final draft of the guidelines to which the sector partnership in the field of education has made recommendations and to which the parliamentary follow-up group has also made recommendations. This means that in an incredibly short time you will be able to adjust to what it means more specifically. I understand that there is a need for this. It has been important to me that both the whole sector and all the parties have been able to play their part with wise and good considerations, so that we did not make too many gaps. That does not mean that it is infallible, because there will certainly be some things that we need to look at again, but we have made an attempt to get everyone on board.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513163029	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513163029-2	Thank you. I just think that it is important for us at least to be politically signalled that we should not now go for such a limitation principle in relation to what opens up. In other words, for everything that can be opened up to health care, we believe that it should be opened up so that the vocational school pupils can also receive the training they need to be professionally skilled in the trade and crafts they are in. When we are preoccupied with both those on basic programme 1 and those on basic programme 2, but especially those on basic programme 2, then it is because they are about to have to go to an internship agreement, hopefully soon. And that is a stressful situation, which is why it is also a question, given that they have not been taught in the past two months. Is the Minister willing to extend the duration of their basic course 2 in view of the fact that it is only now that they receive their workshop lessons?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513163121	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513163121-2	Well, it's too early for me now to start discussing the transitions. For us as a government, it has been extremely important to get the guidelines in place so that schools could get started. That is, there are no teachers who have yet had the students in their hands, so to speak. That is to say, I think it is extremely important that the students come back and are in their workshops and teachers get hold of the young people and find out where the gaps are and what is needed. It is far too early to conclude on that now. I would like to say that this is one of my main concerns. In other words, of all that is in the field of education, I believe that we must give the young people who are about to have an apprenticeship, because I think there is a long way to go, and that is a very difficult time for them when the labour market looks like it does, because it usually also has a spill-over effect on the apprenticeship situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513163209	One last round in 30 seconds for Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513163212	Thank you. We fully share the view that we really need to do something for our pupils and apprentices. This is also why the Left has been proposing for several months that we should jointly draw up a student and apprentice package, taking a number of initiatives to ensure that we take care of both the internship problems, but also give priority to vocational training. Because there is a need for us to put young people first too, because unfortunately they are some of those who are at risk of getting completely out of the labour market in the crisis situation we are looking into, which is also an economic crisis. That is why I would just like to make the final comment that it is important for us that we also look at whether the Gf-2 students need an extension of their course, given that the workshops have now been closed for two months.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513163257	Thank you. The Minister for last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513163258	I really believe that there are relatively few limits to what we should look at in the sense that one of the things we have put into the first vocational training regulations, for example. It has been the case that it must be possible to provide school practical training, even for the half of the pupils who are not currently able to do so in their subjects. It is, of course, such a relatively unconventional way to go and, of course, to say something: well, we are not going to have a youth year that did not move forward. Our business community cannot bear that; young people cannot bear it; we as a society cannot stand it. Therefore, there is good reason to have a serious look at that group.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513163334	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. So we move on to paragraph No. Question No 29, which is Question No 29 S 1138. It is also for the Minister for Children and Education by Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513163342	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513163344	What is the Minister's view that the amu centres will continue to be kept closed until 8 June 2020, cf. the reopening agreement of Thursday 7 May 2020, when the unemployment rate has increased by almost 50,000 people as a result of the corona crisis, and has the Minister also considered changing the criteria for the Amu courses?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513163403	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513163404	The government and all parties of the Folketing have negotiated and invited what should be included in the next phases of a controlled reopening of Denmark, and agreements were made among all parties of the Folketing and therefore also with the Left on what was to reopen in the next phase. It is clear from the controlled reopening agreement of 7 May that the government will continue to make necessary adjustments in the public sector. This applies, among other things, to: certificate courses which are of major importance for the amu activity. It has been agreed that adult education aimed at the unemployed can become part of the third phase of the reopening of Denmark, and this also applies to amu. We in the government are particularly aware of the importance of opening up access to the amu. However, it should be noted for those who do not need to know that part of the amu courses are currently offered as online training, and there is already open to presence training on a large number of selected transport courses, and the unemployed can also participate in all certificate courses where necessary to obtain a specific job. So the thing about saying that amu is closed, I think you should really start to be careful, because it also sends out some wrong signals, in relation to what is being demanded, so if someone should live in the delusion that all activity is actually closed, then it certainly doesn't make it easier to get the training places that are available.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513163527	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513163528	Thank you for your answer. I fully agree with the Minister that we need to focus on this. Fortunately, we have succeeded in doing so, among other things. my own party to open as part of the reopening negotiations. The previous question also shows this because it was asked when it was certainly not something the Prime Minister spoke of as the government's priority. This means, among other things, that the certification courses and also the transport and cleaning areas, where they are not really certificates, but are extremely relevant in the time we are in, continue to run, that is to say, fortunately there is an opening there. However, if we look into the wider opening and thus phase three, there is also a need for, we think that we will have a look at this, and I also asked about this in the last round: what are some subjects that are extremely important in the time we are in, compared to the many newly unemployed we have, who are also entitled to 6 weeks of upgrading? As we can see from the recent figures, yes, we are talking about almost 30.000 newcomers who have a professional background, and it is about whether they can renew their truck certificate or their welding certificate. In other words, I have previously asked the Minister about the 700 who were simply losing their jobs because their welding certificate had expired or was just about to expire. It is of course important that the opening up that will then take place in the amu sector should not be small, but should really be so large that it is also an offer to the many newcomers in vocational areas who have come here as part of the Corona crisis. And that is why it is a question of whether the Minister and the government will also work actively to ensure that we see such a wide-ranging open-minded approach as the health profession is able to help the 50 000 people who have gone outside the labour market and who may need an amu course as part of re-entering the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513163710	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513163711	I would like to say that I am now a member of the trade union 3F, which is a major consumer of amu courses. It should probably be the first time ever that there was a 3F in the Assembly Hall saying that it is a really good idea that the amu sector just keeps closed for as long as possible. Nor could it seem to me in this area as Minister of Education to think: well, that is a really good idea; we are just closing all education; we are leaving the big pupils in primary school at home; why do the high school students really have to go to high school, and why is it that somebody is employed or unemployed who should have any kind of education at all? So let us close the amu sector for longer than is necessary. After all, it is Corona that is the cause of the miser, and not anyone who wants us to shut down all educational activities in our society. That would be weird, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513163757	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513163758	But when I ask, it's because it's not enough to make headlines. Well, take the discussion about first g's and second g's now that's not what the question is about. We can have a lot of opinions on this. The question is, of course, whether, in view of the fact that there are new health criteria and other things, we are willing to allow young people to come back in real terms. And in the same way, there are a large number of restrictions on the opening up of the amu sector, in which we think it is important that we do not suddenly have a negative demarcation which means that there is less open than what could actually open up, because out there you get scared and say: 'Oh, may we now?' It is important to define clearly and clearly what needs to be opened up instead of positive, as well as to say whether there are some places that cannot be opened up; so it must of course be communicated clearly, because the uncertainty that exists at the moment is in danger of affecting the unemployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513163842	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513163842-2	Well, I agree, and I think that if we could all fight that corona monster off, like the kids say in kindergarten, when you're out with them, we'd do it together. That is why I sometimes find it a little strange to have such a discussion about whether something should be closed or open, because I just haven't heard anyone think it's a good idea that things are closed more than necessary. Therefore, if you can avoid that something is closed because it is possible to keep it open for health care purposes, then everyone is happy about it. So I think that is actually fair straight forward, and I have heard nothing else when we stand in the Chamber, that is to say that there should be disagreement that we want to get the amu sector going and adult and further education going.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513163925	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby for the last round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513163926	Thank you for that answer. Then I hope that the minister's ministry will also communicate it clearly to the sector, namely that everything that has to be open, unless it has specifically been told that something is not to be open, is open, so that there is no confusion that could lead to less than what might actually be open end up opening up. I also asked whether the Minister would consider changing the criteria, and it is also about some who have gone out of the labour market in this situation, but who may need to get into other subjects. And there is, of course, an old rule which means that taking an amu course, if you have a longer education from before, ends up being more than ten times as expensive than if you have a vocational training course. Therefore, the question is whether coronate makes it relevant to rethink the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513164013	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513164013-2	I cannot at all imagine that one should ever go into a crisis where it was not worth visiting the guidelines for the unemployed, and one of the things we have taken the initiative as a government now is to set in motion an overview of what it is for some groups, that is, where it is, unemployment is increasing most, what it is for a type of employee and where it is then needed for retraining. One of the first places to be identified in this regard was cleaning because we needed a lot of extra cleaning staff because of the new hygiene requirements. And there have just been amu-courses, so that you could very quickly be trained. So I fully agree that rules of every kind that are about just the unemployed are incredibly crucial at a time when, unfortunately, we are looking into quite serious economic times and therefore more unemployment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513164100	Thank you to the questioner and to the Minister for the answer to the question. The next question is also for the Minister for Children and Education, and that is item 30 on the agenda, Question No. S 1125. There are co-questions, and the question has been asked by Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513164114	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513164116	Thank you. What concrete internship initiatives will the Minister launch now to ensure that the 14,500 pupils who are about to finish the second basic course of their vocational training will not have to go directly into school practice in order to be able to start the main course?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513164134	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513164136	Thank you for the question. One of the most important issues, in my opinion, and also one of the most serious problems we are looking at, is precisely this group of young people, and I will of course let the Left be some of the first to know when the government is ready to come up with an initiative in this area. We're not yet. We are extremely aware that an answer to how we deal with the apprenticeship situation is awaited, and the questioner is quite right that it looks difficult. This also shows the small study carried out by the Ministry, which has been sent to the Committee on Children's and Education. In March 2020, compared to March 2019, 50 per cent was spent. fewer people who got an apprenticeship. I really think that gives a very good background to understand why it really isn't going any faster, because this problem is so massive that with a fingertips to say that we're just doing this exciting, exciting thing I just don't believe you can. Some of the first initiatives we have taken are about the very acute situation. What do you do for those students who, for example, find that their company is closing down and that they are therefore losing their apprenticeship? We have dealt with such problems in the first place, as it were, and then the next big move is about what we do in relation to the apprenticeships. It can be said that now, with the reopening, we get the students back to the schools. I also replied to the colleague of the questioner a moment ago, and the teachers get hold of the students, so get hold of them in everyday life, and get an overview of what is missing. How best do we deal with the fact that there's been this hole in these months? Personally, I am very much looking forward to this as well. For one thing is the apprenticeship situation itself; another is the period when you have not been back in the workshop. And there I look forward to getting an overview from the sector once the young people have been reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513164336	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513164338	Thank you for your answer. I know, of course, that the Minister shares our view, one might say, that it is extremely important that we find the necessary internships for our young people, because there is a great deal of uncertainty out there right now. Is there an internship for me? So how long do you think young people can wait for the Minister to start giving some answers as to what the situation is for them in terms of getting an internship, i.e. some initiatives that can help undo this? How long do you think we can wait for some solutions to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513164414	How long does the Minister think... Christoffer Aagaard Melson Excuse me). Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513164419	Even after 20 years in here, you can fall in with that, I'm just saying, so the questioner doesn't have to apologize. The sooner we get started, the better I think it is. In my opinion, there must be relatively massive initiatives, because the problem here is so massive. In other words, we are looking beyond the various sectors, which sector is then suffering the biggest fall on the backs of what has happened with the corona crisis. The challenge then is that, in addition to the very acute crisis-like measures that we have taken in this area, where the hammer hits the hardest, it will also be where it is hardest to repair. And that means that this is where you can't just say with a fingertips that we spend 2.5 million. kr., and then we've solved the problem. In other words, something much more massive needs to be done here, because those who buy the apprentices are companies with the full-blow crisis, and that is why it has a complexity that does not look like the lighter problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513164524	I'm gonna keep up with you. As far as I know, sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson for another round before it is the enquirer. There you go, sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513164532	Thank you. Yes, I was not much wiser, so I would like to ask the Minister again when we can expect to see any action on this. After all, we have been asking about this for several months now. The various organisations have also been asking about this, and the minister keeps saying that it is very, very important, but we are not really getting any more specific in relation to when we can expect some answers, and I think we will soon owe that to the young people. So I would like to ask again: can we not have a date when the Minister calls for negotiations or when we can count on some solutions for young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513164603	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513164604	No, the Left can't have that. And like I said, I'll let the Left know, just like everyone else when we're ready. That thoroughness is mostly in government work, as is usually the case when the Left sits at the helm, and I think that is quite a good thing. So I'm going to say in relation to this where we're going, that it's important to say that it's not the first step. In fact, I believe that one of the very first announcements I made during the Corona crisis was about the pilot tests, because we knew that this would be one of the biggest problem areas because distance learning cannot be carried out in the same way as for high school students. So it's just to say that the questioner almost indicates that nothing has happened in the last few months... it's not quite true. Fortunately, this has not been the case, and we have made a great deal of it together, so I do not think that we should undersell it after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513164653	Thank you for answering the first part of the main questioner. Now it's the co-questioner's turn. Mrs. Ellen Trane Nørby, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513164659	Well, thank you. No, we in the Left are certainly not unhappy with the initiatives we have taken, both in terms of the pilot test and now also in terms of the opening up of the practical and professional subjects to vocational training and also the fact that we have succeeded in bringing the young apprentices and pupils who lost their jobs under the wage compensation scheme. We just don't believe that's enough. That's also why we've been in demand, including from the Minister, the last, actually almost two months. That's how long we've been doing this, what we can do together. We have also called for the convening of a tripartite agreement in the field of internship, simply as a result of the fact that there are a great many young people, both the 14,500 or so, who have now completed their course and are going to have an internship place, and also the approx. 500, who have actually lost their apprenticeship here during the crisis. And that is why the specific question to the Minister, which my colleague also asked, is: what exactly is the government thinking we should do in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513164802	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513164803	As I also said to the other rapporteur, I will let the Left know when we get there. And we won't get any closer to that. And it is simply a question of the fact that when things are as serious as they are at the moment, they must also be taken seriously, in relation to what solutions are being made on this and we have been going on for a long time. That is why it is now possible for people who lose their internship to get into school practice, even if it is an education which cannot be taken on normally when there is no corona crisis. So it is just to put it in relation to the wage compensation packages, which the rapporteur himself mentions, and the pilot test, which came to an end, incredibly soon after the coronate came into force. When I stand and say that something is going to happen in this area and that I am not ready to present what the government is going to bring, it is an expression of the fact that something is coming. In other words, I agree that there is some way to go yet, and I believe that there will be even further progress. Well, I mean, it's so serious that it's 50 percent. There are fewer apprenticeships than there used to be. So I think that the seriousness of the situation has fallen everywhere, and not least in my ministry, of course, where initiatives have been taken to investigate what it looks like. It is, of course, an expression of the fact that we believe that there is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513164919	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby for a final round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513164920	Thank you. We have also supported the extension of school practice, but the last figures I received from Danish Business Schools and upper secondary schools were that there were 209 more on the 10 programmes than there were last year. So this is not where we save the 14,500 young people who are now leaving their basic programme 2 and are going to have an internship. When we on the left are worried, it's because of what we see when we look at the numbers. Among other things: TEKNIQ has published their figures today. It's an industry that's not a business that's been shut down: the whole area of blacksmiths, plumbers, plumbers, plumbers. Among other things, you have... In the case of blacksmith training, the number of training contracts concluded fell by 80%. Now take the HORESTA area...
ParlaMint-DK_20200513164958	Thank you. Time's up. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513165002	But in a way, it seems to the rapporteur's rhetoric that we should not be aware of it or we do not have a desire to do anything about it. I mean, there's no real disagreement. Yes, the government wants us to do something about this problem. I have also heard that the Left has a wish to do so. So let us get beyond the ice and I look forward to seeing some concrete proposals from the Left. It would, of course, help the process, just as it does in all other contexts where the Left is bidding. I have seen, on the points where we have worked together, that it has been constructive. You have made concrete proposals which have made it considerably easier to solve some of the problems that lie ahead of us. So I'm quite convinced that we're gonna get into this as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513165037	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson for a last round of 30 seconds duration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513165043	I am glad that a signal is being sent here today that we are all interested in finding solutions, but I would like to conclude by asking the Minister whether she does not agree that it also matters that we find solutions relatively quickly in relation to the enormous uncertainty, in relation to those who have already lost their internship, in relation to the fact that you as a company are assured that you can afford to take in an apprentice and that there is some flexibility forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513165111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513165112	I just think it's important to say it from here, too, because it may almost sound as if it wasn't the case that some have been taken, I think that's enough? No, if I thought that was enough, it would be pretty foolish to stand here and say there's something coming from the government's hand. Then there would be no need for it. Compared to a date, I have to say no. When we are done doing the work that needs to be done so that we can give a thorough and proper and also heavy enough answer, we will publish it. And we're not doing it before that, because it's relatively inappropriate to start publishing things before the thorough piece of work that, after all, even in a time of crisis, has been completed. Under normal circumstances, such a process would take six months or a year. In coronatides, it takes about 14 days. So in relation to the pace, I think you can, after all, take it relatively calmly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513165157	Thank you to the Minister and to Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. The question has been answered. The next question is also put to the Minister for Children and Education, and this time by Mr. Stén Knuth from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513165208	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513165209	Thank you, Madam President. In accordance with the reopening agreement of Thursday, 7 May 2020, can the Minister guarantee that the large pupils will receive the learning time they are entitled to during the re-opening phase, so as not to create a significant professional gap, and does the Minister intend to initiate initiatives during the re-opening phase so that the large pupils, many of whom will have to continue their training after the summer break, can meet the professional objectives?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513165238	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513165238-2	No. And that is, of course, the incredibly short answer to why we, including the government, thought it was best to suspend this year's final exams, simply because we cannot guarantee it and the primary school law has been put out of effect, and it is because there is a global pandemic. The Folkeskole law is usually the tool we have to ensure that there is a fairly uniform professional quality, and since it has been put out of effect, we do not have that tool now. And that is to say, I wish it were as well as I think the questioner would. But that also means that guaranteeing something right now is precisely what we cannot do, and that is precisely why it is a really bad idea to have to take the kids up for a final exam, where it would then be complete in the East and West in terms of legal certainty, in terms of what kind of test preparation they have been able to get ahead of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513165332	Sir. Stén Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513165333	Thank you. And thank you for your answer. Well, it could be other initiatives than a test, I think. We can, of course, deal with a very special vintage, but the Minister and I have also discussed last week in this Chamber that, in relation to those who are particularly challenged, who are miserable, we may have a concern that they have not actually been in school for the last 6-8 weeks. After all, an analysis in March showed that if you elevate your position marks to test marks, that is to say, what they go on to upper secondary education, it might appear that upper secondary education absorbs 600 more pupils than they might have to do, because the pupils you accept have some challenges that make them unable to hold on to their education. And at the vocational schools, it's 3,000 students. Isn't that a concern the Minister has?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513165428	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513165429	I simply have to say that I do not think there is much about young people right now that is not a concern. I believe that one of the few things that is not a concern is about what is otherwise the questioner's very big hobby-horse, and which we share by the way: movement in the primary school and being outdoors and using the open school, and they have improved significantly in these weeks. So something in addition to that, I would like to say: yes, I am worried, and I am extremely concerned about the rules, which I am normally part of the contract circle behind, all the rules. I am for a reason, and it's because I think they're a really good idea to have, and what happens when those rules aren't there anymore? Well, then that means that part of what we won by those rules, we haven't won. And then many problems arise on the backs of what we hope to solve together as they pop up and one of them is included in youth education.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513165518	Sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513165519	Thank you. Now the primary school's largest students, the 9th and 10th classes, get started on Monday and in the days thereafter. Will the Minister help to discuss whether there should be elements in relation to more counselling or more teachers for the children who are particularly challenged in relation to the transition to youth education? Will the Minister help to have a conversation about it or look into it quite quickly after the reopening?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513165546	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513165547	But I certainly believe that just as soon as the teachers have had their hands on the children and start to get an overview of what this looks like it is also why it has been very important to me that, with all the flaws and shortcomings, we are carrying out the national tests this year, because they contribute to the insight that we will have to look into how it is that we help those children through who, either socially or in relation to the community or the professional, have got some gaps that we, of course, as a community, should help them to get closed down again; that is to say, they simply get up to the level, so to say. I also believe that there are some bullying problems that have flown under the radar while the students have been at home and that can draw tracks far into the community they get when they get back. I think there are many things we need to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513165629	Sir. Stén Knuth for one last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513165630	Thank you. And maybe it'll be a little bit theoretical here at the end. But if the thesis holds with 3,600 students who might have had a different path than e.g. a fgu-road, then it will mean that the more than 25 fgu-institutions we have will lose 100-130 students at each institution. Does the Minister think that there is also a particular problem with regard to the fugitive, which we must have looked down into, not to help the Fgu institutions, because they must do what they have to do, but is there a particular need for attention there?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513165705	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513165706	Well, there's a special attention to the transitions. In other words, how many people come to fgu, how many enter upper secondary education, how many get an apprenticeship? And how do they move this year in comparison with previous years? We will discuss this with each other and there is an open invitation, also to the parliamentary follow-up group, where we typically meet a few times a week. I think this is a completely relevant discussion and thank you for taking it up here too. I think we are going to look at when we know how it is distributed, some issues which we simply were not aware of and which we could not have guessed in advance. And that is at least one of the things we are very aware of from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513165744	Thank you to the Minister for the answer to the question, and thank you to the honourable Member. And so the Minister for Children and Education is free from the Assembly Hall for today. The next question is S 1139. It's a question to the Secretary of Defense, and it's asked by Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513165808	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513165809	Thank you. Does the Minister consider it reasonable that, even now, with less than 8 months left of the current contract on the SAR preparedness in Greenland, there is no clarification of the process of contract and its length, content and economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513165822	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513165824	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by stating that I am very aware of the Ministry of Defence's task solution in Greenland. This applies not least to search and rescue tasks. The land-based helicopter response in Greenland is a social-critical task for the Kingdom community, and it is a task that I look at with great earnestness. Therefore, it is important that thorough consideration is carried out of all aspects relating to the provision of helicopter preparedness in Greenland. This applies, among other things, to safety aspects. I have received the Board's assessment of the specific procurement law and security conditions associated with the specific provision of helicopter preparedness, and I can therefore inform you that it is the Ministry of Defence's assessment that a direct award can be made. This is done on the basis of the derogation from the Procurement Act on essential national security interests and on the basis of an assessment that, in the specific case, there may be a derogation from the fundamental principles of the EU Treaty. The Ministry of Defence's Material and Procurement Board therefore expects to be able to negotiate a contract with the current supplier, Air Greenland A/S. For the sake of the negotiations, I cannot go into details about the content, length and economy of the contract. I hope the questioner understands this, but I think we should welcome the fact that there is a basis now for opening negotiations so that the task can also be properly undertaken from 2021 for the benefit of Greenland and for the benefit of the Kingdom Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170001	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170002	Thank you for that and I am really glad to hear that a decision has finally been taken on how some of these things are going to take place. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister whether she shares the criticism that has been levelled at Greenlandic politicians in relation to the insecurity that has resulted from the fact that so long has elapsed before any clarification has been given as to how to proceed. And if it is something one intends to learn from in relation to the future, when it is something as sensitive as the preparedness; that another time perhaps one was out in a slightly better time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170037	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170038	Of course, I cannot explain the process that existed before I came into office as a minister. But I can say that the solution we have come up with, which is about the direct allocation, I think is a very good model. But it is clear that the legal basis must be in order. It is not possible to start using the direct award option without the legal basis below being in place, i.e. to derogate from procurement rules. But I am pleased that we have come up with this solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170116	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170117	I think that was a little unanswered, because the criticism has been that it is very difficult at such short notice to offer this task. But I will then ask the Minister and I do not know if she can go into it in relation to the preparedness that exists today, i.e. whether you are satisfied with the level of service that is being delivered. Or whether we can look forward to getting a better level of service on the alert forwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170143	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170144	What is now to be negotiated is a new contract, and that is both the content and the scope, and that is also the time perspective. And I think that's best left to a debate. Because if I had already started to set up some criteria, then far too much would have been predicted in relation to that debate. After all, there are two sides to agree on a price in the middle. So I do not think it is good that we are taking this kind of discussion into the Chamber. But I think everyone is pleased that this process has now ended and that there is a clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170229	The questioner for the final round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170231	Thank you for that and thank you for the answers. I think we've moved on in the last few days compared to this. I will end by asking again whether this is the new normal, or whether we can expect, in the future, that when it comes to preparedness, we will be out for a little better time. So it is not really a deadline that pushes through a solution, but that you have better time to implement the right solutions when it comes to preparedness in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170259	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170300	Once again, I have to say that I find it very difficult to explain my political position on the course ahead of my being a minister. But I can say that we now have a clarification that there will be a direct award and that the legal basis is in order in relation to that I think is beneficial to all parties. Finally, I would also like to say that I think it is extremely important that we have a close and good dialogue with Greenland. And it's certainly something I've been working on to make sure that you don't have any unfinished business, and that you also make sure you look a little further forward in the crystal ball on this type of case.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170344	Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister for Defence for answering the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170356	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170358	Thank you. Does the Minister agree with his party colleague Mr. Troels Ravn in that it is incomprehensible that JYSK cannot establish itself in Billund, given that everyone wants to have a Denmark in balance with business development, jobs and settlement outside the largest cities and metropolis that the Minister's party colleague has written on Facebook?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170421	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170422	Thank you for that and also thank you for the question. I fully agree, of course, that Denmark must be in balance with business development, jobs and settlement outside the largest cities. We need a coherent Denmark that does not break into the middle, but where our cities throughout the country can thrive and where a JYSK must also be able to establish itself in a city like Billund. Fortunately, this is also the case. The planning law makes a distinction between shops which sell particularly bulky goods and ordinary selection stores. Specially bulky goods can, for example: be cars or building materials, or the like, where the goods require a great deal of space. As far as I am aware, JYSK wishes to establish a store in an area which Billund Municipality has laid out for shops with particularly bulky goods. And they can only do that if they sell that kind of goods alone. In this respect, the Vestre Landsret has previously confirmed that an ordinary JYSK cannot be characterised as a shop that only sells particularly bulky goods, and therefore JYSK cannot establish itself in an area that is laid out by the municipality for shops with particularly bulky goods. On the other hand, JYSK can set up shops in areas that are laid out by the municipality for selection stores. In this context, the Planning Act provides the municipalities with several different options to plan for areas for committee stores. It is therefore up to Billund Municipality to assess which solution they think can best allow for a JYSK. The Planning Act does not prevent Billund Municipality from changing planning for an area laid out for shops with particularly bulky goods to an area where selection shops like JYSK can be built, such as: a relief area. The municipality must, of course, comply with the requirements of the Planning Act. So it is within Billund Municipality's discretion to plan for the detailed structure that is desired and needed locally, and it is therefore up to Billund Municipality whether they want to plan for committee stores such as JYSK. I think it makes sense for the municipalities to have the planning competence in the retail sector. They are the ones who know the local preferences and needs best.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170636	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170637	Thank you for your answer. I am very pleased that the Minister for Industry agrees that it is important to have good opportunities for you to put your mark on the municipality card yourself, in relation to how the shops are placed. I would like the Minister to be able to specify a little more in some way, in relation to whether there are other requirements in the Planning Act that make it a problem for Billund Municipality just to change their local level and thus actually nod yes to JYSK being able to establish itself. So, are there additional requirements in the planning act itself that the municipality has to comply with before it can be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170728	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170729	As I have been informed, the schism here is that you have the area in question at Billund. It is laid out for particularly bulky shops, and they are JYSK so not part of the court has confirmed it. But if you turn the area in question into an area for selection stores, JYSK will be able to be there. I think that this is probably about having a local debate on local planning too, because it is clear that if you give it the opportunity, you do not only give it to JYSK, you do give it to committee stores in general. And I could imagine that it is some of the things behind it; but I am not informed that there should be other conditions that stand, I had almost said, in the way here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170809	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170810	I am also just trying to be completely reassured on this matter myself, because it is clear that it is easy to go out and boast that things are now in place, and then you just need to get this under control in order to change the local plan. What I hear someone say is that there must also be a requirement for certain types of shops to be placed in that area, perhaps food shops. I do not know whether that is something that the Minister can confirm, i.e. whether it can be one of the stones on the road that prevents you from nodding a yes to JYSK being there?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170845	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170846	I think that what I can best advise on is that Billund Municipality and the Danish Business Authority are talking in this case about what opportunities there are and whether there are other requirements or criteria that apply. I have just been told that there is a possibility that you can transform the character of the area and that it allows room for the type of store that JYSK is also. Then I have also read a little in the Folkebladet and just want to make it clear that this is not a matter where a decision has been made in the Ministry. This is clear from the paper, and I think that may just be part of the matter. This is something that has been decided by local authorities, and it is also something that can be changed by local authorities with new local planning.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170928	The questioner for a last round of 1⁄2 minute duration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170931	I have to thank you for the answers. I sometimes encounter these perhaps some misunderstandings still around the municipalities, where you think it's the law of plans that prevents something. This may lead me to ask at the end: do we need Christiansborg to make it even more clear that the municipalities themselves actually have the authority to do something in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170956	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513170956-2	In any case, there is a basis for the planning act and we are already evaluating the planning act to see how the planning act works. And in this context, it is not unnatural also as politicians to discuss whether you can find your way around it. Sometimes I also think that it may be • I don't know how to say it • a little nice that it sounds like something else is in the way where it really is something local. I don't know if the questioner knows where I'm going. But, of course, we have to be able to cut through that from in here. I just want to make it clear that a JYSK store can well be located in an area for committee stores, and it is within the framework of the local planning option in the City of Billund, if you want to do it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513171035	Thank you to the questioner. I would also like to thank the Minister for Industry for answering the questions. The next item is item 34: questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration by Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. There is also a co-questioner in the form of Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513171053	Here you go to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513171056	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that the Mosque of Peace held a prayer call in Gellerup on Friday, and does the Minister believe that it should be banned?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513171108	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513171109	Thank you for the question. I understand that it has aroused awareness that last Friday the mosque in question called for Islamic prayer in the middle of a football field in western Aarhus. In Denmark, it is the case that one must cultivate one's faith freely, just as one can, under normal circumstances, gather together to cultivate one's faith in a way that is consistent with one's own beliefs, as long as it does not conflict with public order, and the government generally has no problem with citizens signaling association with a particular religion, in fact not at all. However, I think that this kind of prayer call is presumptuous towards the citizens who live nearby and who have to listen to it, and I would therefore also urge religions to show consideration for the surrounding community. We do not think in the government that we are there now when we can say that we should consider whether a ban can and should be imposed. So far, fortunately, we have only seen one or two examples in an extraordinary time of crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513171209	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513171210	Thank you. The Minister does not want to legislate on the prohibition of minarets. The Minister has already said so on a similar oral question. The Minister also does not think that we should legislate against calling for prayer, as happened at the Mosque of Freden, for that is what they should do locally, the Minister believes. You're allowed to local Islamicize society. The Minister disagrees, says the Minister, but does not want to use his position as Minister to ban it. Now we have had prayer calls from Fredens Mosque from a football field and with big speakers. It is legal as long as it does not exceed a certain decibel and otherwise you are allowed to use the football field. And if you're a bit creative, anyone in the country may be able to take the same approach, and vupti, we have prayer calls all over the country, not just for Friday prayers, but the five daily prayers. Is that what the Minister wants to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513171303	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513171304	No. We are not going into a situation where there are prayer calls for five daily prayers where you turn to Mecca. Then Denmark will not become the country we care about, so we will become another country. We are at a turning point now, when we need to figure out how this society can work with thousands of Muslim citizens, and it is clear that if people continue to behave presumptuously, if we see many examples of this, then I see no other option than that the Folketing must take a step forward and start to legislate on more things. The most well-known example is perhaps the burka ban. I think that was never achieved in the 1950s, but we have done so now. I hope we don't get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513171350	Thank you. That's the questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513171351	That's right. You can forbid if you really want to. But I think it's kind of a déjà vu, because I think I've tried it before. In other words, the Minister will not forbid it now, because the scale is not serious and violent enough. But again, it's just like the last time we stood here 14 days ago. At that time, the Minister was not opposed to a real ban on praying rooms at educational establishments when the volume is large enough, and the Minister said that there must be a certain practical, real, real problem before you start to resort to legislation, and I hear that again now. I think it is a real, practical, real, real problem. I think it is. There's a lot of touching about this, and the Minister knows that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513171434	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513171435	But I have a bit of déjà vu myself, and that is because we actually have the same views here in many ways. But what the disagreements are about is: do we have a practical and real problem of some extent requiring the Folketing to take a step forward and start regulating our society more in detail? Or do we have to make a strong appeal so far, for example. is not practicing its religion in a way that is presumptuous and noisy to others and is in the process of changing our society in a way that the vast majority of the Danish population cannot support in any way? I mean, we're at that turnaround time. The Danish People's Party, I hear, has concluded. We are not where we conclude it yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513171516	Thank you, Minister. Then it's the co-questioner's turn. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, 1 minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513171523	Thank you, President. The minister says we're in a recovery time. That is to say, there are two or more things that come together. Well, I guess it's now that it's important that we show what's Denmark and what's not Denmark. If we bow down at a time of wrestling, the stranger will be inclined, yes, it also means that Denmark will be something quite different from what we in the Danish People's Party think it should be and, as the Minister would certainly like to give the impression, it is also what he thinks. So I guess at a time when you're gonna have to say no. The minister says prayer calls, as we see in Aarhus right now, are presumptuous. What does the Minister intend to do? What does the Minister really intend to do to ensure that the recovery time becomes a cause from which Danish culture gets well and where we do not end up in some inter-integration compromise, where it will then be a little Islam and a little Denmark? We will never accept that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513171621	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513171622	It should not be a little Islam and a little Denmark. That's 100 percent. Denmark. There should be no doubt about that at all. I would also very much like to say no. I think it is presumptuous, and I think it is inappropriate, and if more and more of this happens, I think it is quite natural that the Folketing should take a step forward and start to legislate. This recovery time we are in is as follows: Should we be a society that regulates all these conditions down to the utmost detail, or are we able to win the vast majority of the Muslim population over to a position that says that of course one can practice one's religion, but that is within the framework of the principles and the culture that we have in Danish society. It's the turnaround time, and I'm confident. We'll make it work. Denmark comes out of this stronger, but in the first place I do not believe that the method is to legislate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513171710	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513171711	No, Minister. This is not a break between whether to legislate or not. This is a turning-point between Denmark as a thousand-year Christian kingdom and then an intrusive, presumptuous Islamic religion, which in many areas enforces right in public space, and there is the decisive factor for the refraction period, whether minister is enough to say: we simply do not find ourselves in it. It is not a question of regulation against non-regulation. There is a question as to whether the Minister is on the right side of history, and it is a question of stopping the rise of Islam in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513171744	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513171745	When we talk about history, I think that the questioner and I were both born in 1981. Morten Messerschmidt Yes, that certainly means that we both wore diapers when the Aliens Act was passed. We grew up in this community. It's been a condition for us all our lives. Our task, our generation of politicians, is to find out how the people who live in this society can work together on democratic terms and as part of the Danish cultural framework. I believe that this can be achieved because we can win the people and immigrants over to democracy. It will succeed, but it requires us to be precise, and I would like to say no, but I am not where I am going to legislate every time there is a single example of someone breaking with Danish culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513171827	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the co-author. Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard again and it is for a final round of 1⁄2 minutes duration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513171834	Thank you. I would just like to point out that the Minister said earlier that it was agreed to ban burkas. Yeah, and that was good. Then I can't help thinking that it wasn't such a huge problem, but it was a problem. It was nevertheless done, and I think it was very, very wise, before it began to spread too much. That is just what I would ask the Minister to do exactly the same in relation to these things. I want to be positive, I want to be constructive, I love our lovely country and our society, but I see that some things are happening in these years that we cannot accept, and I do not think that there is anything else to say but that it should be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513171919	Thanks to the questioner. It's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513171920	I have lived in the area around Nørrebro Station when the discussion about the burkas was topical, and I could read in the newspapers that there were some who thought it was symbol politics, because there was virtually no one, and then I could walk out the door and just go down to Netto, and then it was right in front of my nose. So whether it is present and topical and a big problem or not may also depend on where you live. My impression is that there is no general problem in Danish society with prayer calls from minarets. Seriously, if there was, I think we should regulate it, but that is just not where we are, and that is why I believe, in fact, for the sake of public support for strict immigration policy, that we should be careful that it does not go crazy. We must not solve problems that do not exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513172004	Thank you to the Minister for your reply and the question has been answered. The next question is also for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and also for Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and also for co-authors.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513172014	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513172017	Thank you. Does the Minister believe that the higher incidence of covid-19, as has now been shown to be over-represented in the Western Communes, where, as you know, many immigrants from North Africa and the Middle East live, has anything to do with the challenges of immigration and parallel societies?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513172031	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513172032	Yeah. I don't think it's gonna work too. I'm aware that the Statens Serum Institute is pointing to some things that may be the reason why we see this over-representation, for example. that among immigrants and descendants there are more people living close, that is to say, more people living in fewer square meters and that it may have something to do with what kind of job you have. I fully understand that it can be harder for a bus driver to work from home than it can for an official who can sit at home in the kitchen with his laptop. I also fully understand that it can be harder to keep the kids away from other kids and keep away if you live on the third floor than if you have a trampoline in the backyard. All of this is obvious, so there are some social reasons why we see these figures here. My best guess, however, will be that there is no data on the fact that there are also cultural differences, and that is why I think there is a basis for discussing how we are going to get the message right and how we are appealing to immigrants and descendants of immigrants to get to the top of the toe and do everything possible to comply with the recommendations of the authorities, because there is no doubt that there are too many infected people in the Western part of Copenhagen in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513172154	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513172155	There are far too many infected people and it did not come as a surprise, and I do not think it did for the Minister. I noticed at least that the minister was at the forefront of his facebook update. But I would like to say that this is due to parallel societies. I know all the other explanations given by the Minister about social differences and so on, and yes, it is there, but it is due to parallel societies. There is generally a resistance to Danish authorities in parallel societies. You listen more to imams than to the Danish authorities. There are cultural, family and social differences, yes, but there is also less hygiene. Well, just look at the many sour smileys that are around in kiosks and immigrant restaurants... that's the facts. So, of course, that also matters, and of course the Minister will also have to say that is the case. You have to look at all those who do things their own way and do not want to be integrated. And now it's really dangerous for Danish society. It is not just provocative, but it is really dangerous for themselves and for all of us, because it is a risk of infection that we must not overlook.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513172307	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513172308	Firstly, I believe that in this debate because it is toxic and because many people can be stumbled by the debate that may be, it is important that we say things clearly, directly and plainly, but that it is also based on facts. Therefore, I was pleased with the report that came from the Statens Serum Institute, which shows that there is quite a marked over-representation, in fact not so much in the country, but more in the metropolitan area. It's good. It's so far so good. Then we can turn up the information effort, we can reach out to practitioners, we can tackle those sectors where there are many people employed, and we can start a public debate. I think that is all beneficial. I am probably not where I will be able to say that it is precisely these and the cultural reasons that cause us to see an over-representation, and I would strongly urge that it be a joint task for the entire population of Denmark, regardless of the origin of the infection chains, and that we do not identify individual populations as the whole cause.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513172402	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, 1⁄2 minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513172404	Yes, but I think you have to look at those who do things their own way, and the next problem is, of course, what we do about it. Well, that's the next big problem that we have to take a position on. However, I think it is necessary to point out from the Minister that the recommendations of the authorities are taken differently, as with so much else. That's just the way it is, and I think it's deeply depressing. I myself have been over so cautiously, so to speak, I must say, those areas, and I was more shocked to see what is going on in the bazaars, on the streets, how people crawl together and do not comply at all with the need for stripes and alcohol, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513172447	Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513172448	I think it is part of the discussion that by far, by far, the vast majority are able to comply with the guidelines of the authorities. And then, unfortunately, there is a group, and that is not an insignificant group. Unfortunately, there is a group which, if you walk through the street, completely ignores all recommendations. And I believe that we must be extremely precise in our efforts to combat the chains of infection and break them, and that is also true of the fact that there is an over-representation and, indeed, there are more infected, not only because of social causes, but also because of social causes. Because if these were only cultural reasons, we would, for example, be doing so. see more Syrian citizens infected, but they are actually less infected than the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513172533	Thank you, Minister. Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513172539	Yes, or it is due to the fact that the Syrians have come here so relatively recently that they have not yet entered the areas in question, which Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard is talking about, in other words in these ghetto areas. There is, of course, a complete connection, not only in Denmark, but indeed throughout Europe, between poor integration and a lack of willingness to comply with the instructions of the authorities and then the Islamic population. That is why I think it seems rather thin when the Minister says that it is a matter of just having a public dialogue. Well, what does that mean? So, would the Minister invite us to a dialogue coffee with the Arab boys who run around in groups and are completely indifferent and almost take pride in defying the police and the authorities? How does the Minister know that the vast majority of the population of these groups have complied with the rules? Because when I'm through, for example... Nørrebro, there has been a complete absence of police and the clean, Middle Eastern Ramallah trends inside supermarkets, etc., where one was not willing or probably not able to comply with the instructions of the authorities because one simply does not understand them, because one does not speak Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513172644	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513172645	When we have relatively low rates of infection in Denmark we have fewer and fewer in intensive care, we have fewer and fewer in respirator, and it is actually going quite well, in Jutland, to deal with this situation, it is because far, by far, the majority of the population backs up. I also believe that by far, by far the majority of the population can be reached with information, dialogue and recommendations, but it is true that there are cases where we have seen pictures from Gellerup recently. It only helps that the police drop by with the fine block and issue some fines, and I hope that they will do so next time. Unfortunately, they did not reach the much-mentioned episode. I understand there was a road accident with one of the police cars. I am betting that next time they will have included the huge fine block, because it is clear that some cannot be reached with leaflets and recommendations; some can only be reached with the hammer, and so it must be. But as a starting point, we must meet people with confidence and confidence.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513172735	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513172736	But then, Minister, when the Minister replies to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, it is also a matter of saying that the vast majority of the population can find out about this, yes, that is quite right, that is to say the Christian part; that is to say, those who are actually Danes. What we are talking about here and the question raised by Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard is, of course, specific in relation to the areas where we have ghettos • Muslim ghettos well to notice. After all, they are the ones who are unable to comply with the rules, and that is probably why we are looking at hospitals, that the rates of infection are so extremely high among the North African and Middle Eastern groups. And it is strange that the Minister feels more inclined to ignore and commend the Danes who can find a way of complying with the rules than actually commenting on and dealing with the problem we have with a total absence of integration compared to this very specific group.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513172816	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513172817	But I do not think it is fair that the questioner should say that those who can find out are the Christian Danes. Because when we see such a successful handling of the Corona situation, it is not because there is a particular religious part of the Danish population that supports the recommendations, it is because far, by far, the vast majority of the population, regardless of their origin, is fully aware of the situation we are in. It is true that there is a specific challenge with immigrants and descendants. It's obvious. We can see that in the figures, but from there and then to conclude that it means that it is the Christian Danes who are able to comply with the recommendations, I think it is too narrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513172858	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the co-author. This gives Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard the floor again for a final round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513172903	Thank you. Well, we are a little back to what the Minister himself said, i.e. next time the police are going out with the huge fine block and so on. Then I would just recommend that you get off on time and you take care of accidents and so on. and maybe you bring more than one police car, because I actually think there's a need for that. Let's just say that. But back to what I have raised a question about. There is a huge challenge, and what is being done in relation to the current case to prevent this infection from spreading? There are also Danes who violate these bans and who gather in different places. But there we see that the police are and pay a fine. What is the problem is that I do not see it elsewhere, and I think that is a huge problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513172951	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513172952	If it were the case that the police only drive out and write out fines to them with blue eyes, but condone immigrants in certain residential areas, then I would agree with the questioner that we would have a gigantic social problem, but that is not my view. My view is that the police are able to be color-blind and that, to the extent that someone breaks, for example, they are able to be color-blind. The ban on assembly, then writes fines or gets scattered the assembly. If this is not the case, it is of course very regrettable, but I have every confidence that the police are able to deal with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513173027	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the authors. The question has been answered. The next item is also a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. That's also co-questioner, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, and the questioner this time is Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513173042	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513173044	Thank you very much. The question is this: what is the Minister's view that the coronapandemic has made clear that we in Denmark have serious problems with Muslim parallel societies, as we see in the strong spread of infection in the ghettos and dominance behaviour with, among other things. Prayer calls and motorcades in Gellerup?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513173109	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513173110	Thank you for the question of my position on these matters. First of all, I am opposed to parallel societies; secondly, I think prayer calls are presumptuous; thirdly, I hope that the police will stop by with the bill of fines • both if people throw banners out of buildings, or if they drive around honking wildly in the streets and hanging out the windows, thereby breaking traffic laws. I think I'll stop there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513173141	Then that's the questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513173142	Yeah, but then I get extra time, I guess, with the short answer! No, I'm sure we can handle that. What I would like to ask the Minister here is what the Minister really intends to do about this situation. We have, of course, discovered recently that just getting figures for the increased spread of infection that we are unfortunately seeing in the ghetto areas we are talking about here has been very difficult. At first there was some resistance within the system, it must be said, in relation to getting the figures at all ■ that was at least the interpretation we had in the Danish People's Party. Then came the figures, and then they showed what, unfortunately, we see elsewhere in Europe, namely that non-western immigrants are less able to comply with the rules that we have all submitted to in the context of the Coronapandemic. Then I would also like to ask the Minister about these incidents that we have seen in Gellerup. For are they not really the expression that we have some ghetto areas in Denmark that increasingly do not want to be part of Danish society? We therefore do not want to comply with the demands we make of ourselves, who live in Denmark, in the fight against the corona. You can see it very provocative when you see such a prayer call that they are sitting right next to each other, and certainly not complying with the distance requirements that we have all been subjected to. Paragraph 1: Does the Minister agree that there is a huge challenge here? And paragraph 2: What does the government intend to do about it so that we in the Folketing can show active action? 'Cause that can't go on. I think we all agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513173341	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513173342	I was supposed to interview my grandmother for a book I wrote, and fortunately, I made it right before she died. I asked her which day was the greatest in her life, and then she said: On the day I got an apartment in Gellerupparken. It was completely new, and she was the very first to move in. Moving to Gellerup Park was a vision for the future for an ordinary Danish working family. It's not today. And it isn't, because when we do, for example... see the incidents to which the questioner refers, on social media, many of us sit and think: Tell me, is it Denmark, or is it the Middle East I am looking at? And we do not want Danish society to change to the Middle East; we like living in Denmark better. That is why I think it is perfectly legitimate that both the author's party and my own are in the process of a rather extensive change in some of the most vulnerable residential areas in Denmark. There is a lot of debate about this: is it now fair that people should move and buildings should be demolished? I think that is the only right thing to do, and if we succeed in 2030, we will have zero housing areas on these lists, which are so tired, because there are too many unemployed, too many who have committed crime, too few who speak Danish. So we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513173446	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513173448	Thank you. I really think that some good things have been said by the Minister, but I would just like to say that I am lacking some active action here, because we have heard from the Minister's colleague, the Minister for Justice, earlier today, that there will be no question of the absence of the police at this prayer call, which means that the rules are not being complied with at all. The Minister has said earlier in this Chamber that this prayer call will not prevent us from showing domination on a lawn in Gellerup. Can the Minister not see that we are not really coming to the rescue of the Danish people here if we do nothing? I am also thinking of the small things, because the small things are actually very important for integration and for the fight against the wrong developments, we see in some places in the ghettos.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513173545	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513173546	One cannot just sit back and talk, and I agree entirely with the questioner. But that is something else that is happening. Housing blocks are being overturned, the housing composition is being changed, the distribution of pupils in high schools needs to be changed, there are plenty of decisions being made that children are going to day care. We have made a lot of good political decisions that we are in the middle of implementing. What this discussion is about is whether or not we should also decide that we want to ban prayer calls, and there's just the position of the government that it doesn't have a scope... we've seen one example... where we think the Folketing should legislate. But we have said what our political point of view is and we would also like to say that if we end up in a situation where five times a day is called to prayer, then we have to respond to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513173633	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513173637	Thank you, President. What is disturbing about the Minister's reply is that it has been the same response from successive governments back in 1983, that is to say that small changes will be accepted. Now in relation to prayer calls: It's just small, and now let's see how it goes; yes, it's a little presumptuous, but, etc. It is the entire reconciliation line against Islam that ends up being a capitulation. Because what's the guarantee for a ghetto building to tear down here or in Gellerup that the behavior, the mentality, the culture that we see unfolding in these areas, so not just moving out? What would make these Arab boys not outside the ghetto feel superior to Danes, superior to Danish girls and superior to Danish authorities? After all, it is a matter of their behaviour, as they do at home in Ramallah and in the Middle East. What would make them change their behavior, sir? Minister, when the Minister does not want to ban it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513173739	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513173740	The questioner is right that there has been a lot of talk since 1983. However, I would not agree with the questioner that the agreements made to combat parallel societies are just talk. It's tough real policy that's gonna change these residential areas for the better. And it is really important that in these years we stick to the agreements and stick to implementing the decisions we have made, even if it causes a little friction and hurts a little. 'Cause we're heading somewhere better in these residential areas, luckily. Where I can then also have a little concern myself is that we can change the physical forms. We can have the kids in day care. We can do all that, but can we also win the cultural battle? Can we get people on the side of democracy? And to that I would say: the whole thing starts with the fact that we in the Danish Parliament are making the point that we are not in a fight against Islam, as I can hear the questioner a little suggesting. We are fighting for democracy, and we must insist that what the vast majority of Muslims show every day, namely that they can easily practise their religion while at the same time being vivid and active democrats, the last small minority can also join in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513173840	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513173841	The only examples in the history of the world that Muslims can be democrats are when they are in the minority. There is not a single Islamic country that is democratic. And if the Minister were to look out the window, he would be able to see that the anti-democratic tendencies are actually growing, including among the Danish Muslim population. We just got the other day the Freedom of Speech Commission's words on how to look at the relationship between religion and politics. We have seen the general view of being integrated and so on. It's going downhill, Minister. That is why it has to be said that it does so for one reason, because we do not have a minister who, at a time when there is a turnaround, will say: we do not bow to Islam.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513173918	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513173919	Democracy does not bow to Sharia. We'll never do that. We're not moving a millimeter. Two hundred and ten percent agree on that. But I will insist that this is not a decaying story. We're in the process of succeeding. Danish society comes out stronger on the other side. There is a new generation of young descendants of immigrants who embrace democracy, who interfere in the debate, who engage, who take education and who are an active part of Danish society. They're going to help us, we're on their side, and they're going to help us bring down the radicalized types. This is gonna work. And the Danish People's Party will also support it. I'm absolutely sure of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513173959	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup. Peter Skaarup is the main questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513174009	I welcome the Minister's optimism. I just don't think the residents of the Gellerup plan who look over a football field and hear the prayers crawling all over this area, sky-high, share optimism. I don't think they believe what the Minister says. But I would like to ask the Minister something, because I think there is such a denial in what is being said here, that Islam must not be harmed and that it has little to do with Islam. But it has something to do with Islam. After all, it is about Islam sitting above the law: that there is someone who believes that the law is not highest, but that it is religion that is highest. And that's why you don't follow the law. That is really what is at the heart of the matter, and I am therefore surprised that we do not look that fact in the eye and act upon it and ban these prayer calls.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513174104	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513174105	I agree one hundred and ten per cent that the crux of the matter is: does the Danish democracy, the constitution, the rule of the people, take precedence over religious rules, or is it vice versa? If it now says in the traffic law that you have to drive on the right side of the road, and in the Koran that you have to drive on the left side of the road, which side of the road do Muslims have to drive on? But they have to drive on the right side of the road. Because when democracy and religion collide, it is God who has a duty to give way. And it sounds banal and simple, but it's exactly the value struggle we're in, and I'm delighted that more and more of the people I meet are ready for this as Muslims. They practice their religion in the same way as many Christians practice their religion: within the framework of popular rule. But I would also like to acknowledge, and it pains me to acknowledge, that when I see that prayer call or when I hear of another example of social control, I am thinking of my black days: are we really moving forward, or are we going down a black hole? But I am still optimistic, among other things. of looking at the statistics, and then just of living in Albertslund, where there are plenty of immigrants.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513174209	Thank you. And then the question is closed. The next question is also for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and that is by Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513174218	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513174221	Thank you. Will the Minister open the border for families who have relatives in Denmark and Germany respectively, so visits to the demented, pregnant, sick or beloved are allowed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513174233	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513174234	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by saying that I have a great deal of sympathy for the fact that it can be seen as intrusive not to be able to visit your close at this time. This applies regardless of which country you enter and what nationality you have. If a purpose is considered to be worthy of recognition, either in general terms or on the basis of a specific assessment, then nationality or the country from which entry takes place is not the determining factor. That is what matters. And as the questioner is also aware, some examples of worthy purposes have been listed on the corona-specific website of the police. For example, visits to seriously ill family members in Denmark are: please tell your doctor or pharmacist. The list is not exhaustive. Other purposes than those mentioned could also be regarded as worthy of recognition. The assessment of whether situations other than those mentioned may be considered to constitute such a worthy purpose shall be carried out by the police on a case-by-case basis. We are constantly considering in the government whether there is a need to adjust these entry restrictions, and as part of this gradual re-opening of Denmark they have also been relieved, for example. visits by spouses, regular couples, children and parents are generally to be regarded as worthy of recognition. However, it is also important for us to proceed with caution so that we do not risk compromising the positive development of the management of corona. I would like to emphasise that the government has no desire to maintain entry restrictions longer than necessary. As stated in the agreement with the parties of the Folketing, the government will report on the entry restrictions by 1 June 2020, i.e. to the 1st day, in the light of developments in Denmark and in our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513174411	Thank you. Here you go, that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513174413	Thank you, Minister. But there is no answer to what it is that needs to be done. My inbox is filled with inquiries from people who can't visit their demented father, their sick aunt; boyfriends who can't visit each other because they live separately on separate sides of the border. What prevents the Minister from signaling more relaxed demands on those situations, in respect of the fact that family relationships are slightly different in a border country? There are some other types of ways to be together as a family. After all, the Minister needs to give some guidelines to the police, so that you do not depend on the individual policeman standing in the specific case and having to let his good heart run away or stick restrictively to what the Minister's statements have been. So, Minister, what's it gonna take for these families to visit each other?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513174516	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513174517	As I also briefly mentioned in my speech, the police on its website have described a number of worthy purposes, and that list has also been extended since the initial decision on the entry restrictions started. We have also tried to describe what is certainly not a worthy purpose of recognition. But the questioner is right that there is a grey area in between, and that is the specific and individual assessment made by the police on the border. It is clear that the longer this situation lasts, the more we have to take it into account, and that is why we have continually added more worthy of recognition. We have then said, most recently in connection with the agreement with the parties of the Danish Parliament, that by 1 June we will report further. But it's not yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513174606	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513174607	There are still many days left in May, and all those days come on top of all the days when you have been prevented from seeing each other as I say: the demented father, the sick aunt. 'Cause it's not gonna be included. But let me ask you quite specifically, a couple of boyfriends who have separate residences. Will the Minister open up the possibility that even if you do not have the same residence but one lives in Germany and the other lives in Denmark, you can visit each other?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513174638	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513174639	In the first place, we have said solid cohabitants. It takes more than just being a boyfriend. But that does not mean that the specific situation to which the honourable Member refers would necessarily not be acceptable. I simply do not dare to decide that here. The police will have to decide that in the specific case.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513174701	Thank you. Then we have a co-questioner. Here you go, Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513174706	Thank you. In fact, I do not think it is particularly appropriate for the Minister to stand here and disclaim responsibility and say that it is up to the police to decide. I fully agree that it is the police who carry out the individual proceedings, but I actually think it is inconvenient as the Minister stands here. If we now know that it was a political decision to close the border, then we also know that a political decision is necessary in order to reopen the border. In fact, I do not think it is particularly appropriate for the Minister to stand here and rub off on the police, if I may put it that way. Will the Minister then ask whether he should take the initiative to clarify the guidelines to the police so that the example given by Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, where a couple live on opposite sides of the border, is met so that they can meet?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513174758	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513174759	I really don't want to give up my responsibilities. I am quite sure that all government ministers are deeply aware that there is a great deal of responsibility on everyone's shoulders, both in the government and in the rest of the Parliamentary Chamber these days. There are plenty of Danes who suffer great deprivation: confirmations that are cancelled, afterschool stays that have been destroyed, a lot of things. There is also a lot of deprivation in the border country; I have no doubt about that at all. It's not the police's fault. It is a responsibility that is here and nowhere else. I must also just insist that now that there is a questioner referring to a specific case, I find it difficult to stand here and turn my thumb up or down, but I can just say that it is certainly not per. automatic is a worthy purpose of recognition, that you are lovers and have a residence on either side of the border. At least I can tell you that. However, we have added to the list of worthy purposes of recognition the example of permanent cohabitants and spouses.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513174854	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513174855	So the Minister will not in any way take the initiative that the loving couple should have the opportunity to meet and have their normal family life. I think that's sad. It is particularly sad in a year when we had the prospect of celebrating and celebrating the hundredth anniversary of reunification. I think it is a very, very boring answer to give the many people who have their daily lives on each side of the border but who, of course, form a community. That is why I have to ask again: why will the Minister not allow two lovers to meet across the border? After all, it's about giving the opportunity to get together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513174945	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513174946	Free movement across the Danish-German border is a huge gain for Danish society, both economically and culturally. I'm a huge fan of Germany myself. My one son has a German name. I love Germany, and it pains me to see what is happening on the border these days. It really does. So that's not the reason we love to keep the border closed. That is because we are trying to deal with the current situation with corona. And we have to get these two to meet. It's terrible to hear that they can't meet. There are plenty of people who suffer deprivation in these days and weeks and months, and hopefully we have to deal with it. But the worst thing we can do now is be careless, because then we'll be beaten back in the ludo, and then we can start over.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513175024	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen who ends.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513175027	If the Minister is tormented so badly, the Minister could take the responsibility of saying that the grey area, as the Minister has just pointed out, would like to narrow it down. I could arrange to send a number of examples to the Minister that people feel that it is quite unreasonable that they are not allowed to have any association. The Minister could himself open the door to people writing about their specific cases, and in this way the Minister could take responsibility and narrow down the grey area that is today. So will the Minister today give an undertaking that the Minister will go home and look at where to narrow down the grey zone and give clearer information to the police and thus resolve many of the challenges that exist in the border country today?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513175113	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513175114	The police have a hotline to turn to, and I have also received enquiries from other members of the Folketing about specific cases. Information from both channels has helped narrow the grey zone and clarify how we deal with the situation on the border. So people are always welcome to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513175133	Thank you. The question is closed. The next is to the Minister for Employment from Mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513175140	Here you go. The question can be read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513175144	Will the government follow FH and SF.'s proposal to introduce a minimum level of sickness benefit for parents who have used up their existing sick days with the child and whose children show symptoms and according to the government's guidelines should be kept at home so as to ensure family finances and the guidelines are respected?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513175208	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513175209	Thank you for the question. First of all, I would like to emphasise that the government is working hard to ensure that the corona outbreak harms our society as little as possible. This is true both in terms of reducing the direct negative effects of the spread of infection and the economic uncertainty caused by the whole of the corona health crisis. Together with the Danish Parliament's parties, we are behind aid packages for a three-digit billion amount. Among other things: with the compensation scheme, we expect to ensure that at least 150,000 employees receive full pay while they are repatriated. And in order to make the sick report secure, we have among other things. granted to employers the right to reimbursement from the first day of absence of employees absent as a result of covid-19 infection. We have also, together with all the parties of the Folketing, set aside a reserve of 200 million. kr. for persons who can have a very serious disease course by infection with covid-19 and who therefore cannot meet physically at work. We are in full swing with that work. Having said that, I am of course very sympathetic to the fact that parents may experience the situation that they have used up their sick days with the child. But in Denmark, with the Danish model, we have a long tradition that pay and working conditions are negotiated and established by the social partners. This also applies to the right of absence during children's illness. In addition, many collective agreements typically have other absenteeism rights with or without pay. It can, for example, be done. be care days for young children, other unpaid leave or other forms of flexibility. In addition, many parents of sick children locally at their workplace and in agreement with the employer will be able to make use of flexible time, homework, time off, holidays and unpaid absences. Finally, there are already schemes in place in which parents can receive benefits for the care of sick children in special cases. For example: parents may, after maternity leave, receive benefit in the case of the care of a seriously ill child. Therefore, the government does not have any current plans to introduce a regulated right of absence in connection with children's illness. However, we are constantly considering the need for action to mitigate the consequences of the coronapandemic.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513175414	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513175416	After all, I am very pleased when the Minister lists up the many good aid packages and measures that we have decided together on aid packages to help employees and aid packages to do something good and to provide security for risk groups. But when we propose this, it is because no solution has been found for those who experience their children becoming ill. If a child gets covid-19 or another serious illness, the child risks having to stay home for many days, and if the parents then cannot get free and have exhausted their child's sick days and there is no flexibility on the boss's part, these parents risk losing the job at worst. That is why FH has proposed, as we do in the SF, that you make a sick-care allowance, if nothing else, so while the covid-19 stands on so that the parents can take care of their children and ensure that others do not become infected. Doesn't the government think that's a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513175514	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513175515	I would like to start by saying that we are always listening very carefully to both SF and FH, and that is why, of course, at the end of the answer to the question, I said that, of course, we are constantly considering what needs to be done. But when I stress at the same time that the government does not have any current plans for the proposed, it is of course because we believe that the very many different measures and aid packages, including what is now being agreed we have held the last meeting this morning to a very large extent covering the issue that exists, together with the existing arrangements and opportunities that are in both agreements and elsewhere. In other words, the opportunity we gave with the right to employers' reimbursement from day one for the very broad target group that we set out will also, I believe, to a large extent prove useful in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513175617	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513175618	I do not entirely share the analysis that everyone who has infected children is being helped with the arrangements that have been made, although the other schemes are also good. Take e.g. a single mother who has a child who is infected with covid-19 or another serious illness that requires the child to be at home 10-12 days. The guidelines state that you have to be at home two days after you have stopped showing symptoms. The mother has used up her vacation, and the mother can't just get off work. What is this mother supposed to do when there is no such service or help as you, for example? Do you have Sweden and Norway?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513175653	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513175654	It really is not my intention to say that there is no problem, but the truth is, and what we know about covid-19 is that it is a very, very contagious disease. So if there is a case where a child has been infected with covid-19 and is being clarified in relation to it, then the scheme we already made back in March with the very broad target group where we estimated that we would spend 1.7 billion. kr., and that almost 100,000 Danes should receive sickness benefit, of course based on a medical assessment on the belief and laws that if you are supposed to be infected with covid-19, which many parents might be, if their children are, then you are entitled to sickness benefit on that basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513175746	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513175747	But now that the main organisation of the trade union movement, with which we work closely, says that here is a problem that has not been solved with the current aid packages, both in relation to the covid-19, but also in relation to other diseases that may take a long time, how should we respond to it? For the Minister is right to say that it is the social partners who are negotiating this sort of thing, but since FH says that we need help to find such a solution, would it not be an idea to invite FH in with the employers and say: can we find a solution for these parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513175818	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513175819	Of course, we are very happy to discuss this issue and other issues with both FH, DA and so on. What I have already said to FH is, of course, that if we are to continue working on this issue, which I must be honest and say that we do not have any current plans at this stage, then we must also qualify it by at least being able to point out that this is a problem out in reality. Because there is some of what, in view of the many possibilities and schemes that exist, also sounds like a theoretically based problem, so that there may be cases that we have not yet experienced.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513175908	Thank you. Then there is another question for the Minister for Employment, and that is by Mr Seligman. Bertel Haarder, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513175917	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513175918	The question is: will the Minister guarantee that his signals about further border controls should not be understood in such a way that special measures are taken against Swedish workers commuting to Denmark, according to the fact that the corona virus is less common in Scania than on the Danish side of Øresund?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513175938	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513175940	Thank you for the question. I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Bertel Haarder, when referring to signals about further border controls, refers to the seven initiatives published by the government on 24 April. With the seven initiatives, as we reopen Denmark, we are taking a number of steps to control the working environment and the risk of infection from workers travelling across borders. Following dialogue with the parties of the Folketing and the social partners, the government has chosen a solution which focuses on reducing the risk of spreading infection in the workplace rather than imposing new restrictions on entry. We have done this to ensure that all workers, whether Danish, Swedish or Polish, can feel safe going to work. In concrete terms, the initiatives include: by a task force with the social partners, industry-specific cooperation and targeted supervisory action. On the other hand, it is not part of the initiatives to prevent workers from entering Denmark. Since Denmark closed its borders, work has been a worthy object of recognition for entry, and it continues to be because it is labour that companies need. For the time being, therefore, the government does not intend to introduce a requirement for self-isolation on entry. Having said that, we are, of course, following the development of infection closely, and we are ready to legislate if the situation so requires. However, it is our clear hope that, in close cooperation with the social partners, we can manage both the working environment and the risk of infection from the outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513180113	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513180114	Thank you for your answer. I would like to point out that this is about commuters, which means that it is about people from Skåne and from Schleswig, the old Danish parts of Denmark, where there are many Danes in both places. And for them, the announcement by the Minister for Employment has been an elevated axe which makes them think: are we to fear once again an even worse border control than the one that was introduced a few years ago? Are we supposed to be afraid we're gonna be quarantined now? What is the Minister for Employment planning? And there is only one thing I would like here in the Danish Parliament to have the assurance from the Minister for Employment that there will never be any quarantine or other obstacles to commuters coming from the nearest regions of our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513180216	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513180217	I think I will start by saying that what I, as Minister for Employment and the Government, am planning, as Mr. Bertel Haarder formulates it, but in reality it is the opposite. In other words, the initiatives we have taken all have the opposite wish: to avoid imposing any restrictions on migrant workers commuting in our nearest regions. We do this in concrete terms by strengthening cooperation, creating industry-specific guidelines and also by increasing the presence and control of the Factory Inspectorate in the workplace.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513180258	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513180259	Again, thank you for the answer. However, I am a little concerned about the wording of border-specific guidelines. Is it something that needs to be done on the platforms, on the trains? Do commuters have to quit their jobs in order to avoid getting back into the grip of a Danish border control, which they have tried so many times now? That is why I wish the Minister would be even clearer and that he would also be outside, because it is not about citizens from Stockholm or Frankfurt, it is about our neighbours. Moreover, to a large extent, it is about our fellow countrymen who live south and east of the border.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513180343	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513180344	I think I should start by correcting myself if I choke on the words, because what I said before were industry-specific guidelines. This means that there is a difference between what precautions are being taken in slaughterhouses in relation to reducing the risk of infection and what is being done at the construction sites. Specifically for what Mr. Bertel Haarder asks, I would say, that everything we do here is to avoid any restrictions on entry, and we will do everything we can to ensure that we do not, never, ever, get there at all. Fortunately, neither Skåne nor Schleswig is there for the present nor, I hope, for the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513180425	Thank you. There's one more time. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513180430	Well, thank you again for that assurance and I take the floor to the Minister. And then I would just like to quote his friends in the trade union movement who, on the occasion of the matter, have issued the following call: Nordic co-operation has long intended to facilitate us Norse citizens to move freely between our countries to work, live and study. The Nordic trade union movement has always been a strong advocate of Nordic cooperation and integration. Over the years, therefore, we have criticised the border barriers that have existed and that have made Nordic integration more difficult. Can the Minister approve the wording and make it his own?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513180522	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513180523	I fully agree with every word of what Mr. Bertel Haarder's reading. I see it as a both culturally enriching but also economically enriching thing that Germans can work in Denmark, whether they work just above the border at Danfoss, or they commute longer, as Danes can, just as well as the people who come from Skåne and work in Denmark. However, this is intended to ensure that, at the moment, the spread of infection in the regions flourishes, while at the same time reopening and managing it in Denmark, we will certainly be able to imagine a situation in which we ask people to be tested when they enter Denmark, as well as we have reserved the right to other initiatives. But that is not our wish, and we do not believe and hope that we will get there either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513180616	Thank you. That concludes the question. The next is also for the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513180623	Sir. Nils Sjøberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513180624	Thank you. My question is: when, even before the corona crisis, a large group of over 60-year-olds had particular difficulty in finding employment when they had become unemployed, has the government considered how to help this group of unemployed people in re-starting society and, if so, what initiatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513180702	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513180704	Thank you, sir. Nils Sjøberg for the question. Briefly, there are nearly 50,000 more unemployed today than on 9 March, and there are some fewer newly created jobs on the otherwise dynamic Danish labour market. The difficulty in the situation is clarified by the fact that we have partially suspended the active efforts to reduce physical contact and thus the spread of covid-19 as much as possible. It is clear that this has consequences for many unemployed people. The government and the parties of the Folketing are now gradually and controlled to reopen Denmark as the situation permits. This applies to private jobs, where some have been shut down in whole or in part, and it is my hope that some of these companies will start hiring again. The reopening also includes public Denmark and the job centres, where we are currently considering a digital reopening on the short track. Upskilling and job placement will have a key role to play. The government will strengthen efforts to communicate to the unemployed the concrete jobs that are. It will benefit seniors who may need a helping hand to get back into work. At the same time, the government will use the current crisis to get more unemployed people to upskill back into work, and that is, whatever unemployment group we are talking about. At the same time, I would like to point out that, when I do not present the questioner with specific initiatives targeted at unemployed seniors today, it is because I believe, from the outset, that the challenges can be solved primarily through the active employment policy that the municipalities and the cashiers are responsible for implementing. From the analyses made for the Senior Think Tank, we know, among other things, that seniors over 60 years of age are not more unemployed than other age groups. But when they become unemployed, they find it harder to find their way back into the labour market. We are currently looking at how concrete action can be taken on the recommendations of the Senior Think Tank. One of the Senior Think Tank's sight lines is precisely that unemployed seniors have to get back to work as quickly as other groups of unemployed people. I agree with pursuing that ambition.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513180907	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513180908	I'm glad. The last time I put the question of seniors on the labour market to the Minister for Employment, the Minister said that the Minister and the Government would follow up on the initiatives proposed by the Senior Thinking Tank. I also understand that the Minister is in the process of doing so. The Minister would do so when the collective bargaining is completed. They have been for quite some time now. Many older people want to stay on the labour market for as long as possible if they are in fine physical form, but it is difficult to find a new job. At that time, the Senior Thinking Tank could say that one third of the unemployed aged between 60 and 64 are long-term unemployed compared with the 16 to 54 age group, where one quarter of the long-term unemployed are long-term unemployed. It is also serious that others are unemployed, but the Elders case can further state that 62%. of managers believe that there is less likelihood that they will call a senior for a job interview than they will call others. And the trade union's main organization informs us through Epinion that it requires far more job applications for older people to get a job again. That is why my question is this: is the Minister not concerned that people over the age of 60, that is, seniors, will not be able to enter the labour market again after the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513181029	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513181029-2	I would like to start by saying that I am concerned about all groups that are currently becoming unemployed. I am certainly concerned about the group which Mr. Nils Sjøberg mentions, but most of all, because we know that once seniors end up getting out of the labour market in one way or another, they find it harder to get in. I am also very concerned about the far too large group of young people between the ages of 20 and 29, of whom we can also see a great many have become newcomers since 9 March, because we also know from experience throughout history that when young people become unemployed, there is also a risk that it will bite and lead to all sorts of other problems. So basically we have a major challenge and joint task in getting the economy kick-started as soon as possible so that people can get back to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513181124	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513181125	I am very pleased that the Minister takes the view that we must take care of everyone. Now I am the rapporteur for the elderly, which is why I am specifically asking the question in this context. This leads me to ask: does the Minister believe that the economic crisis will affect the long and positive developments that we have seen with seniors who have entered the labour market? Does the Minister think that this long and positive development that we have had will be affected by the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513181150	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513181151	I think that is difficult to predict, but I think it would be naive to imagine that it will not be affected by it, at least for a shorter period of time. And when I say for a shorter period, of course that is the scenario we are looking into, where the labour market will be affected by the global health crisis, at least for the rest of 2020 and also in a big bit of 2021. So the answer is that, unfortunately, I believe that the positive developments we have been through will be affected by the global health crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513181228	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513181229	This leads me to ask at the end: does the Minister have any idea what the Minister will do in concrete terms to help this age group into the labour market? I am thinking here both of the measures that the Minister spoke about last time we had this matter up, but also quite specifically in this context. Does the Minister have any idea what will be done for the active seniors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513181252	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513181255	In general terms, it still stands out that we should have a follow-up after the collective bargaining negotiations were completed and just to correct Mr. Nils Sjøberg: They have not been finished for so long; they were finished and voted through in the middle of this health crisis we are facing. But I think that two things are crucial, including for seniors. One is that, as soon as possible, we, the Danish Parliament and the government, will have to invest and boost the economy so that new jobs can be created. The second is to ensure that people have the opportunity to be qualified or to make a change of track, which can be extremely relevant to a great many seniors, in order to get back into the labour market as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513181338	Then there is a new question, and that is for the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513181345	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513181347	Thank you, President-in-Office, and especially thank you for the opportunity to ask questions, and the first question is this: since the neighbours of Daka in Randers are experiencing massive smell genes in connection with the incineration of dead animals by the plant, what will the Minister do to put an end to the problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513181406	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513181407	Thank you for the question. I understand very well that there are people who feel bothered by the smell that may arise from a company like Daka. Conditions of odour control are part of the environmental approval for this type of company in Denmark, and the Danish Environmental Protection Agency is closely monitoring compliance with it. Daka treats slaughterhouse waste and self-dead animals from agriculture and is an absolutely necessary undertaking which carries out an important social task. Daka manufactures products that contribute to the good use of otherwise worthless and problematic waste. The company has been doing this for many years, and it is constantly developing new and better products, including biodiesel production. That said, Daka must, of course, comply with their environmental approval and the national requirements for emissions to the air, including for odours. The Danish EPA has stated that smell control is carried out 12 times a year, in addition to supervision of the company. I can inform you that the Board has detected a breach of smell requirements on two occasions in 2018 and by January 2020. I am confident that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency makes the necessary demands on the company, and therefore I see no reason to go further into the specific case.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513181519	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513181520	That is why, fortunately, we still have the opportunity to go into the specific issue and, fortunately, it is not the Minister for the Environment who decides whether we have the opportunity to go a little deeper about it, because this is something that actually concerns a very large number of citizens. In other words, the situation is that if you look at a village like Assentoft, which is actually the second largest town in Randers Municipality, and not least experience the massive influx of residents that is actually there, while there is now also growing ryemalt around the factory, then it is something that really is a big, big problem for real, very many citizens. What has happened is that there has been an increase in the number of complaints. It has also been seen that there are these concrete, we should say breaches of the environmental requirements which have been mentioned, and which the Minister also mentioned, among other things. by January 2020 at the latest. In fact, recently there has also been a problem with the leakage of some contaminated water into the brook area. So all in all, this is something that is tangiblely a problem, not least in view of the fact that we are in the situation that Daka is a unique factory gradually. Similar factories have been closed so that there is indeed a problem because dead animals from Sweden have to be transported to the factory at Randers, and also from all over the country they are transported to Randers, which means that the actual amount of the dead animals is really, really large. Therefore, to go into the specific question now is one of the things that really affects people, of course, especially when there is a big problem with smell when you are off duty. And one of the situations is that the company is allowed to operate weekends, and so far it will automatically end on 20 June 2020, after an 8-year period. That is why the question to the Minister could be: can the Minister not understand that perhaps there will then be a need for an automatic extension of that weekend permit, but for it to run out by 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513181719	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513181720	Thank you. Now, of course, the rapporteur is right in saying that I do not decide what to discuss, and that is not the way it is meant, but it is just to emphasise that we do have rules that need to be respected, and it is my clear expectation that this company should do the same, just as everyone else should. The rapporteur knows very well that we rarely deal with this specific matter here in the Danish Parliament, but help to lay down the rules to which all companies must then comply. And there's just what I'm saying is that in relation to smell, we have some smell limits, and they're fixed professionally, based on the fact that the smell level must be acceptable to most people. This is not, of course, the same as the fact that there can be no challenges and that no one can see that it is very unpleasant, even if it is not a matter of breaking the limits of smell. So that's just what I pointed out in my answer, and thus also that as long as the company meets the requirements set, the Danish Environmental Protection Agency cannot impose more cleaning or other measures in relation to the environmental approval that lies.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513181826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513181826-2	Unfortunately, this did not answer my specific question, because my specific question was that for eight years now we have had a weekend permit to burn dead animals. By increasing problems, people in the local area can sign that, and you can also look at the number of complaints, it should be just a little common sense if you also said: OK, when it automatically runs out, it should not be extended.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513181855	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513181855-2	Fortunately, however, there is also the fact that, in relation to environmental approvals, there is no automatic system. There it is, of course, with the Danish Environmental Protection Agency that they have to relate to the specific company and the specific environmental approval. So I strongly assume that it is also a matter of whether the company meets the requirements, based on the environmental approval and complaints that may be, and in relation to the inquiries that have been made to the Danish Environmental Protection Agency and thus also the control and supervision that lie with the Danish Environmental Protection Agency in order to ensure that you as a company meet the requirements that we make to them by society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513181931	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513181932	But the reason why I mention that Daka is a unique company, because that is why I think it is important that we also go in and ensure that we can have both such a factory that solves a socially important task and that at the same time the thousands of citizens living in the area are not burdened unnecessarily. That is why I am trying to find a balance that I do not quite think I am hearing from the Minister, but it may be that I am hearing the wrong words, hopefully.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513182004	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513182005	Of course there has to be a balancing act, but it is also the case that if we have certain limits of smell, the company must live up to them. That is the challenge here. We have some smell limits, and where there have been violations, the Danish EPA must, of course, go in and point out that this needs to be corrected and that this must be done as soon as possible. After all, it is also in the environmental approval that this particular company has that they really have to be ready to remedy it relatively quickly if there are infringements. So I am very happy to listen to what the rapporteur says, but basically it is a question of whether they, like any other company that can have challenges with smell, meet the requirements that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513182048	Thank you. There is a new question from the same questioner, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, to the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513182054	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513182055	Thank you. The question is this: does the Minister consider that the control of odour genes from the Daka plant in Randers has been satisfactory?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513182101	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513182102	Thank you for the question. I believe that control has been satisfactory. However, I also believe that both Daka and the Danish Environmental Protection Agency should continue to find solutions regarding the previous question, which can help further reduce the amount of odour genes. The Danish EPA receives 12 control measurements of odour from the company's emissions to the environment each year. I can inform you that the Board has detected violations of odour limits on two occasions: in 2018 and by January 2020 at the latest. The measurements shall be carried out by the Research Institute FORCE Technology and shall be unannounced. This control is carried out more often during very warm periods, which may, in experience, be more problematic in relation to the spread of odour. The Danish EPA conducts both notified and unannounced visits or supervision of the company and continuously follows up complaints from neighbours. The Danish Environmental Protection Agency is continuously working with Daka to reduce the number of operating situations that may cause odour nuisances, even if the smell is below the limit of environmental approval.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513182203	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513182205	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. One of the most absurd things I have ever heard in my 15 years as a member of parliament was when I dug down in how and how to actually measure whether there are smell problems or not. The way one has done it so far in Denmark is by having a so-called smell panel, that is, simply some people who sit and get a box with smell in it, and then you smell it and say whether you think it is a problem or not. When I heard about it, I thought it was a April fool, but that's why it is, I think, quite important that we go in and look at what other countries are doing. One of the things I've found out is that there are companies that have simply developed technology, so they don't just have some people with apparently very fine noses that can smell, whether it's a problem or not, in a box that has traveled all the way from Randers to Copenhagen... in itself still absurd... but where you have a biosensor and artificial intelligence. Then you can actually set up some sensors that simply measure it on a professionally valid basis, and it's not some nose that decides whether it's okay or not. Isn't that the way we should be doing it for such a unique company as Daka, the only one of its kind in actually the whole of Denmark where it's such a big and growing problem? Shouldn't we do better than with a Georg Gearless solution like that smell panel, I think, apparently? I just have to admit that this is some of it, I think, perhaps positive, that could come out of it today, namely that the Minister simply said: OK, I also think that common sense and technology should replace the Anders Duck solutions that have been adopted so far. So call me an optimist, but I hope for a positive answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513182348	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513182350	Now I have grown up quite close to a slaughterhouse, so I think the idea that Daka as the only company in Denmark has smell genes is certainly not the case. That will be the case, but that is why there has to be an acceptable level, in relation to what you want to accept in a country like Denmark, so that the company can be there, but that the residents and those who live close to it can also be there. And there are challenges, and of course you have to try to reduce the smells as much as possible, but I also think it is to overrule the whole rule base we have in Denmark, and the limits of smell that we have, if you call it the whole Georg Gearless and Anders Duck, you are welcome to do so, but I think that is a rather awkward approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513182435	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513182436	So I didn't get an answer there either. It is gradually becoming a symptom of that, because I asked specifically whether technology should not be replaced by a smell panel. I think there are very, very few citizens, including myself, who think that it is a valid solution, that you have some so-called good people who simply sit and decide with their sense of smell, whether it is a problem or not, in a box that has been carried from Randers to Copenhagen, when you have new technology that can go in and simply be sensor controlled and can control the smell 24-7. In other words, it can always go in and see if there is a problem or not. In relation to smell problems elsewhere, I would say that yes, but there are no factories like Daka throughout the country. It is a unique company whether the Minister likes it or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513182520	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513182521	But it's not like I don't like it. I just point out that there are a lot of companies in Denmark that can cause smell problems, and that is why it is of course my job and the Danish Parliament to ensure that there is room for both, i.e. that there is room for companies, but of course also for residents. And that also means taking it very seriously when there are inconveniences and complaints, and there must be proper supervision, proper control. So the questioner asks: Is there anything else you can do with latest technology? I am not going to deny that, and I am also seeing that we have an Environmental Protection Agency that would really like to look at new technology and new opportunities. As I understand it, Daka has invested in air-cleaning technology, which is now considered to be the best available technology. That is why, of course, there are limits to what they can do more than that part.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513182609	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513182610	I fully acknowledge that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency is our governing body in this area, but sometimes you also have to show some clear tactics on the political side what kind of path we want the officials to go. It is also sometimes a political decision. And here, where it is such a special, unique company that affects so many thousands of citizens in a local area, I also believe that it is our duty to try to look at what is of good solutions. I am an optimist by nature, and that is why I am pleased with the small opening that came to the end that the Minister would like to open up to look at whether there is new technology or other things we should do, and that is why I will have the opportunity to ask some more specific questions about it later on. So for now, thank you for the answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513182648	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513182649	Thank you. That is really the way we work, that is to say, we are constantly trying to implement the best available technology in an area to reduce the possible nuisances. So when the questioner says, rather polemically, that I am not answering, it is also a question of whether one can disagree or not accepting the basis, for smell limits, which apply not only to Daka, but to companies in general in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513182716	Thank you. There is a new question for the Minister for the Environment, and it is from Mrs Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513182723	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513182728	Thank you. Does the Minister agree that there is a need for a biodiversity law, which, like a climate law, must be a framework law binding and pushing the government in place at all times to work actively and decisively to achieve objectives on how much space should be allocated to wild nature (nature zone) both on land and at sea, and does the Minister agree that it is important that we get a biodiversity law in place before the negotiations on a biodiversity package start, so that the negotiations on a biodiversity package can focus on the concrete initiatives to ensure that the objectives are achieved?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513182807	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513182808	Thank you. We are not only in a climate crisis, but also in a natural crisis, and I agree that there is a need for a significantly strengthened effort for nature in Denmark. Many different efforts are needed if we are to halt the decline in biodiversity and a biodiversity law can be one way to go, and this is also part of the many proposals for a future nature and biodiversity package that the government has received from citizens, organisations, experts, professions and others. However, I have already said that I will not adopt a particular proposal until we have looked at the proposals in the context of the many other proposals for content in a new nature and biodiversity package. I think it would be anticipating the further process of deciding on this before we start all the other proposals in this area. Nature is in decline and many different efforts are needed in the forests, in the sea and in the open country. That is why the government already has the support of, among others. The Enhedslisten provided funds for a number of nature measures, including the laying out of more untouched forest. So I look forward to continued good political cooperation on a significantly strengthened nature effort in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513182924	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513182925	Thank you. After all, as the Minister also says, the natural crisis is roaring, and our lives can probably continue, even if the pearl butterfly or cuddle disappears forever, but we are robbing future generations of the magic that nature also has if we do not make room for nature. This is what biodiversity researchers generally say and have said around the world: Nature lacks space. That is why I am very pleased that we have together produced an understanding paper saying that we need to create a biodiversity package. But the majority in the Danish Parliament does not necessarily last forever, and I think it is really important that we oblige the Danish Parliament to ensure in the future that the nature which may not be measured on a spreadsheet, but which is also so important for future generations, remains in Denmark. That is why I think it is very important for us to have a biodiversity law put in place before we start the negotiations on everything we want for nature, a law like the Climate Act, which we have had great success with, and which sets quantitative targets for what we can do for the climate, so that we can also make such a law for nature, so no matter what new Parliament comes in here, they must at least openly and honestly overturn that law if they want to reduce nature's place again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513183101	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513183102	Thank you. Now it can be said that I have just come from another consultation today on better protection of our section 3 natural areas, and that at least it was no obstacle to the blue block that we had introduced a law that they saw rolled back when they got the government last time. Having said that, however, I fully agree that there is a need for more nature and wilder nature and more coherent land, and that is also where I see that we have fortunately set a new green course together with the majority that is now. What is important, then, is also that we can approach it in different ways, and I am, in fact, very concerned that we are going to talk about what needs to be done, and there is not just one effort in relation to CO2 in the field of nature, as is the case with the climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513183149	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513183150	I fully agree with the Minister that there are many efforts that need to be made. But something fundamental and fundamental for us to get to grips with them is, of course, a broad consensus on what the objective should be. In the Enhedslisten we point out that we think that we should ensure a land area and a sea area of 25%, which is wholehearted to nature. I would like to know where the government really is in relation to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513183223	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513183224	It is clear that it is, of course, some of the things that are very important with our nature and biodiversity package, which, unfortunately, has also been affected by the current situation. We should have had a major nature summit this spring, which has been postponed in the first place, but where there is a need for us now to sit together and look at the more than 350 proposals that have come in widely from a great many in this area, and that we will have to talk about both the nuances, the dilemmas that may be, but that we will of course also get a boost to everything that I actually find the questioner and I very much agree with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513183302	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513183303	Thank you. Yeah, right now we're in a crisis that's very sudden. We couldn't have predicted just six months ago... I think we'd be in a corona crisis like this. But there is, of course, a natural crisis which we have been predicting for many years and which I really believe that this Parliament, with a previous majority, has largely ignored. We can't do that. That is also why I believe that we should have a biodiversity law as a framework that should have 25%. as a measure of how much land we need in the countryside and the sea, wholeheartedly to nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513183336	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513183337	I fully share the questioner's concern that nothing more has happened. Because we have received a report after a report in the field of nature, where we can see that it is going the wrong way, that nature has not improved in the last many years and that we really need to make a political effort here. Fortunately, we have jointly committed ourselves to doing so, and of course I am also very happy to listen to the wishes and ideas of Enhedslisten when we are going to start all this work on a package of nature and biodiversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513183405	Thank you. We're gonna change teams, and then it's mr. Kim Valentin, Left, with a question for the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513183421	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513183424	Thank you, Mr President. Has the Corona crisis and the aid packages for cultural life given rise to a change in the social democracy's view of culture and cultural policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513183441	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513183442	The short answer is no. Culture is still missing the meaning of creating security, creating growth, creating knowledge. It is that man, all human beings, wherever they are, wherever they live, use that knowledge to be the people they are, and that is what culture stands for. There we get ripped out of the frames we otherwise live our lives under to get food on the table and roof over our heads and just get to be free to express who we are, what we think, and what we might just be curious about. This is what caused the Social Democracy to set up the Ministry of Culture and Denmark in 1961 to have its first Minister for Culture. At that time it was actually controversial to say that art and culture should be relevant and accessible to everyone in Denmark. But we all share the longing to express ourselves artistically, regardless of who we are, and that is why I am really proud that today we are fighting over parties between how we can make culture accessible to everyone. Culture is not something that comes to the end. It's something that comes first and last and all the way through. This is also why, from the very beginning of this corona crisis, the government thought culture and society into the general aid packages and then among other things. with the author's party has helped make more focused aid packages, because fortunately cultural life can never be put into a spreadsheet either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513183621	Here you go. Then it's mr. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513183622	Thank you. The Minister does not know how happy I am with that answer, because that is exactly what I think: culture should come first and not last. That is why I also have to remind you of what is happening as mayor. After all, the minister and I both have a background as mayors, and one of the things you experience from some of the most cultural organisations in Denmark, namely the municipalities, is that culture does not come first; unfortunately, it often comes at the end. It is because there is a lot of economy in the municipalities that is under pressure, and that is why you always have to look at where you find the money for the budgets that are there. So what I am trying to talk about here is: could it be imagined that the Minister would present a different view to the municipalities, that is to say, a culture in which one does not have a residual culture, which is something about the fact that all the money we have at the end of the day is spent on culture, rather than putting forward a new policy, where we start by saying that we want a culture which is the basis for all the welfare we have in society? This follows on from what the Minister has said, and so I have to ask: what does the Minister think our cultural industry will be like by 2030?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513183758	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513183759	Because the questioner and I share the same background, I am quite sure that the questioner also knows as well as I how little popular one becomes as minister if one starts to set out guidelines for all 98 municipalities in the country, but I agree that culture is to a large extent borne by the state, the municipalities, the foundations and so on. It must continue to do so, and I hope it will do so by 2030. But otherwise, I hope that we will see the currents, both sports and art and culture dispute to reach even more target groups, so that it can become an opening into the community, into education, into the work of some of those who today have difficulty finding their way into our society. There I see culture as a place where a lot of people are already starting to find the community, the discipline, the courage to plunge into what otherwise seems insurmountable. I hope there will be even more of that by 2030, but otherwise I also think that there are many things I really hope to be like today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513183902	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513183903	Thank you, Minister. In fact, I had the hope that the Minister would have dealt with two other areas in the first question too, but we will save them here in the end. The first area is our cultural exports. We have a really, really good cultural industry, which is really, really good at selling Danish culture around the world. Let me just mention our film, which is being sold all over the world, even if they are Danish. How does the Minister view our cultural industry there globally?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513183941	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513183942	In fact, one of the things I was trying to give an example of was that I think that in culture we find a balance in what can be so difficult in other policy areas, namely how we are really Danish and still curious about the world. I think our cultural life is really, really good at this, not only as a marker of identity, but also in terms of having the growth potential that lies in creativity. I assume that this is also why the author's party and my own party, together with other parties, have shared in making this creative growth plan, which was implemented together with the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Culture, and which I look forward to getting us all together so that culture actually gets through the whole coronatide; so that we can also put it into effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513184025	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513184029	I see the last answer as an indication that the Minister has nevertheless changed a little view of things as a result of the corona, because something has happened. The last question I have is whether the Minister can think of the green area in culture, because it has been a wish of culture from many places: how specifically does the Minister want to think of the green area in culture?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513184057	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513184058	I believe that culture may in fact have been some of the first to advocate the whole green agenda, which is a feature of the political debate in general today. But it is clear that I also find that cultural institutions are making energy renovations and converting their entire business in general to more sustainability, and I find that in connection with cultural events, for example. Ironman last year, trying to think about more sustainability and less disposable packaging. Last but not least, I also think that they are just giving us all the courage to dare to imagine a future in which we can give up something to get something that is more sustainable.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513184142	Thank you. There is a new question for the Minister for Culture, and that is asked by Mr. Stén Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513184153	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513184156	Thank you for that, President. How and when does the Minister intend to involve the parties of the Folketing in the sectoral partnership agreement in the field of culture so that we can jointly address the challenges they face as a result of the covid-19?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513184208	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513184209	Thank you very much. When we stood here last week and talked about the same thing, I promised that as soon as it was all finished and played into the negotiations with the party leaders, the rapporteurs should of course also have the opportunity to see what the players have played in with. Fortunately, it is now clear that the rapporteurs should have sent it out by e-mail here a little hour and a half ago so that we can turn it over at the rapporteur's meeting we have on Friday. However, I would also like to make it clear that these sectoral dialogues are, in fact, primarily the actors themselves who have been involved in how they can comply with the health authorities' guidelines. And there we have been little, what can be said, organizers and also transmitrs of their input in relation to the health authorities and in relation to the Factory Inspectorate, so that both those who work there and those who come there as volunteers, the audience and participants feel secure about these guidelines. However, the questioner should very much have had the first concrete products in his mailbox, and I look forward to discussing it further at the rapporteur's meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513184319	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513184320	The question comes after last week's agreement, to which the Minister refers. I've had the same job as the previous one asking, not in the same municipality, knowing the quality and ownership that can be gained from making compromises and including. And I don't think it's a secret. It also mentions the Minister that we were here last week, and I certainly don't feel very involved as rapporteur in the process here. I haven't seen what's been sent out. However, I have seen that the Ministry has sent out guidelines in the field of culture on how the various areas which are now allowed to open up should act, and that is very good. But I have not been a part of it, just as I have been in the field of children and education, where I have actually been involved. So that's where it's gonna work. And that doesn't make me in a better mood compared to this feeling of involvement. When I look at the background to the Thursday-Friday agreement and look in particular at stages three and four, I find this interesting, because this is where the sectoral partnerships are mentioned. I am just reading about what is called indoor, sports and association life: on the basis of sectoral partnership, it is assessed which activities can be carried out in a health-friendly manner. And I also read the next line: If the development is more favorable than expected and the mathematical models show room for a greater reopening in phase three, one must consider what it is then. Further ahead, it is precisely for each stage to be discussed with the party leaders. And that's why I'm gonna ask you again. I do not think it is particularly engaging, and what does the Minister think about the very agreement that lies here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513184524	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513184525	I can't quite understand what is happening in the area of the Minister for Children and Education, but we coordinate across the government, and there I think it has been clear to everyone that we, together with the parties of the Danish Parliament, should also find out how we are doing this reopening. After all, the Minister for Children and Education was given the challenge of being one of the first to open up with the Minister for Business with the liberal professions. We had some experience with this. And what is at least my opinion is that at party leader level it was agreed on a process which is about the fact that, in relation to the major plans, in relation to the whole of Denmark, it was not negotiated in the individual ministries, but that the individual ministries were involved, so that an overall plan was put in place that coordinated the different areas separately. So I can actually understand the questioner's, what can one say, desire to join, but we have played in, and I look forward to the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513184620	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513184622	I understand from the Minister that I have received an e-mail where I can look into those partnership agreements. I am very much looking forward to discussing this further, and that will be with the Minister and the rapporteurs at the next meeting, I understand. And I'll look forward to it. How can we keep each other up to date on the negotiations that are going to take place about these things? I also think the Minister should say a few words about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513184647	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513184649	It is important for me just to make it clear that these are the conclusions of sectoral dialogues. The negotiations have not taken place between the Ministry of Culture and the actors, nor have they taken place in the Ministry of Culture. There has been a dialogue facilitation on the part of the Ministry of Culture together with the actors in order to be able to play a part in the party leaders' debate. I also have the impression that the agreement is continuous with the party leaders, but of course I will do all I can to have the dialogue with the rapporteurs as quickly as I can on how to interpret these guidelines. But the negotiations are in the hands of the party leaders.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513184722	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513184724	As I understood last week, we get new guidelines on Wednesdays and Thursdays; then you sit down in the party leader group and make these appointments on Thursdays and Fridays. And that does not give much time for us, as members of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, to be able to give our input to it. That is why I still think I am left with a feeling of not being very involved. Will the Minister see to it that we get some guidelines so that we can also dress our party leaders in the discussions that are coming, both in stages three and four and that we get them in time to dress our party leaders too?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513184805	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513184807	Of course, I will do everything I can to dress the rapporteur, but if I do not just say that I can dress the rapporteur completely, then it is because I believe that there is a process going on among the party leaders. And there I must call on the rapporteur also to grab his own party leader and have the internal processes of the author's party, which we in the government at least have with our party, and which I also believe all the parties of the Folketing have, because that is now where they have chosen to anchor it. So in loyalty to the process agreed between the party leaders, I will do all I can to ensure that the rapporteurs get the information as quickly as possible and so that we also have the opportunity to discuss it. But the main discussions, the negotiations, lie with the party leaders. I think that is also the best thing for Denmark, because we are a community that shares this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513184855	Thank you to the questioner and to the Minister. Then there is a question from Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party, to the church minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513184903	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513184905	Does the Minister not think that the bishops should address it if public church priests invite Muslims to preach in a Christian church, as happened in Risskov Church on May 5?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513184918	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513184919	Well, if that was the case, then I agree that it should be addressed. The point to which the questioner refers here is, of course, the radio service which Risskov Church had organized in collaboration with Radio4 on the evening of Monday 4 May to mark the 75th anniversary of Denmark's liberation. And as I understand it, there was a singer with a Muslim background who was invited to sing the fatherland song in Denmark, which the singer made an interpretation of a number of years ago. The singer had then been allowed to say a few words as a presentation for the song, and I knew he was not invited to preach. However, I understand that the bishop of Aarhus Stift, having listened to the service, also considered that in his paper the singer had only a reference to the Koran and thus not a recitation or a reading. The singer told of the value of knowing his neighbor and thus also to be able to understand the importance of lighting candles on 4 May in the evening to celebrate the liberation. However, despite this view that it was not a sermon, the Bishop has stated that he would have liked to have had the opportunity in advance to reverse the matter and the whole arrangement with the priests in Risskov Church, so that the details of the singer's participation could have been agreed and thus avoid signal confusion or misunderstandings. As I understand it, the bishop's position has also been taken into account locally, and that is why I think the bishop has acted in relation to what has happened and what he should do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513185103	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513185106	In relation to what has come out publicly, I do not agree with the Minister, because I do not think it is quite clear that one should not invite a Muslim to initiate or give some kind of sermon in a Christian church. And that's what he had been invited to or he took himself to court, so he got that opportunity. After all, the Constitution states that the Evangelical Lutheran Church is the Danish National Church and is supported as such by the State. This can also be reversed and interpreted in such a way that the state should only support the church if it is also Evangelical Lutheran. And is it the church if it does not hold fast to the Christian message? That is what the bishops are set to manage and provide. In this case, that's not what happened. Well, that's not the only case. In fact, there have been a number of cases where Muslims have been invited to perform. There has been a New Year's service in Haderslev Cathedral, where a Muslim was invited directly to give a sermon, and then there has been this case. There have been others, too. In this case, it may well be that Isam B here herself gets settled and gives a sermon without having been asked to do so, but then one should be wise of harm to make sure that the bishops encourage priests not to do so. For there must of course be no doubt that there is Christian preaching in the Christian churches, even from a political point of view, for then it is that the church suddenly is no longer part of the constitution, that is, if it does not stick to being Evangelical Lutheran.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513185302	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513185303	In fact, I believe that the questioner and I are in complete agreement. That's what I started by answering. The questioner asked if I do not think that the bishops should address it if there is a sermon. And I said, yes, I think they should. They're the ones who have to supervise. In fact, I think the bishop here has done the same, even though it was not a sermon, and so not a sermon that took place, but a comment from a singer who was invited to play this interpretation of "In Denmark I am born." I think it is vitally important that we have this way of overseeing the churches and that it is the bishops who have the close contact.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513185349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513185350	I think that is important too. It is the bishops who have to deal with doctrinal issues. But here I find it unclear whether the Bishop has actually done so. What has come out in public is that he says he would have liked to have been informed. Ah! But what about saying quite clearly that this is not going to happen in the future? It was a mistake that it happened, and it should not happen in the future, because we should not mix Islam with Christianity. We have a Christian ministry in the church, and Islam is something quite different, and we keep it outside the church. I think the bishop should have said so, and I have not heard him say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513185427	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513185428	Now it was not a sermon that was set up or that was going on. I think that is important to say. Yet the Bishop has chosen to intervene and has said to the priests: I must be involved in this in the future. By this I mean that the Bishop has given this attention to what was actually going on and, if anything similar is to be thought about in the future, there must therefore be a closer discussion of exactly how and how. That must be the purpose of supervision by the bishops. I therefore think that the interpretation of the questioner here is just as negative, because both the Bishop's reaction, despite the fact that it was not a sermon, was given my answer and the questioner's position shows precisely that there is agreement that a service in the Danish public church is Christian.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513185518	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513185520	I do not think that it is a sufficiently clear expression that has come from the Bishop. If I sat as a priest in one of the parishes of his pen, I wish there was a clear shepherd's letter about what to do and what not to do. For it is quite clear that such an event runs away when suddenly there is a possibility that a Muslim artist can take the floor and come up with something that looks like a sermon. Of course, it should not be accepted at all in a church. You might be able to make some arrangements outside. It is not for the church to interfere with that. But in the church, I think it should be very clear, and it doesn't after this event.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513185604	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513185605	Well then, I am sure that the Bishop will also follow what is happening now, and I certainly hope that everyone will both see and hear what the questioner and I are saying, precisely that services taking place in the Danish National Church are Christians. Having said that, I still believe that practical supervision and assessment must be based on a dialogue between local priests and bishops, who are the ones who oversee theological supervision. This is the way we ensure that there is also the local freedom to assess how to do so, but with the underlying motive, that everything must, of course, support Christian preaching and religion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513185648	Thank you. The next question is to the church minister by Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513185653	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513185654	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that there seems to have been administered in a way in the coronatide, where funerals from Christian churches have been severely limited in the number of participants also in the open air while Muslim funerals have been able to have a very large number of participants, as was shown by the television pictures from Yahya Hassan's funeral?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513185717	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513185717-2	The questioner and I also had a course last week about these pictures, which I had also seen and responded to, because there were many people gathered, even without keeping the distance that has been imposed on us all. Following on from our Question-answer session last week, we were followed up on this, and we also had a dialogue at the rapporteur's meeting, where it was clear that these are the same guidelines, just as I expressed last week for the Christian churches and for Muslims, also in relation to funerals and funerals that are going on outside. What I have asked a great deal about has just been how we have communicated this equality, that is to say that this possibility was there and it has been communicated, but I have said that the guidelines had to be corrected and have also been confirmed here today that the guidelines have been corrected at www.coronasmitte.dk, so that it is now even clearer that this possibility is there for the church. Of course, I have also asked whether there have been many questions about this in the continuous dialogue, which has been both among the corona unit of the people's church, but also between the actors of the church and the ministry, and there is the feedback to me that it has not been what people have been most concerned about. In the Christian church we do not have the same tradition as the Muslims for having funerals outside; there we are inside the church, there we are in there, where we receive the happy message, but also come and help and support each other when life is hard and ending. So what has mainly been focused on has just been the opportunity to bring as many as possible to the funerals that you wanted took place inside the church room. So there has simply not been this wish. What has then been of questions to us has been to the funeral sequence, i.e. the possibility that after the Christian funeral ritual inside the church you could get more people to come outside. Nor is there any restriction on the burial sequence, and it has been made clear to several churches of the people, and I also know that more people have taken advantage of it. There have also been public reactions to this, i.e. how it could be done, but it is because even in this serious time we have wanted to allow as many as possible to say goodbye properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513185939	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513185941	But as many as possible have not been able to say goodbye properly, and there are incredibly many who are really, really sorry and feel badly treated. Why is it that for urn reduction in open air in Esbjerg and in Aarhus there can only be 10 participants? Why is it that at the fortification in the cemetery there may be only 10 people, sometimes 20 people, but very rarely have been allowed to be the number that the family wanted? It is because the Ministry of Justice has interpreted a Christian burial as something that takes place in the church and continues out into the cemetery. Then there must be 22 people in the church, there must be 22 people in the cemetery, and that is totally unreasonable, because half of it takes place in the open air. One might well have said: Yes, there must be 22 in the church, but out in the cemetery you must be as many as you want as long as you keep the right distance. This has not been said, and this has not been provided for, and even though questions have actually been asked, in many cases the funeral attendees have been very harsh and said that they must not be there sometimes people have been thrown out behind the church fence. It's an unreasonable treatment, and it came to the surface when the photos of Yahya Hassan's funeral went out on TV. People were really angry, and I understand that because during the same period they have not been able to attend their loved ones' funerals. I therefore think that someone owes a very great apology to the relatives who are left wounded because they could not say goodbye to their loved ones as they would have wished. I think that is very, very wrong, and hopefully there is a very short time left in the corona crisis, but it is so important to change this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513190139	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513190141	But I can only say that I fully agree with the questioner. It was also important to me, as soon as I found out that this was unclear and we could communicate more clearly about it, so to get it out, and that is also why I said in my first reply that I am glad that it has now been corrected everywhere. However, I would just like to repeat that I certainly do not have any information to say that many people have wanted this. Perhaps I can understand that too, because if we think back, the vast majority of the time when Denmark has been subject to these very special guidelines has been a very cold time, when it would really be both a breach of tradition, but perhaps also unpleasant to have these great gatherings outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513190232	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513190233	Why is it that the guidelines of the Ministry of Justice state that a Christian funeral is regarded as one event in the church and outside the church while a walking funeral procession is out in the open, and there you must have as many participants as you want? Could it be that the Ministry of Justice has thought: Walking funeral processions with Muslims are hard to dance with, and we get a terrible trouble if we come and say that they must be fewer and perhaps also keep distance and such things, while the ordinary Danes are easy to control, so there we need not be afraid to impose a lot of restrictions to reduce the infection?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513190313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513190314	I can clearly reject that without being very close, but of course I have played a very active part in the government's deliberations on precisely funerals, because that is one of the things that you are only allowed to do once for the deceased. Therefore, you really have to be careful to do it right, and therefore there have also been the most lenient rules about funerals. I have also noted that for example. The bishops themselves put up with this, that one could postpone the urn cut so as to have an opportunity to gather as many as possible inside the church. When there is a difference and thus a free number in funeral processions, while, when you stand still, it is the same as inside the church, I think, it is really to have that parallelity in what it is of a ceremony that is going on while the funeral procession itself is something that is moving. This is the tradition we have in the Christian church, and it is another tradition that applies, for example. Muslims.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513190412	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513190414	When the words, a walking funeral procession, appear in guidelines, you know what it is all about. That is why it is very likely that we have thought in advance: there is something that we can limit and something that we cannot limit. But what will the church minister say to the people who have had their loved ones buried during this period and have thus been subjected to this totally, quite unreasonable restriction and discrimination, also to urn reductions? Does the Minister not think that they should have a vertical excuse for over-managing completely unfairly in relation to limiting their participation in funerals in cemeteries in the open air?
ParlaMint-DK_20200513190457	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513190459	I have no reason to say that there has been over-managed. On the contrary, I believe that both priests and undertakers and all those involved in funerals have done their best to make it as good an experience as it may be, it is never • yet to ensure that there is room for the grief that such an event requires, and also that you could have space in different ways for as many as possible. That is also what my dialogue with the Ministry of Justice has been carried by, that is, that both the police and the Ministry of Justice have fully agreed that this should be regulated as lightly as possible, because it is only done once for the deceased. Whether you're a Christian or a Muslim, we're all people first and last.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513190546	Thank you. The question is closed. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200513190558	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday, 14 May 2020, at 2 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
