ParlaMint-DK_20200110100013	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Morten Messerschmidt (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 69 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of a Constitutional Council). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20200110100035	The debate is open. Sir. Jep Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110100101	Thank you for that, President. The draft law we are discussing here is, of course, a postponement of the revision of the logging rules, and this is the ninth time that this revision has been put forward to be postponed. After all, this is because there is an earlier judgment in the EU system, in other words the Tele2 judgment, which overruled the Danish rules, and subsequent decisions are pending which we are waiting for to be concluded. Among other things: Denmark and a number of other EU countries have made comments on the legal status of logging, which is why we are waiting for the cases and the treatment expected to be completed within a year so that we can define the national rules. This is how the technique of this is, and as I said, this is the ninth time that we are going to postpone this review. There is also something more fundamental at stake here, which may certainly also have some comments in the course of the legislative process. This is basically about the tools we want the police and the authorities to have to fight crime and to what extent they should involve using digital information. There are many different views on this. It has to be said that the tools involved include: being able to track phones or be able to keep track of what is going on in criminal networks is absolutely crucial for the police's ability to investigate and prevent crime, including the really serious crime. And there we have the view, which we also share with the government at the time, that being able to log some of these data and access them with a court order in quite relevant cases is a very, very important instrument that helps to prevent and solve and also combat serious crime. That is why it makes sense for us to wait for the discussion or argument that is going on at EU level before finally deciding how we can adapt the Danish rules, so that they are of course in line with and comply with the legislation. That is why, of course, the Social Democrats support the Social Democratic Government in this bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110100337	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110100341	Thank you. After all, it has been some time since the judgment we are talking about, which has overruled the Danish rules, has fallen. And according to the case-law of the European Court of Justice, when a judgment has been delivered, Member States must take the measures necessary to comply with it as soon as possible. And then I want to hear from the rapporteur whether it is the rapporteur's view that Denmark has done everything possible to bring the logging rules into line with the fundamental rights enshrined in the Charter of the European Union as quickly as possible in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110100416	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110100418	Yes, I think Denmark has behaved very sensibly in this matter and done the necessary treatment in relation to handling this together with other countries in the EU system. And now we are waiting for the cases pending to be settled, probably here in May of this year, and then we can take the next step.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110100440	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110100441	When the verdict fell, the Ministry of Justice said at that time that it was thought that it had 12 months to adjust to it, and now it has been several years. When does the rapporteur think that the deadline, like the deadline, is for us in Denmark to have done so as soon as possible in order to fulfil the fundamental rights of logging and the Charter?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110100506	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110100507	Yeah, but that's where I think we're gonna skip some terms. So, that is such an all other equal consideration that what now, if the Tele2 judgment had been there and nothing had happened afterwards, but there is and that means that a situation arises in which one then argues for a legal situation which is uniform and which, of course, will also affect the Danish rules. And that's why I guess that other equal consideration isn't that simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110100536	Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110100540	Thank you, Madam President, and thank the rapporteur. I noted that the rapporteur mentioned that Denmark has made a speech and, as I understand it, that speech is secret. Can the rapporteur explain why this speech is confidential, in other words secret, and not publicly available?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110100607	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110100609	No, I can't. But there are some who know the normal practice in those cases better than I do. And I don't think there's anything mysterious about it. This has also been the case in relation to the government of that time. I am confident that both the then government and the current government, together with the authorities, will deal with this completely by the book.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110100633	Here you go, sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110100635	Thank you. When a verdict was handed down in the Tele2 case in 2017, the then minister said that the Supreme Court has ruled that there are now 12 months to change the Danish logging, and that has not happened. In relation to the previous issue, which was also about the same thing, I would just like to clarify: does the rapporteur think that it is optimal and good enough when the Supreme Court's decision gave the government 12 months to change the Danish logging rules and that has still not happened?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110100721	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110100722	With all due respect, it is quite identical to the question which Mr. Kristian Hegaard asked a few moments ago and to which I replied. So I really think I have answered, so I guess the other equal consideration is not entirely reasonable because new cases have arisen and therefore new arguments have arisen. This is basically about what tools we think our police should have access to. Now, not so long ago, right up to Christmas, there was a big case in which the police prevented a terrorist network, which I could see that both the Radical Left and the Alternative were out to praise. At the same time, it is argued that we should cut the police's chances of solving crime. And there we are basically just, I think, two different places.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110100804	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur. It's Mrs. Inger Løjberg, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110100821	Thank you. The proposal, as others have also mentioned, is now a bit of a revenant, which we have discussed sometimes in this Chamber. This time again, it is a question of postponing the revision of the Danish logging rules to the parliamentary year 2020-21. The position of the Left has not changed since the Folketing last decided to postpone the work. Logging information is essential as an investigative tool for the police in connection with a great many of the most serious crimes. And it is also the case in a very large number of legal cases that this is a very serious proof, for example. in connection with crimes such as murder, rape and the like very, very serious crime. It would simply be really, really bad if the police and prosecutors were to be restricted in the use of logging information, which is unfortunately the consequence of the judgment in the Tele2 case. We are therefore still awaiting the Commission's guidelines as a result of both the Tele2 judgment and, in addition, the decisions of the European Court of Justice in a number of current logging cases. So the Left supports the proposal, but of course we hope that the Minister of Justice, together with the other countries, will find a solution as soon as possible so that we can preserve this very, very important tool for the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110101004	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110101008	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish Liberal Party what liberally there is in supporting this massive mass surveillance which is, of course, at issue. The European Court of Justice said in the Tele2 case that the reason why this is not in line with the Charter of Fundamental Rights is that it provides for a general and undifferentiated storage of all traffic data and location data. So it is a lot of innocent people who have done nothing and who are not going to do anything that is being watched. Instead, this logging, as in other countries, could be targeted at those who might get a warrant, or where you could see there might be some who might do something evil. Why is it not a good idea to target it to those whom it actually makes sense to log, and not to the hundreds of thousands of innocent Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110101103	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110101103-2	This is a difficult discussion for many, and it is also far into the Confederal Group of the European United Left. But I have to say that when you see how important a part of the evidence it is, it weighs very, very heavy for me. And when you think of the person who has been raped or has been subjected to a serious crime, I have to say that it weighs very, very heavily on me that the police can use this tool to solve this type of crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110101143	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110101145	I do not think we disagree that it is important for the police to solve crimes and, in particular, violence and rape. However, does the rapporteur not agree that when other countries in the European Union appear to have succeeded in finding a solution to crimes, then Denmark will probably succeed well? Would it not also be successful for Denmark, like other countries, to bring its legislation into line with EU law and the fundamental rights enshrined in the Charter of the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110101218	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110101219	I can't stand here today judging that. But I have to say that I think it sounds a little hollow that one day the police are clapping and rightly commending the police and are very enthusiastic about the effectiveness of the police, for example. the investigation of imminent terrorist attacks and then the next day will not provide the police with the tools necessary for it. I have to say, I think blades are so hollow. You have to stand by it, and then you have to say that the day when it is proven that the police have actually benefited greatly from these rules: I was really against the police having to have those tools. That's what I hear today, sir. Kristian Hegaard thinks.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110101305	Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110101308	Thank you to the rapporteur. This is not a debate about whether or not we should abolish logging. This is a debate on whether or not we should evaluate the legislation. If the rapporteur points out very clearly that it is a difficult issue for the Left and for the rapporteur himself, a question of freedom, rights and in relation to police tools, could one at least not agree that we are just evaluating it and seeing how important this tool is, what effect it has and how it is in relation to rights? So this is not a question of whether you want to log or not, this is just a question of transparency, openness and evaluation. So could the Left not support such an evaluation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110101408	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110101409	I must honestly say that I think the rapporteur can sit down in any courtroom for any week and then you will see how important logging is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110101421	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110101423	I don't think I quite got the answer to my question. I try again: this is not about whether you are in favour of logging or whether you want to abolish logging. Today we are here where, if we vote in favour of the proposal, then the ninth time we delay the evaluation. So, since, as the rapporteur himself points out, this is a difficult issue, i.e. rights in terms of tools, monitoring in relation to police tools, would it not be democratically correct and transparent, and would it not be an escape with openness if we were to say yes to evaluating it? That is not the same as wanting to abolish it. But can the Left and the rapporteur agree that we agree to evaluate the rules and logging?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110101511	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110101512	For the rapporteur, the rapporteur has just been able to do himself the service of sitting in a courtroom for any week, and the rapporteur will be able to do that evaluation himself quickly. Because this is an important tool, it is often one of the most important tools for the police. Let me just remind you once again that the days when you praise the police and applaud the police for their excellent work, so just remember that it is also because of the tools that the police have got from here, and it is no use playing both horses. I have to say that I find it deeply disappointing that in this way we do not stand by the days when it applies, i.e. when we have to allocate resources and tools to the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110101606	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110101609	Is Mrs Inger Løjberg's speech here in today's debate to be understood as meaning that the Danish Liberal Party is actually in favour of a general and undefined logging of all citizens in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110101628	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110101629	No, I started by saying that it is also a difficult issue, far into the Confederal Group of the European United Left. On the one hand, it is of course about the fact that we all do not want to be looked over our shoulders in a figurative sense, but on the other hand we also want the police to have the tools needed to solve serious crimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110101651	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110101653	But what is happening today is a general and undefined logging of all citizens in Denmark, and that is what has become known illegally. So 1: Does the support of the Left for the bill today really reflect the general support for such mass monitoring? 2: Can it really be true that the Left supports it, despite the fact that in two instances it has become known illegally by the European Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110101723	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110101724	At any rate, I can only note that Mr. Rune Lund will be able to see very quickly how important logging is as a tool for the police to solve crimes. And I must say, I have very, very much respect for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110101737	No one else has asked for the floor. We move on to the next rapporteur. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110101745	Thank you. We are dealing here with L 87, which, as has also been said in the debate, is about postponing the revision of the logging rules. I am not fully aware of whether this is the eighth, ninth or tenth time, but it is at least many times that it has been postponed this time for the year 2020-21, which is the next session. In short, it is a question of telecommunications companies having to store data for up to one year, and if you have to have access to it, what the police typically get, then you have to have a warrant. I just think it is important to get involved in the debate, because otherwise it will be such a debate about whether you are for or against mass surveillance. But it is not just mass surveillance where all the authorities can keep track of what the Danes are doing. The data will certainly be logged if you have sent a text message to another number or have called another number, but it requires a court order, so it is wrapped in some legal certainty, so I really think it is quite reasonable. Because it is just an important tool for investigation, and we in the Danish People's Party would like to hold on to that. In 2016, this verdict came from the European Union, the Tele2 judgment, where the EU overruled the Swedish rules. But there is also the fact that new cases are now running. Sixteen countries have asked the European Court of Justice to reconsider the matter, and I really think it is quite fine that we should not now intervene and try to look at how to do it differently. I think it is quite fine, as it is today, so why not wait as the government is proposing? I really think that makes sense. So, from the point of view of the Danish People's Party, we can support this bill, both because we fully support the logging that is taking place today and because we fear that, if we start to change it now, before a decision is taken on it in the various European countries, we will actually have the police's ability to solve matters with these tools, and we are not in favour of that. We think it is quite reasonable to have the rules today, so that is why we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110101937	Thank you. There are no comments. We move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110101957	Thank you. I don't know about you guys, but I'm getting some associations with that bike song that you might know, with the prospect of this ninth postponement of revision of the logging rules. Easier rewritten it could sound like this: there was one, there were two, there were three, there were four not on a bicycle ride, there were five, there were six, there were seven, there were eight, and now it has become the ninth turn to postpone revision of the logging rules. It is probably not very wrong to say that we have come a little off course; not even the steepest mountain stage has taken longer, and I hope that 21 stages will not be needed, as we know from the Tour de France. Because it is high time we brought our legislation on logging into line with applicable law. In the Tele2 case of the European Court of Justice, it was concluded that the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union must be interpreted as precluding national legislation which, in order to combat crime, provides for a general and non-differentiated storage of all traffic data and location data. This is precisely the general and undifferentiated approach that we have in Denmark, and it is generally the case that, according to the case law of the European Court of Justice, the Member States must take measures to comply with a judgment as soon as possible, and we have not done so in Denmark. It refers to the fact that some new judgments will be awaited because it may be that practices change. It cannot therefore be a good reason to continue to do something illegal, that the rules may sometime in the future change or there will be a new interpretation of them. This is like thinking as a citizen: I am paying a little less tax this year, because it may be that the tax will be reduced next year. It may also be that you drive a little faster on the motorway, because it may be that the speed limits may change next year. I think we can all see that wouldn't really last. So, although there may be doubts about future rules, at least there is no doubt as to how the current rules should be understood, and that is what we must deal with, and not hypothetical, future interpretations. What has clearly been stated is that it is contrary to the Charter of Fundamental Rights. There is therefore illegal surveillance of the whole population for the fourth consecutive year. The argument is also that the rules will not be changed immediately, because it will impose unnecessary burdens on the telecommunications industry. But the biggest burden must be to force the industry into illegal logging by doing nothing. Surely this is the greatest burden and a really good argument for bringing the rules into line with the law. So, while we wait, should we not bring our legislation back on course? Why should the waiting period be used to continue the clearly illegal practice we have in Denmark? And instead of restricting the personal freedom of hundreds of thousands of innocent Danes for so-called security reasons, we could, of course, safeguard the rule of law, the protection of citizens' personal data and the right of citizens to privacy, and of fundamental human rights and legal certainty. We could get some much more targeted rules that allowed us instead to log on to the potentially guilty of crimes and keep innocent Danes free. That must be the least intrusive thing in order to achieve the objective that we are all very concerned about, namely the fight against crime. I am not blind that logging can probably also be an excellent investigative tool and it is in many contexts. However, the many EU countries that can comply with the rules still catch criminals, so our skilled Danish police will probably do the same, even if we change the logging rules. So the Radical Left cannot support the bill, and we hope that we will not continue the song another time. So now it must be time to review the logging rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110102419	Thank you. There are no comments, so we go further, and that is Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110102445	Thank you. It's my fourth day in Parliament, and then I'm gonna have to get into the logging rules of pyha. But today I have chosen to lean on Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt's words and make her speech because she could not be here today. Now we are standing here again, even though the Tele2 judgment is very clear and says that broad, undefined mass surveillance of all citizens of this country is contrary to fundamental liberal civil rights and human rights. However, it is now being proposed to postpone the revision of the logging rules, which makes this possible. It may well be that the government would like to wait to revise the logging rules until a judgment is passed again, but that does not change the fact that the rules should have been revised for many delays since. A democratic state governed by the rule of law requires a balance to be struck between providing the authorities with effective tools and protecting citizens' rights to privacy. That balance, as I have said, has not been established by the logging rules we have now, and neither does the European Court of Justice. We want a revision of the logging rules and therefore cannot support a postponement, so the SF does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110102601	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110102614	Mass monitoring of citizens is illegal. The Court of Justice of the European Union established this before Christmas 2016 in a judgment of principle, the so-called Tele2 judgment, and the European Court of Justice of the European Union spelled it out at the time. For the Court of Justice already in 2014 issued a verdict that made mass surveillance the kind of surveillance that is currently taking place in Denmark through logging • illegal. All the way through, whatever government has been in power, these judgments have been ignored, and now we have the ninth postponement. We have a situation where the mass surveillance to which the state exposes all citizens in Denmark is illegal, and we now again have a Minister of Justice who does not choose to draw the logical conclusion, namely to abolish the current illegal mass surveillance. We in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party actually believe that this is a democratic scandal. We had expected, even now that we have a new government, that there would be a clear announcement that all plans for further action in relation to illegal mass surveillance would be dropped. We believe that it is deeply problematic on the part of the Enhedslisten that in a democratic society we have such a massive record of who we communicate with, when we do it and how long we do it. We find it unpleasant and unacceptable that in a rule of law we should put up with constantly being monitored without being suspected of having done anything criminal, and I should like to admit that it is a rather complex sense of joy for me and the Enhedslisten that it is precisely the European Court of Justice that we are supposed to have to knock Denmark into place in order to ensure respect for fundamental democratic principles. But that doesn't change the fact that the verdict is right. Instead of the illegal mass surveillance that is taking place right now, we must limit surveillance to people who are suspected of committing crime. We must carry out targeted monitoring and we must have a system that can be set up quickly when such monitoring is to be initiated, and the existing rules for a judge to approve the monitoring must, of course, continue. In this way, we can have both a teleloging, a mast logging and other forms of logging as technology opportunities expand, but this must be done on the basis of the principles that it is a targeted logging, a targeted monitoring, and not a mass surveillance of innocent citizens. In Denmark, as I said, we have mass surveillance of all citizens. You are registered via a telephone mast every time you call or send a text message or a mms, and the monitoring exists via the so-called login notice. It's pretty simple what to do when you get a sentence against you for the second time, and when you've also known that this sentence was already coming for many years. The small grip we should be making is simply to cancel the logging notice that exists because it is the one that makes us carry out illegal mass surveillance. Instead, we should work on setting up a new system. However, the situation we have, where we have illegal mass surveillance and where a majority in the Folketing simply accepts the state of affairs without annulling the illegal mass surveillance that is taking place, is simply a democratic scandal and therefore the Enhedslisten cannot support this bill. We need action now. We need to put the legislation in order so that no illegal acts are committed by the state. We need legislation to ensure that there is no illegal mass monitoring of citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110102956	Thank you. There are no comments to the rapporteur. So we move on to Mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110103002	Thank you. The bill is a re-submission of a bill that we tabled before the elections, but which had to be withdrawn because of the elections. Logging rules in Denmark oblige telecommunications providers to record and store information on voice and Internet traffic for investigation and prosecution purposes. It may be problematic for law-abiding citizens that they are being monitored, but we believe that it is a very important tool for the police and intelligence services to use in relation to major crimes. We have inner enemies among us, who are the fight against terror, gangs and so on, and therefore logging is important. It should also be stressed that this information cannot just be used by a curious police officer. A court order must be issued to the police or intelligence services and then the penalty for the offence must be at least six years old. So it is, when it is very, very relevant that it is being used. We believe it is sensible to postpone the revision of the logging rules so that we can adapt them to EU decisions. Two cases are currently pending before the European Court of Justice on the French and Belgian logging rules, and the European Commission has also been out to say that they will provide some guidance on how Member States should lay down the logging rules, and this is based on the judgment of 2016. Therefore, it does not make sense to review the law now until answers are received both from the Commission, but also from the European Court of Justice, and the latter is expected to come in May. So it doesn't make sense to do anything about it until after May this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110103202	Thank you. There is one comment from Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110103203	Thank you. It was because the rapporteur said this about the problem of this logging by law-abiding citizens, and I am in complete agreement with that. That's why I just wanted to know if it couldn't be an opening for us to target logging so that it doesn't hurt law-abiding citizens. Because that's what other EU countries are doing, that's why they're targeting it, so that this general and undifferentiated logging doesn't happen. So, since the rapporteur has said in the past that this is a problem with law-abiding citizens, could the rapporteur not be positive about it? Should we not, then, exert all our energies towards those who are not law-abiding and target the logging against them?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110103243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110103244	Or maybe it ends in that direction. However, I believe that we should wait for the European Court of Justice and the Commission's guidelines so that we can have uniform rules in the various EU countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110103258	Anything else? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110103301	Thank you. That wasn't exactly the answer I was hoping for. But then I would like to ask something else, namely whether the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party could at least agree that this is the last time we see this postponement. We cannot continue to postpone it one more time, and now it must be the last time. We're not going up on this round number, no. 10. That would be a huge pity. Now it's the last time, and we don't have to put it off anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110103325	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110103326	I can't promise you that. You're gonna have to ask the Attorney General. It is not known with the European Union whether they will bring the things they have promised. However, when the Commission comes up with some guidelines when the Court of Justice makes its decision, I think that it should be looked at not before.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110103346	Thank you. It's a quiet Friday, but we shouldn't charge each other directly. Here you go, sir. Sikandar Siddique, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110103401	Thank you for the floor, President. We are today faced with the Government's desire to postpone the evaluation of logging for the ninth time. Every time Parliament has been criticized, every time we are criticized by organisations from all over the world, and each time the Institute for Human Rights asks us to carry out the evaluation. Civil rights have been violated, democracy has been paused. The European Court of Justice has on several occasions ruled that logging is contrary to human rights. This was not a surprise, because the court in Germany and the Netherlands had already done the same, and Norway, Ireland, Sweden and the United Kingdom have already done so. Everyone around us has stopped the illegal logging, but in Denmark we keep going. Apparently, surveillance is equal to freedom. Since last time, we've seen a huge telecommunications scandal. For years the police misread mast data, the public lacked real knowledge of the lack of precision of the telecommunications data, and crucial information on this was not even handed over to courts and defence lawyers in time. I am therefore surprised that parties in the Folketing can refuse to evaluate that scheme. What are we afraid of? The police's own account of the attack on the Krudtønde and the Copenhagen Synagogue says in black and white that teledata was useless. So what is the reason for this slowness? The Minister will postpone the evaluation and amendment of the logging because two pending cases are pending before the European Court of Justice. But it is not a future thing: the Advocate-General will present his proposal for a decision on Wednesday. In other words, the judgment will probably come before we decide to wait for it. And what can we expect from this judgment? Does the Minister believe that the European Court of Justice will break with all lawyers other than the Minister himself and suddenly say: Hey, we were wrong, of course you must disregard the right to privacy, the right to family life, the right to a fair trial and the right to free thought and expression? Of course, the European Court of Justice does not. They will confirm that illegal logging is still illegal. So we from the alternative are clearly voting against only for the reason that a vote in favour of the proposal means that we are looking at quite fundamental freedoms. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110103710	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110103720	Instead of having this very fundamental and also relevant discussion about monitoring in relation to the freedom of citizens, I think that we should deal with what is here and that a majority in the Danish Parliament has decided that in this area the European Union should have an influence on our policy. If this has been decided, it is quite crazy to go ahead with a revision of the rules before you have responded to the EU judgments that are pending, especially when we know that they are very likely to fall within not very long. So, of course, new citizens fully support the fact that when you have to look at these rules again, you have to do so on a fully enlightened basis, so that we do not start something now that still needs to be changed within six months.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110103809	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110103818	Thank you for the floor. A great deal has already been said about this bill, which all revolves around the issue of revising the rules in force. It has been exposed many times and we think it has been exposed many times. So we cannot support the proposal here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110103842	Thank you for that, and then there are no more rapporteurs, but then it is the Minister for Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110103852	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the debate. In fact, with the draft law, what has also been said on a number of occasions I believe that all the rapporteurs have gradually said that the revision of the current logging rules should be postponed to the parliamentary year 2020-2021. I would like to start by saying that we must adapt our logging rules in accordance with EU law. This includes, among other things: The Court of Justice of the European Union has consistently held that, in the present However, it is also important to bear in mind that this is a complex matter and access to logged information is crucial to the possibilities of investigating and prosecuting crime. In fact, contrary to what has been stated, the Tele2 judgment leaves considerable doubts about interpretation in relation to how the national rules on logging can be adapted to comply with Union law. And since 2017, there have been ongoing discussions within the EU on how Member States can adapt their rules to comply with the Tele2 judgment. The European Commission has indicated that the Commission will draw up common guidelines in this area. That work is not finished yet. And then, what has also been mentioned, there are also cases pending before the European Court of Justice at the moment, which could affect our ability to adapt our logging rules. Denmark has submitted observations to the European Court of Justice together with no less than 16 other Member States in which the government has invited the European Court of Justice to reconsider some of the opinions delivered by the European Court of Justice in the Tele2 judgment. The European Court of Justice is expected to deliver judgments in the cases around May of this year, and not, as was stated earlier here from the platform, in a moment. It is the government's view that it is important that the new logging rules be drawn up on a fully informed basis and that the scope of the Tele2 judgment is determined jointly with the other EU countries and the European Commission. The common process is important to ensure that the new rules are kept within the framework of the European Union. Finally, I should also like to point out that it has been raised that it follows from the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union that a Member State must comply with an EU judgment as soon as possible. When it is then, depends on the circumstances of the particular case. The Ministry of Justice has considered, in relation to the present situation and in relation to the Tele2 judgment, that it is possible to postpone the submission of the bill on the revision of the Danish logging rules. This is partly because, as I said at the outset, this is a complex matter, and it is also because the postponement of the review will make it possible to take into account the future judgments of the European Court of Justice and the future guidelines of the European Commission in this area. It is therefore the Government's view that the revision of the Danish logging rules should be postponed until the parliamentary year 2020-2021. With those comments, I would like to thank you for the floor and, of course, I look forward to further consideration here in the Folketing and am very much at your disposal to answer questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110104228	There are, for the time being, a few comments or questions in this Chamber. Sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110104234	Thank you. In 2017, a little after this Tele2 judgment came, the Ministry of Justice said that you probably had 12 months to sort this out. And then I would like to know whether the Minister is of the opinion that Denmark has done everything we could as quickly as possible in order to take measures to ensure that we comply with what is happening in this judgment, to bring us within the fundamental rights of the Charter that we should not be exposed to general and undifferentiated storage of all traffic data and location data?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110104316	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110104317	It was precisely the same question that was put to the Socialist legal rapporteur who answered the question quite correctly. So I'm relying on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110104324	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110104325	I would really like the Minister to elaborate a little more than that. It is of course interesting whether the Minister is of the opinion that in recent years every effort has been made to revise the law in order to comply with the law in force. And I assume that the Minister believes that we are bound by the EU Charter. So I think it would be appropriate for the Minister to give it a few more words on the way, whether he thinks that everything possible has been done in order to take measures to comply with this judgment as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110104404	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110104407	Same question, same answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110104411	Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110104414	It has to be said that the Minister uses such brevity in replying, but then I will try to ask another question to which we can hopefully get an answer. The problem with this illegal logging and also what we've seen in the telecommunications scandal is that defense attorneys don't have the same access to this information and to the same data that the police and the prosecutor have. Does the Minister think that's fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110104459	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110104500	Now, listen to me: there are others who have been guilty of this misunderstanding today, namely by saying: could you not just do it in such a way that you could subsequently do logging or only do logging against those you thought might commit a crime? Well, you can't know who it is that's planning to commit a crime. If you could, you could start by only keeping an eye on them. Therefore, the logging rules are designed so that you log, and if you see, for example. Aware that a crime has been committed here, that a break-in has been committed here, that what I know is theft, we can use the logging rules to see, for example, whether the suspect's mobile phone was in the hands of the suspect near the crime scene, for example. You will not be able to retrieve such information if you say that you are not logging and that you have to do it afterwards, because then that information has disappeared. And that's why it's an illusion to say: we're just pointing the logging at the suspects.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110104609	Here you go, sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110104610	Thank you to the Minister for answering the question. I don't agree. So I would like to ask another question: does the Minister have the impression that the countries we usually compare with Sweden, Norway, Germany, Great Britain and other countries have stopped this practice? Does that impress the Minister? And when they can, why can't we?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110104650	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110104651	What really impresses me most is that not only Denmark, but that 16 other EU countries have said to the European Court of Justice: the legal position that you laid down is extremely problematic in terms of combating crime; you will have to reconsider your practices for the Tele2 judgment. That is what impresses me.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110104720	Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110104723	Does the Minister believe that this bill, which will continue illegal mass surveillance of the citizens of Denmark, strengthens freedoms in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110104738	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110104741	I have to start by arresting the fact that what's going on is illegal. What's going on is not illegal. It's completely in accordance with the Danish rules. And the Danish rules must, of course, be in accordance with EU law. That is what we are working on to find out: what are the rules that we have to bring the Danish rules into line with if they had to be brought into line with others? So the premise for the question is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110104808	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110104809	After all, the Tele2 judgment says that there can be no general and undifferentiated monitoring of citizens. That is what is happening, and that is why what is happening is illegal. But let me ask the following question: does the Minister believe that this bill strengthens freedom in Denmark and/or strengthens freedom in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110104829	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110104830	I have the basic position, which I have also expressed, that some of the things that provide security in Denmark are that we are able to combat crime. One of the things that gives us freedom in Denmark is that we are able to fight crime, that we can effectively make sure that we feel safe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110104858	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110104901	I have to say that I think it is an insolent power arrogance and power that the Minister of Justice stands and expresses, among other things. to representatives of the supporting parties, including Mr. Kristian Hegaard. It is, of course, the Minister's right to expel it may not be so wise. That's another case. However, I would like to ask whether the Minister for Justice does not share the view that what distinguishes liberal democracy from other forms of government that we do not normally want to compare with is that the objective does not justify the means.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110104947	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110104948	Yes. By the way, I do not agree that this is arrogant. I think it is on the brink of arrogance to ask the same question that has been properly answered in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110105001	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110105002	I now spend a few hours in the chair, and it is quite normal that the Minister should be asked a question which has perhaps been put to the Socialist rapporteur in order to get the government's answer to it. I think we often experience that. And I think it would suit the Minister to answer the questions that are being asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110105027	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110105031	But so did I. I referred to the fact that I agree with what had been said before that the answer is therefore the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110105038	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110105040	It is, after all, a dull atmosphere that is spreading from the government's support parties and against the Minister. We can't have that on such a party day. Down in the second part of the Walking Hall you celebrate the reunion with South Jutland, and then there is such a grave atmosphere in here. That's not gonna work, is it, Minister? I would therefore like to draw attention to some of the positive things that the Minister has said, namely that one can stand up to the European Court of Justice. That's what I heard in my one ear, and that's what's attached to me. On previous occasions in this Chamber we have discussed in detail other judgments of the European Court of Justice, which interfere with Danish rules on unemployment benefits, child benefit rules, foreign policy and labour relations and something like that. There, however, the Minister has had a rather more rigid approach to the cases in which one could oppose the European Court of Justice. That is why I would just like to ask here, too, to give the Minister the opportunity to give some positive messages: is there any hope that he will take the same will to fight in other areas against the judges in Luxembourg?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110105141	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110105145	It is, of course, a debate that we have had occasion to have on a number of occasions, and we have also found in common that it is quite common for Denmark to make representations in relation to the handling of cases before the European Court of Justice, as we have done in the two current cases, which I hope will lead to a review of the understanding that the European Court of Justice first came out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110105215	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110105217	Thank you for the floor. Can the Minister confirm that in recent large cases that have been in Denmark, the potential terrorist case in December, the bombings in Copenhagen and the gang conflicts have been an essential tool in clearing those cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110105242	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110105242-2	Without going into the specific cases, one can say that this is what is unfortunately being overruled by some parties here in Parliament that the use of telecommunications information is a fundamental tool for combating crime. And if you say that we can just give up logging, you take a very, very important tool from the police to fight crime. The only people who really want to pop the flag if they succeed will be those who raise the flags at the bikers' castles and elsewhere around the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110105324	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110105325	Thank you for that answer. That is also what I expected to hear from the Minister. This means, of course, that the freedom and security of the Danes are to some extent limited by the fact that one is being monitored and guaranteed by the fact that we can solve crimes more easily with the logging than we can without. This leads to question number two: if it were to follow on from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's question should turn out that the EU judgment falls, so that our logging rules are weakened to a degree so that we can no longer solve crimes at the level that the Minister considers appropriate, the Minister will insist that it is the European Union that should have the last word. Or will the Minister guarantee the Danes security and security with logging rules, which means that we can solve crimes at a decent and decent level?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110105425	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110105426	In fact, I have reason to believe that when 16 EU countries make comments, as has happened, and with the debate that has taken place within the European Union on the Court of Justice's interpretation of the rules on logging, the Court will review its view of the guidelines.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110105449	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110105505	The debate is open, and first it is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110105531	Thank you again for the floor, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for having tabled this motion for a resolution which proposes to make the valdemarsdag on 15 June Denmark's official national day and therefore flag day. Let me just start, for the sake of good order, by pointing out that today's Waldenmars Day is already flag day, and the question is then alone, whether the day should also be elevated to national day. It is not clear from the proposal what the proposers mean by a national day or how it might be celebrated. It appears something highly and actually written in a good way, I think from the proposal that national day should be used for, as it says: marking everything that is Denmark, and everything that binds us together as a people as a nation. But the practical implications are not shown, that is, what it means, other than the lyrics, if you make a national day. Let's try to take a step back, because there are 19 days of flags beyond Waldemar's Day. They count among other things. Constitutional Day, Liberation Day and the flag day for Denmark's broadcast. On the official days of the flag, special occasions are marked for state authorities batting Dannebrog as a split flag. On the Greenlandic and Faroese flag days, the Greenlandic flag is the flag of the Faroese flag. On the valdemarsdag, which is the case here, the battle in Estonia is flaunted in 1219, when Dannebrog descended from the sky after the legend as a sign for the Danish forces under the leadership of Valdemar Victory. The day is then shared and fortunately you can do so with the selection of the reunion with South Jutland in 1920, which is attached to the same date. On the day of the Constitution we celebrate Denmark's first free constitution from 1849 and thus the establishment of democracy. On the day of Denmark's liberation we celebrate that Denmark was liberated from the German occupying power on 5 May 1945. And since 2011 we have the 5 September flag in honour of Denmark's broadcast. In addition, we fly on public holidays and on the royal birthdays. The current flag days are equivalent in Denmark. So there is not one who has been particularly elevated to, for example. to be national day. This means that it is up to the individual to choose for himself whether a particular flag day should be given special importance. In some way I do have sympathy for the idea of introducing a national day where we celebrate Denmark, but as I said at the outset, one has to ask oneself what the consequence is of celebrating such a day. If the raising of the valdemarsdag to national day is only meant to give the day a new name, that is to say, to be called national day, because we are already batting, and so nothing has changed in this way, then it becomes a little meaningless. If it is to make sense to elevate one day to national day, then it must be possible to mark it in some way. It could, for example, be done. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done. of 5 September. That raises the question which will naturally be the extension of it: should it then be a national day off, as is the case, for example, in the United Kingdom. in the other Nordic countries? If you want to, it's not free, to say the least. My immediate assessment is that the introduction of an extra day off will lead to a loss of what is equivalent to what about 10,000 full-time workers carry out of work in one year. This represents a decline in the overall level of prosperity in society by 11 billion. kr. and a deterioration in public finances by 2.5 billion. kr. a year. By comparison, the demographic trend is expected to burden public finances by 2.5 to 3 billion. kr. So just to give the proportions, it is roughly the amount of money we should choose to invest in it, and that would mean if we had to do it in such a way that that money had to be taken from somewhere else, for example. from the hospitals or from the police or from other areas. You can also turn it around and say that if you now had 2.5 billion. kr. available, what would they be used for? It may be that I am biased here, but I would much rather use them for us to be better able to catch criminals and fight crime, for example. I'm sure there are other parties, too, who would probably have a lot of other good ideas about what you'd rather spend 2.5 billion. kr. We need to see this, and that is how we need to see it, namely whether this is the right way of giving priority to the money. In addition to that, it can be said that if we now elevate the Waldenmars Day to national day, it is likely that that very day will steal the attention from some of the other days of the flag. It seems to me that it is not immediately obvious why it should be more important to celebrate the day when Dannebrog reportedly fell from the sky, rather than, for example, the day of the establishment of democracy or liberation from the occupying power. In that light, I do not think we should introduce a national day. Instead, let us hold on, I think, in the tradition that does not elevate one of the flag days to national day, but leaves it to each of us to choose a particular flag day and to attach particular importance to it or more. Then we can spend the money on responsible welfare, on initiatives to strengthen security and security in the many important areas, which, of course, helps to make Denmark a good place to live. In view of this, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution, and in those words I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for their attention.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110110255	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110110259	Let me see if I can talk to the Minister here anyway. We can start by shooting away all that stuff with days off. After all, the Minister spent a lot of time on that, and 11 billion. kr. is a lot of money, but it has never been thought that this would be a proposal to make Valdemar's Day a day off. And as to whether it should steal attention, it is certainly not something that has happened by making 5 September the day of the veterans. I don't remember seeing fewer people in the memory grove for that reason. So let us also put that argument aside. The Minister of Justice then raises the relevant question: what is it then? Is it a clean shell, or should there actually be any content in it? Of course there must be content. I think the idea of a ceremony that the official Denmark is holding events around the country, marking the flag as the one that links us together is a good idea. It could also be in primary, secondary, etc., where we discuss what it really is to be Danish. Because being Danish is so much more than what divides purely politically. In other words, one can easily be Danish, regardless of which political party one votes for, and that is why the Constitutional Day, which has gradually become political, is no longer a Danish day in the sense that it is the day of democracy, as the Minister says. But we need a day when we pay tribute to Denmark, which is everyone's, across the differences. Could that perhaps appease the Minister a little?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110110411	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110110412	In fact, as I said, I think that the description of what some considerations might be used to say that it might be a good idea to have a national day is correct. In fact, I also think that the description is correct, so that whatever we mean and what we are talking about, etc., there is a core of being Danish that is worth protecting. It is, moreover, a core that we have discussed frequently in the Danish Parliament: what special Danish values are and that could then be discussed. But I still do not have the time, and of course I totally accept that it should not be a day off to get an understanding of what the content is, i.e. how national day should be translated. I think that with the description that is given, it leans out of being something that is most symbolic.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110110511	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110110512	As I heard the Minister before, he too has strong views on being Danish, on the flag, on history, on language, on literature, so that we could not jointly define the content if what I have said here is not enough. And if we hand it over to each other, it may be that we can meet on it in a report or through another parliamentary instrument, so that we can get this process going anyway. As I hear the Minister it may of course be, he is trapped between his heart and his political spin doctor • then he is actually in his love for the country close to saying: Yes, it might be a good idea. But it may be that there are some considerations that are moving in the other direction. Is it really read?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110110556	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110110558	My political spin doctor lives in my heart too. As I said at the outset, I do not think the proposal as it stands is useful. However, as I also said, I think that the idea of finding the right way to celebrate being Danish is a relevant consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110110626	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110110630	Thank you for the floor. The minister says that what remains is almost symbolic. But isn't that exactly what our flag is: the symbol of what binds us together? Isn't that all that Mr. Mr Morten Messerschmidt, who is not just saying that it is not to belittle it, is the political content and not only our freedoms, which are historically relatively new, but what we are uniting under? Is that not what we are talking about when we go to football matches or sports events, which may have been something that we have had to be ashamed of for some time? Wasn't it worth saying that the flag and what the flag symbolises for us Danes and probably also symbolises for people in other countries under their flags... is in itself worth celebrating, even though the flag is a symbol?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110110730	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110110731	I'm sorry if I have expressed myself imprecisely. What I meant, symbolically, was, if the proposal were merely to say that, in addition to calling what is already a day celebrated, Waldenmarsdag, we also call it National Day. Then it became almost symbolic or a blow to the air whether the questioner will. I certainly do not think that being Danish is just symbolic. In fact, I think there is reason to be proud of what we are and can do; the history we stand on; those we are; the country we have created; what we have done; what the generations before us have accomplished; the heritage that we can hopefully pass on to those who are coming after us. All this seems to me to be of great, great value. So that is certainly not what was symbolic. What was my point was that we need to find out if you want to move this way... what's going to be in the celebration.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110110837	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110110838	After we have introduced the flag day, which is the Day of Defence, I personally find that we have had a greater debate on, a better understanding of, a widespread recognition of what defence is and does for our freedom and security. When I support this proposal and we support it, it is in the hope that marking Waldemarsdag as a special Danish holiday or national day will also give a greater focus on what it means to be Danish, not just our freedoms, not only politically, but everything that binds us together, and that you may not have to sit and make an overview or an agenda of when you adopt it, but which grows up in the tradition that hopefully will be strengthened and which already exists. There are many of us who celebrate valdemar's Day in advance. But hopefully it will be strengthened if it becomes a national holiday.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110110940	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110110941	In other words, a few words are being put in here, to which we need to pay attention when national holiday is being said. I am not sure that the holiday was really intended, at least not in the mind free day. Or was that it? Because then we're back in: how much is it then? What kind of social resources are we throwing into it? But if we put it aside, it is really a question of finding out what the practicalities are and what the complications are. When it was decided to make 5 September a flag day for Denmark's broadcast, it was chosen on 5 September because it was a neutral day, that is, a day that was not linked up to anything and that was not already. Without having to get lost in the details, the Danish People's Party, as I remember, proposed on 29 August because it was the day when it broke with the cooperation policy with Germany in 1943. The Left proposed on 31 August because that was where the corvette Olfert Fischer was sent to the Gulf in 1990.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110111059	That's it? Yeah. Let's move on. There are no further comments to the Minister. Then it's mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110111112	Thank you. And thank you to the Danish People's Party and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt for this excellent opportunity to discuss the national. I have now read the motion for a resolution and the comments, and that is practically poetic. You sense this National Conservative wave sweeping over the parliament with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's entry and where this is another proposal from the Danish People's Party. And there is reason to celebrate the national. Now the Minister has mentioned the need to turn the valdemarsag into a flag day, as long as it is already. But I love Dannebrog, and I would also like to congratulate the former chairman of the Danish Parliament on the fact that we now also have Dannebrog hanging in the hall here. In this way, I connect it with newly mown grass on a spring day and my neighbour's flagpole, where there is a temple hanging, and so all the days of the flag are marked with great, great satisfaction. Then it is said in the explanatory statement, and I think there is reason to read it when it is so well worded: "We Danes deserve a day when we can gather around this little spot of God's green earth, which is ours." And then we've already had a debate about what that means. One understands that we should certainly not have a day off, but one can then mark it. In the explanatory statement, there is also a bit about what it is that the day that I think most Danes would see as a national assembly day, namely the Constitution Day on 5 June, then cannot be national day. And it is a question of politics. Now I also understand from the rapporteur's question that we are all voting differently, and then constitutional day cannot be elevated to national day. Well, I'd like to challenge that a little bit. It is not, after all, a question of the fact that we are voting differently; the day of the constitution is precisely about the fact that we are voting through the introduction of democracy, which is based on the fact that we still have a tradition with the monarchy, but we also have a celebration of what took place on 5 June. What is a little special about the 5th of June is that it is really at that time in 1849 that Dannebrog also becomes a popular symbol. It will be something that the population will take on board, also in the context of the three-year war of 1848-1850 and the June Basic Law will be this popular concept. And then there were subsequent political forces working to reduce democracy's introduction and rights, among other things. with the Constitution of 1866, and thus also with the aim of removing focus from 5 June. However, during that time, there were strong forces in the Social Democracy and the Left and elsewhere, who unceasingly held to celebrate on 5 June to honour in the June Basic Law, the People's Rule and the People's Republic. The amendment of the Basic Law in 1915 was also signed and entered into force on 5 June and also with the 1953 Basic Law. In this way, constitutional day becomes a symbol of popular celebration and, above all, of democracy. Should Constitution Day be raised to National Day? Not necessarily. It is known to all Danes; it is celebrated and is popular, democratic and so on. And then I think the wonderful thing is that we also have a number of other flag days. However, the proposers also stress the need for this national day, because over the years there have been several flag days, no later than 5 September, as the Minister also mentioned. And this creates uncertainty as to when we celebrate Denmark. I do not feel that way, as I said at the outset, because I think that there is reason to celebrate Denmark and the national every day, and I am delighted to have the privilege of entering the Parliamentary Chamber and looking up against Dannebrog. And that is how I hope these different flag days will help create and contribute to the national identity, just as it is when the men's national team in handball can hopefully win the European Championship and when it can go well for the Danish national football team for the European Championship etc., etc. So there are plenty of such national occasions where we gather as people and where we celebrate the national. So we, as a party, are not in favour of introducing a proper national day, and although it will probably disappoint our former Prime Minister Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, who has a birthday on the valdemar Day and without me knowing it.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20200110111602	There's a comment from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110111606	Thank you, both for the fine and kind words about the proposal and also for the fine review of constitutional history. After all, this gives rise to a reflection on how closely Denmark and democracy are historically linked, because one could almost understand it in the rapporteur's view that it is one by one the same. But there was also a Denmark before 1849. There were even tone-setting literates that actively advocated against democracy • Grundtvig, Kierkegaard etc. At least I think they would disagree very much. So being Danish is to love your flag, that is to feel as part of the historical tradition that the minister mentions back from 1219, but which we can, with Saxo Grammaticus, lead all the way back to prehistoric times. It is not politics, nor is it democracy. On the contrary, it has to be said that constitutional day is becoming more and more a divisive day when we politicians stand and beat each other in the head with divergent good arguments. And that is precisely why we need to pull the national day away from 5 June and then make it the day of the flag that embraces us all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110111721	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110111723	Well, I think that's exciting. Then we could not use the Constitution Day to beat each other and instead of celebrating the national • I think that is a good point. But if we stay in the historical: what happens in 1849 is that we gather the kingdom also with the duchys, and it is quite true that there are lots of parts of the Danish realm that at that time do not necessarily feel like Danish in such a national sense as we would talk about it today. That is also why, when you look at the battle of 1864, and we lose one third of the kingdom and about half the population, there is the process that ran up through the decades of the late 1800s, and which helped to create the foundation for the Danish. And that is why I may disagree a little with the fact that the day of the Constitution is all about politics, that is to say, because it is also about the collection of the national one in a historical perspective.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110111816	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110111818	Let us not argue about constitutional law: it is Monrad's signature on the constitution of the whole state that causes Prussia to intervene as a breach of the London agreements. But the point here is that you can be Danish no matter what you vote, and you can also be Danish, even if you do not vote at all. For the Danish is to belong as in a family where there is open-minded access. You don't sit around the Easter table and say, "It's you too, my uncle you voted like that, so I don't want to be with you." No, you're linked by an inheritance, by a duty, by a responsibility... much deeper than what we celebrate the Constitution Day. Doesn't it deserve your hand on your heart, sir? Jeppe Bruus, isn't it an independent celebration?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110111905	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110111906	That certainly deserves some opportunity to discuss it, which is why I would also like to thank and acknowledge once again for giving us this opportunity to discuss it. And I fully agree that Danish is more than democracy; it is also our history, it is that we are a monarchy. But I think the point is misunderstood when you talk about voting differently. It seems to me that being a Danish nation state is a fundamental core of the Danish identity, the fact that we are a democratic state, that we are based on rights which are also enshrined in the introduction of the constitution and which, of course, are based on the end of the absolute monarchy of the 1660s, that is, the assembly of the nation state. And the fact that, in fact, we are also part of what we want to see as a monarchy from a historical perspective.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110111954	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so it is Mrs Inger Løjberg, the Left, as the next rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110112010	Thank you. And thank you for the opportunity to discuss this, which I really think is very, very commendable. Some days are just more beautiful other days, and some days can be luminously clear, even if it rains. We also have such days in Denmark, and that is among other things. Our flag days. One of the flag days is Constitution Day, and without having to prolong the debate more than necessary, I would say that I actually believe that the Constitution Day of many is seen as a kind of national day, the Constitution Day, where we celebrate the very foundations of the free society, which Denmark is a society and a foundation laid by generations before us, a foundation that means that we are a nation of free peoples. In Denmark we have freedom of religion: you can believe exactly the god you want to believe, you can worship him all you want, you just can't force others to conform to it. Here we have freedom of speech: you can say and write what you think you can draw what you can, and you can even get it in the paper if you are skilled enough. And here women and men, girls and boys are equally worthless, because we are equals. We celebrate all this on constitutional day. Basic law is a day of celebration for democracy, for Danish society, which must remind us all that freedom is not so given. The proposal here is to make valdemarsdag on 15 June an official national day, and we in the Left do not think that should be done. We think we can celebrate the valdemar's Day, and I think we should do the same and celebrate it as a flag day, and we think we can do that without making it a national day. That is not to say that we should not make valdemarsdag a festive day, because we must do so. But the Left is voting against this proposal, and we are doing so with the reasons I have just given.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110112237	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110112239	I must admit that, with all due respect to the rapporteur, I think she is providing an excellent defence of why this proposal should be adopted. Because if you hear the rapporteur, all Denmark and all Denmark are only the constitution and freedoms. I agree with the praise for freedom of expression, but then one could ask oneself the question: Does that mean that Christian VIII was not Danish? I think most people will argue against that. In relation to gender equality: Well was Christian X not Danish? Well, I think that maybe especially this year with the reunion we could probably agree that he was. But the two kings, magnificent kings in the history of Denmark, were not in favour of freedom of expression and gender equality, as Mrs Inger Løbberg and I are. That is why Mrs Inger Løjberg is making the short line of comparing the Denmark we have today with Denmark as the historical legacy to which we, as a people or as a tribe, belong if we are to quote the former British ambassador to Denmark: this very country to which we are entitled. Then I must not just ask whether Mrs Inger Løjberg cannot well raise her eyes a little beyond the time she lives in, and then see Denmark as a historical community, not just a contemporary one.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110112344	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110112345	Yeah, I actually think I do, too. I actually think that Mr. Jeppe Bruus' rather long introduction a moment ago gives the answer to a lot of what Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is asking about this. As I said, I think valdemarsdag is a wonderful day, I think it is a festive day, and we could also make it even more festive. But you can do that without making it a national day.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110112420	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110112421	I will try to refrain from the temptation to discuss constitutional history with both Mr. Jeppe Bruus and Mrs Inger Løjberg and then just ask for some concrete ideas. What can we do together to make valdemarsdag one, I think, the rapporteur said a festive day, perhaps also a slightly more solemn, a little more central day in the minds of most Danes. Most Danes know when it's constitutional day, but I don't really think that if you go out and ask the average primary school student, you will find that she will know when there will be celebration of Dannebrog. So if we can shake hands with each other and come up with some concrete ideas on how to promote that process, then I still think we have come some way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110112456	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110112458	The true Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110112508	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110112524	Thank you. I was very pleased when I read this motion for a resolution. For how wonderful it is that there is an interest in increasing efforts for culture, history and literature. The basic interest we share completely and can subscribe to, and I am quite sure that everyone in this room thinks that Dannebrog is the most beautiful flag, just see how beautiful it hangs over in the corner. Then, of course, for some of us, the EU flag will come just after that. But the only thing about celebrating literature and history and other types of culture one day a year is perhaps too little, because Danish culture deserves a much more prominent role. We are pleased that the re-priority contribution in the field of culture has been cancelled after the authors of the motion for a resolution have spared the culture that they wish to celebrate in this motion for a resolution, but we must go further than that. That is why the Radical Left has this summer, among other things. proposed two annual free book distributions to the Danes of Danish literature, so that it becomes more part of the public conversation. We also hope that the authors of the motion for a resolution will agree with this interest in literature expressed in the motion for a resolution. I am sorry that the authors of the motion for a resolution look less positively at the day of the Constitution and call it a political day, because it is certainly to pay tribute to our history, as the motion for a resolution suggests, to have a whole day dedicated to the history of our democracy, which was largely created on the day of the Constitution. And I know that there are many good traditions around the local communities exactly the day of the constitution, and it is wonderful to experience, and that is not something we should talk down to. The question then is whether this solves anything, because if it is a problem that constitutional day is too political, then it is also political to go in and set a day as a national day. I guess it's political too, you could argue for it. And if it is to be Waldenmarsdag, where we were on a war expedition through a crusade, we might find it possible to discuss whether it is an appropriate location. On the other hand, it is also on 15 June that it is Michael Laudrup's birthday that it could, of course, speak in favour of it. But there should be no doubt that we all love our country, our literature, our history and our culture and language, but not only once a year. We do that every day. And since we do not believe that it can be reduced to one day, we think that instead of giving each art its own day that each could fill out. So we in the Radical Left welcome the intentions, but we want to go further than that and we cannot therefore support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110112830	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110112835	The fact that you love Denmark every day and it is nice to have confirmation when the rapporteur is radical does not conflict with the fact that you choose one particular day and say: it is then today that we all mark it. What if you imagined that you could make special project and topic weeks in the public schools that were just around: what is Danishness in a historical and in a contemporary context? How do we see it in literature? How do we see it in the other art? etc. I simply do not understand how the argument put forward by Mr von der Vring is correct. Kristian Hegaard shows, can lead to the conclusion that you have to vote against this proposal. In other words, apart from these rather funny remarks about first the former prime minister and now some footballer, I still think there are many good arguments for taking the 15th of June, which is the day that actually for 800 years it was last year that has united the Danes around our country, our flag, the national symbol, and say that this is the day that we unite our focus on and our love for the country and do so together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110112935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110112936	I think that when a school class chooses to have a given project, i.e. at what time, I have complete confidence that the local schools will manage. If you think it is better to have about Denmark in September than in February, I think we should very much leave it up to the individual teacher and the individual class what they just feel about. So I don't think that should be what matters. What the Radical Left is just saying is: we can see the intentions of strengthening culture, but why only do it one day? Why not have a day for the literature, a day for the language, a third day for the dance, a fourth day for the film? Because there is so much that makes Denmark Denmark Denmark, and why should we only mark it for one day when we can do it for several more days?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110113022	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110113023	Well, I guess this is just revealing that sir... Kristian Hegaard and his other fellow party members do not use the 365 possibilities he then believes are available to mark Denmark, because we do. But that is precisely why there is just as much reason to have a day when they say: it is so national day. Sir. Kristian Hegaard could look towards Norway, Sweden, Greenland, Åland, Iceland and other Nordic countries, where you have a national day. It doesn't make them any less Swedish, Norwegian, Greenlandic, Faroese, or whatever it may be, on the 364 other days.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110113056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110113057	I can just say what I said before: that being Danish and feeling Danish, I kind of do every day. Today we also mark Denmark by talking about it again, and when I got up this morning, I felt very Danish and enjoyed it, and I just don't think we can reduce that to a single day. But there's really very great about Denmark. In fact, there are only amazing things about Denmark and our green spot here on our Earth, as I think it is described in the motivation. So we are not going to reduce that to just one day.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110113131	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110113151	Thank you. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt could not be here today, but I have promised to read her speech. I would like to start by saying that we in the SF do not feel the need for a national day. The motion for a resolution argues among other things. That is why a national day is necessary, because our constitutional day is too political. I guess it's a matter of taste. Because I do not believe that the day of the Constitution is too political. Basic law Day is precisely celebrating something that makes Denmark Denmark our democracy and our fundamental values. So we already have one day to celebrate Denmark, even if it is not a national day. For this reason, the SF does not support the motion for a resolution. I can say, however, that I have a little final comment that is my own. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt calls for concrete ideas on what to do if this does not become a reality, and I can say that he can look at 1 May. That's how we celebrate a flag. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110113255	There is just one brief comment from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110113303	I will address the more critical questions to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, who cannot be here today. However, as the rapporteur speaks of 1 May, I would just like to point out that when the 700th anniversary of Dannebrog was celebrated, Stauning was in fact one of the brightest advocates of the red flag being carried with Dannebrog in the reverse. In fact, I recall the front page of the Social Democrat on 5 June 1920, which calls for the national dimension to be embraced as a socialist. So I am delighted with the historical battles that Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen is beating here, and I would just like to encourage her to go up in the Library of the Danish Parliament and to enrich herself in the newspapers of just 100 years ago and see how Stauning has, after all, to be a certain helmsman of the Socialist Party she represents, so she just advocated that Dannebrog should have a special position next to the red flag.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110113353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110113355	Thank you. I have to go home and read that, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. And then I appeal to you to continue the debate with Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110113404	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110113426	In Denmark we have Constitution Day. It is a day that I think many people see as a kind of national day. It is a day when we celebrate democracy and our fundamental values. That is where we celebrate what I and many, I believe, perceive as being Danishism: it is democracy, it is welfare, it is equality, it is equality, it is green conversion, it is international solidarity, it is creating a society for the many and not a society that is just for the few. A number of points have been raised in the debate here today. Valdemarsdag is already flag day. It is somewhat unclear what the practical implications should be about something being appointed as a flag day. So, on this basis and with those comments, I can say that the Enhedslisten cannot support this proposal. Moreover, I should like to welcome the alternative and say that the alternative cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110113536	Thank you, and there is a brief comment. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110113540	All I have to do is ask: Rune Lund apparently connects the Danish very, very close to something that sounds like socialism.He talks about equality and international solidarity and a number of other things which are undoubtedly found in the Communist textbooks, and what has developed from this, is one not Danish if one is not a socialist? You're not Danish if you don't share mr. Rune Lund's view of what is international solidarity? You're not Danish if you don't share mr. Rune Lund's view of democracy? You're not Danish if you don't share mr. Rune Lund's view of equality? I think that will enrich the debate. I don't agree with much of it, sir. Rune Lund has dedicated her life to working for, and I'd still like to hear Mr. Rune Lund says I shouldn't be Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110113631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110113633	Me and Enhedslisten have the very open approach that those who feel Danish are Danish. And I think that is actually a more open and inclusive approach than that of the Danish People's Party, which may also be a little expressed in the way the comments are made. It says here that Denmark is about the historical community into which we are born. Well, there are plenty of people in this country who are also citizens and who are not born into it, but who are still Danish and who feel Danish. So maybe I could ask mr. Morten Messerschmidt: Are they not also Danish, or should the comments be understood as meaning that the national day that the Danish People's Party imagines should not be a day for them, but only for those who are born into the historical community?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110113726	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110113727	Indeed, I very much agree that this is about the feeling, and we have it from the people of Grundtvig from 1848, I think. But then I'd like to ask if Mr. Rune Lund then also agrees with the second half of the poem, namely: The rest themselves as dragon dolls, even from the people exclude, deny themselves citizenship, shine themselves out of line. Is Mr. Rune Lund also agree with the passage of Grundtvig?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110113747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110113748	Actually, I didn't hear everything that was said. But my view is, and Enhedslisten's view is that those who feel Danish are Danish. And I also think it must be acknowledged that Danishism has changed throughout history. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt referred earlier in the debate to the fact that we had kings in the past, we had nobility, we were not in favour of women's equality. So it must also be acknowledged that the Danishness that exists today is also a showdown of the power of the nobility, of feudalism, of the king's power. It is a Danishness based on the building of a welfare society, a society for the benefit of the many and not the few. It is the Danishness that we have today and which is, of course, a different Danishness from that which existed several hundred years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110113834	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110113847	As a Conservative, I always get happy when someone wants to pay tribute to our Denmark. I would therefore like to acknowledge the good thoughts of Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt and Dansk Folkeparti. In the Conservative People's Party, we are very concerned about safeguarding Danish traditions. The tradition in Denmark is that we have not had a definite national day. Basic law day is the closest we'll get to one of those. On the day of the Constitution we celebrate Denmark, we celebrate our democracy, we celebrate our constitution, which helps to create the society we have today. I believe that only a few countries in the world • Denmark and the United Kingdom today do not have what is called a national day, and the closest we will get is, as I have said, constitutional day. I have tried to read out why we do not really have a national day. According to experts, this has to do with several causes. Among other things: Denmark as a nation has never been subject to other countries for long periods. We have been obsessed with the Germans for a shorter period, but not for longer periods. That is why we do not have a day of independence that we can make our national day, such as in the United States. Another reason is that in addition to South Jutland's reunion with the rest of Denmark in 1920 Denmark has not had a great reunification as in Germany. And a third reason is that the development of Danish society has been more an evolution than a revolution; we have had no revolutions. For this reason, we have not had a national day, that is, a day of independence, which we have made a national day. But within a year there are many good days to celebrate our beloved Denmark without having a national day. There are actually 365 days a year where we can celebrate Denmark. We also have a flag day for our broadcast as a good example of a day when we celebrate Denmark. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party do not believe that a single national day is needed. We certainly have to hold on to our traditional days as we already have, but we are not going to have a definite national day. So all in all, there are good intentions behind the proposal, but we do not support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110114121	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110114126	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. When I started thinking about what's been going on for a couple of years since I wrote it for the first time, I thought a lot about whether there are any arguments against it. And the argument I came up with before the debate here is exactly what Mr. Naser Khader uses. So I would like to congratulate you on that. I think that is a good argument when it is argued that it is not in line with the evolutionary or historical developments in Denmark. I recognize that. I therefore believe that there are other arguments which are so weighty that it should nevertheless be supported. That is why I would just like to ask: when Mr. Naser Khader looks around the other Nordic countries, is it not true that the characteristics he sees as an argument for not having it in Denmark are not necessarily present in those countries either? In the Faroe Islands, for example, you have. Saint Olav's day as national day; in Greenland you have the longest day of the year; Iceland I will pass by in silence because it was disgraceful what they did during the occupation; yes, and the Swedes have then the collapse of the Kalmar Union, for that they celebrate, for reasons that can then be discussed. But could it not be said that there is a special Nordic tradition that would justify this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110114234	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110114236	Norway, as I recall, has been subject to other countries, among others. Denmark for a longer period of time, and therefore there is some logic in having a National Independence Day. As far as Sweden is concerned, I do not support the fact that we are in any way inspired by the Swedes. But again, I believe that there are good arguments for having a national day. It is there, but we have also had a tradition of not having it, and the closest we get is, after all, constitutional day, which we are many people regard as a national day, the festival of democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110114313	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110114315	I accept that. But then I would just like to ask: could you imagine that Mr. Khader and his party, just as we heard from Mrs Nøjberg and the Left, would agree that we jointly find some concrete ideas on how to make Waldemarsdag more marked, more festive, more present in public awareness, even when we do not have round birthdays for the flag?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110114342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110114344	We are open to that. I think it is a good idea and a good idea, and we agree to make a little more of Waldemar's Day without making it a national day.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110114353	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks... sorry, there just came one. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110114404	I just can't help it. For every time, sir. Morten Messerschmidt makes a proposal here in the Danish Parliament, all the bourgeois rapporteurs come up and tell how excellent they really think it and the intention behind it etc. But you say no almost every time. I think so, sir. Morten Messerschmidt can confirm, and I'm a little puzzled about that. Because if you hear the debate that way, it will seem a little bit sought. It is not that we support it. I absolutely do not believe that a Christian crusade should be made our national day. But the way you invent your no to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's many diligent suggestions in this Things seem just a little sought.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110114452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110114454	The world isn't black and white, sir. Jens Rohde. As I mentioned in my speech, there are arguments for having a national day, but also against, and I went through it in my speech. I don't know if the rapporteur was present when I gave my speech okay, but he was, but we have had a tradition of not having it, and the closest we get to it is Constitution Day, and let us stick to that tradition. I agree that this is a sympathetic proposal. You could have, too, but we've just had a tradition of not having it. We conclude that we will make more of valdemar's day. I think that is a fine conclusion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110114536	Basic law Day has always been in my head in one way or another such a national day. Then perhaps we could make a little joint effort to lift it beyond the political and make something special of it. Sir. Naser Khader himself mentioned 17 May in Norway. I do not know whether any of the rapporteurs have been in Norway on 17 May, but it is a fantastic experience. It's not just about politicians running around with the media on their heels like out in the Danish summer parks and hitting each other in the head. The Constitutional Day has gotten a little bit of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110114610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110114612	Well, that depends on where you're gonna find yourself, uh, constitutional day. There are some who make more of it than others, but when the sun shines from a clear sky and formedbrog wajer, it is nice to drive in the Danish country and keep louder constitutional speeches. So it's
ParlaMint-DK_20200110114636	Thank you. Now there are no more brief comments to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, so we go further. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110114705	Thank you for the floor. As I said earlier, of course, New Citizens fully support the fact that we must celebrate our flag with a national day. I am well aware that many of us are already celebrating valdemar's Day. I am also aware that we are already batting on the valdemarsdag, but I think it is important that we in Denmark become aware of what it means to be Danish, especially at a time when we are becoming more and more globalised, when people travel across national borders as never before, where people come here to a degree that I am not very much in favour of, but which, unfortunately, is reality and where being part of our community is not only about our freedoms, but also understanding our culture, everything that binds us across political divisions, everything that makes us feel secure when we go out there. It's not just that the police are here or that there's a surveillance camera hanging. No, it's about us having a common mimik, a way of hanging out, which means that we can recognize ourselves in each other, that we can mirror ourselves in each other, and that we feel like one people. I would also venture to claim that the fact that we are a national community is important for us to be willing to share. That is the prerequisite for what some will call the welfare state and pay tribute to it, as others will call the welfare society and pay tribute to it. So this is because we pay taxes to people with whom we are neither related nor familiar and who may be geographically living in a very different part of the country. But we do so because we are part of a community, a community that is rounded up with common values, a community that we must understand and protect and watch out if we do not want it to crumble between our fingers. It may be a little dystopic when you talk about values just disappearing and slipping out, but if you look a little bit in the future and also look at what has happened in recent decades, then it is not quite dystopic to imagine that being Danish and understanding Danish culture and Danish values will be something different and for many Danes better not because it is globally better, but for us better than being Swedish, German, American, Somali, and what else you can be. Being Danish is something special. It is important for me personally, it is important for New Citizens, and I also think it is important for a great many Danes, both now and hopefully in the future. So I would like us to celebrate valdemarsdag as a common national day and talk about what it means to be Danish. To get it started. I do not think that we politicians should dictate what the content of valdemarsdag is and should be, but I would like us to set the day off and mark that this is something special for our country and that we allow the Danish people, civil society, to fill the content of it, which is civil society's task in a country where our culture comes from below and where all the values on which we build our society have quietly grown through generations. So there is full support for the proposal. New citizens will, of course, vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110115045	Thank you, and there is a brief comment. Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110115048	There are many of the literary culture pessimists from past times that I find amazing to read, but it is impressive, however, as cultural pessimism spreads in this Things. I think that's a shame. It was just a comment. The second is a question. It is quite obvious that Mrs Pernille Vermund does not like someone coming into our country and dominating something in this country. Does Mrs Pernille Vermund think it is worth celebrating that at the time we went on a Christian crusade, a conquest feast, in another country?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110115130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110115132	That is absolutely correct. I do not like the fact that there are people who, against the will of the people, are allowed to come here and dominate our way of life, our culture. I think it is a disgrace that politicians have for years allowed people to come here without having been the will of the people, and created some conflicts... some parallel societies, some clashes with the Danes... which are unfair to the Danish people and which are obviously very, very difficult to overcome. If we are to start with wars and past wars, we can talk about whether this is really an invasion. But I don't think that's it, sir. Jens Rohde wants to go, so I'll just say that a failed alien policy we could call an invasion. But if that is what the rapporteur is asking, let me hear it in the follow-up remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110115232	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110115235	I think my question was very clear, i.e. whether it is really worth celebrating one of our crimes. Because then there are many crimes from our own history that we could celebrate. Danes have not always done only good. I hope we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110115247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110115249	Danes haven't always done the good. But to call war a crime, to call it receiving the Danish flag, Dannebrog, which after all fell from the sky, according to legend, a crime, I don't even think radicals will do it after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110115311	Thank you, and the next for a brief comment is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110115315	It's sir. Jens Rohde's story forgery, calling me to take the floor. That's what Mr. Jens Rohde and the Radical Left have on several occasions called a crusade, after all, on the basis of a few centuries when the reverses have driven piracy around the Baltic Sea. Well, it's an attempt to push back this troublemaker over at the Baltic, beat them once and for all, so that Danish merchants and merchants and honest citizens do not have to live in daily fear of being run over. In other words, I find it incredible that the rapporteur does not agree that it is shameful to listen to the Radicals. This is a crusade against history by the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110115406	Was that a comment on the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110115413	Yeah, and I'd love to follow up. Yes, it is shameful. I'm not surprised, though. Let us bring it to the present: we have just had a situation where the Americans have taken a terrorist of days. They've done that to draw a line in the sand. The Iranians have for some time not only made life difficult for, I was going to say, Americans, but killed Americans. They have done their utmost to attack Western interests and American interests. Then you strike back, and what I heard in this context, including on the part of the Radical Left, was similar to what I now hear about valdemarsdag and the background to the valdemarsdag. So I'm not surprised. That is probably part of the political disagreement between the radical segment and the conservative-citizen segment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110115503	Thank you. I would just like to point out that when there is a rapporteur on the floor, it is the rapporteur to whom we have brief comments, because it is difficult, for good reasons, to argue against when you sit and do not have the floor. It's just for the record. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, so we move on to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110115534	Thank you. After all, we've already got the names of some prominent people who have their birthday on the valdemar Day. This is true of Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, and this is true of Michael Laudrup, and it might be possible to take advantage of this if it were to happen that one day a marketing campaign for a new national day was to be launched. It is not the case that we in the Liberal Alliance do not salute and honor Dannebrog. A dear possession with me personally and I can show that on demand after the debate... is a photograph of Mr. Søren Espersen and myself taken in Tallinn at exactly the place where Dannebrog fell to the ground in 1219. Yet we in the Liberal Alliance are sceptical about making Waldenmars Day a national day. This is not because the Waldemarsag is usually on top of the People's Assembly, which is why the People's Assembly would probably also have to be thought through if it suddenly went over national day. But it is actually a good argument that the Minister of Justice makes about labour supply and productivity and the financial costs of keeping this day off. I actually suggested the argument about labour supply at our group meeting, but we thought it sounded like a parody on the Liberal Alliance, which is why we didn't want to use it, so we dropped it. However, I am pleased to hear the same argument from the government, because it is actually expensive to take a day off, and we as a responsible parliament should of course take this into account. But thanks to the government for saving me from sounding like a parody on my own party. Perhaps what one might propose as a compromise was to make constitutional day a national day after all if one thinks that a national day should be held. Because I sometimes think that the discussion about what is Danish and what is foreign gets a little crazy. Perhaps this could be highlighted in connection with the day of the Constitution. For modern democracy is not invented in Denmark, Christianity is not invented in Denmark, the idea of enlightenment is not invented in Denmark. But it all comes to us in a specific Danish form. The Constitution creates a Danish democracy, although the idea has not been rounded here in Denmark. The Constitution creates Danish institutions, it creates a democracy in which we do things exactly the way it is happening here today with the forms of interaction we have and the traditions we have. It creates a Danish National Church, which is a grassroots organization instead of being a hierarchical organisation. I think we should be happy about that too. It creates the whole concept of popularity, which is simply a 1800-figure way of saying inclusion. That is actually what is meant by saying popularity, that is to say that it is for everyone. And that is what our constitution is based on, and I really think that is worth celebrating. So we could perhaps meet in a compromise proposal, which is that we turn constitutional day into national day, and then, as in the comments to that resolution, say that it also makes democracy and a number of international trends specifically Danish. And we're very comfortable with that. It is nice to be in our Parliament with our traditions and our dealings, and not in all sorts of other parliaments, where parties, government and parliament have other ways of interacting. So it's worth celebrating. However, we cannot support the proposal as it stands. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110115937	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110115941	First, to sweep it aside with the day off: we have deliberately chosen to avoid this, because we knew that it would all turn into an economic debate. Mr. Henrik Dahl's fellow party members may have loved, but we would just like to have a historical spiritual debate about being Danish and the fact that we do not have a national day today. Well, then, sir. Henrik Dahl, as we know him, suggests that it might be constitutional day, so I have to ask you back, if not Mr. Henrik Dahl can see that there is a lot in being Danish, being attached to this popular community, which is not just a constitutional party, a festival of democracy, and whether it would really not be more separate than gathering around Denmark, if we put the resemblance and said that Danishism and the constitution one into one is the same. - Sir... Henrik Dahl does not well see that we need a day when we just have a symbol which is apolitical, which is embraced, which is historic and which can include everyone and not just those who feel connected to the Constitution, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110120044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110120046	I really think I explained quite clearly why I think the discussion has more depths. Our institutions are very, very Danish, and they incarnate our way of doing things. We have arranged in our Parliament, where we stand, that we have a low power distance, that we have an informal way of doing things. Our Rules of Procedure are designed in the way Parliament's dealings with the government are arranged in this way. Our constitution is a formal document with rights and the division of power. But it is an incredible Danish document. It's both. And so it is with our grassroots church, where we just have no one who can speak on behalf of the church, but has a branched grassroots network. So I think it is also a good opportunity to talk about what is Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110120143	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110120145	Well, I guess the constitution is Danish. It's in a copy down here in the Walking Hall. So does Lex Regia. I guess it's Danish too. The hand fortress of King Hans is also Danish. So does Jyske Lov. But I guess that doesn't make the landscape laws any less Danish. So the point here is that being Danish is not something that relates to the relatively limited period from 1849 until now, but, of course, ties itself right back to the sagas, where we cannot date where science and brains must give up and where the heart must prevail.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110120218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110120219	That is not an invalid argument, of course. However, I do not think it makes any difference to demarcate in concrete terms and say: we have also found a very, very Danish way of taking these excellent ideas from abroad so that Christianity, democracy and enlightenment etc. And I think it's worth reflecting on that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110120246	Thank you. Then the next for a brief comment is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110120249	Thank you for the floor. Now we talk a lot about what political ideas and what legislation has been adopted before and after the Constitution, because we put it here in a context that is perfectly understandable, where we see Constitution Day as the day that many might think is almost our national day. I can easily follow that, and I would also like to say that when we saw the motion for a resolution here, we had the discussion in the group: could it also have been the day of the constitution? We ended up saying that a Danish national day should not only be linked to the political, to our freedoms and to the constitution, which everything else has changed along the way. Being Danish must also contain everything else. You can talk about the kind of fine-cultural: our literature through time, our history. You can also talk about all this in our daily lives. We meet under the Danish flag for major international sporting events. So in that light, can the rapporteur not see that the Danish is not only more, but should also be linked to more than our constitutional day?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110120410	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110120411	I mean, it's not like it's a completely invalid argument that I'm just gonna stand there and sweep away. However, I also think that other arguments in favour of not allowing days off and national days etc. I think it is fine that we should not turn it up, and I think it is fine that we should then use the Constitutional Day, if it is, to philosophise on what Danish culture is actually, for the reasons I have already said.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110120447	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110120448	If we stick to this kind of low-practical approach, then at least politically, many of us celebrate the day of the Constitution, and there are also many people in the country who celebrate the day of the constitution with electoral associations, in other words politically speaking. Although many of the speeches we make and listen to are about the freedoms that we have been given by the Constitution, it is, after all, everything else just a day that you often spend with people who are fellow-conversants. A national day ought to be the number of it, and that is one day when you celebrate the whole country and our entire nationality and go out into the streets and party with the flag and say that this is not a kidnapping of the Constitutional Day, but that it is a special and another day.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110120534	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110120536	I just don't recognize that. So, I think that the places where I participate in constitutional arrangements usually have some interpolitical character, where what is being talked about is also the constitution as something that brings us together and as something that is gradually Danish history quite a long way back. It is not a question of closing the valdemar's Day, so everyone can mark the valdemar's Day as much as it is important to them, even if it may affect the meeting of the people.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110120605	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next one is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110120618	Thank you, President. There are some special events in the history of Denmark, where politics has been put aside and where Danes have risen as brothers and sisters connected to the homeland that is theirs. This year we are celebrating the 100th anniversary of reunification, which came about after the Versailles negotiations, where the Schleswigers were asked and where they crossed. One was not asked whether one was a Social Democrat, a Conservative, a radical or a Socialist, but whether one was a Danish or a German. They then chose the Danish side from Nordslesvig. We are celebrating this today because Denmark is ours, as a family where you can fight intellectually, politically and in all other areas, but you are still brothers and sisters. The occupation of 5 dark years from 1940-1945 was a similar event in which the Resistance consisted of Communists, Conservatives and Radicals. It was people who put aside their political differences and made Denmark their common real cause. So being Danish is more than voting in the parliamentary elections. It is more than advocating gender equality and the Constitution, as we know it from 1953. It's deeper. And yet it doesn't take up much if you follow the daily debate. We've agreed to get a knack in the Assembly Hall. We've even gotten to where, sir. Jeppe Bruus of the Social Democratic Party praised the former chairman of the Folketing for the deed. However, it has been a process, a rather long birth, but we have reached that point. And that is a good thing, because it is precisely the formbrog that unites everything that is not politics, but it does mean that all 179 of us can say with love: yes, it is my flag. It is a flag that we have come to know from the people, as Mr. Jens Rohde mentioned, on the Christmas tree, in the colonial garden, but also has come to know from the loud voice. It is a flag that in this way differs greatly from the flags of other nations. The German flag shows roadways on top of state buildings. We do, too, in Denmark, but we also see it in the cake. And in this way formedbrok is something special popular, something special Danish. For me and the Danish People's Party it is therefore quite obvious that the very Waldemarsdag, where we not only mark the fact that we were once closed off from the Vendian piracy, but where we of course also mark the far more important message that God sent us this flag, is what embraces us Danish, where we can sit back as brothers and sisters and say: This is our home right across faith and politics and other disagreements. And precisely at a time, a time of migration, there may be particular reason to make it clear what that means. I think that a large part of the problems we have with people who come from outside and come to Denmark and want to be a part of Denmark may be due to the fact that it is not always equally clear to us who feel like Danish what it really is. Where other nations, and perhaps especially the countries from which the people in question typically come, are very proud of their identity markers, if we are to use that expression, it is as if relativism has occurred in Denmark. That's what I can say to Mr. Knox. Jens Rohde and other radicals are not positive from our point of view. We therefore need a day when we are just talking about what unites us and which does not share us politically. All the historical, heritage that we bear, literature, language, history, etc., we should not be afraid of. If we as people are afraid to say that we are Danish and that this is what we stand for, it will be impossible to meet strangers with a sincerity, with a joy and with a self-respect and thus also respect them. That is why I was almost happy when I heard one of the Socialist rapporteurs not so quoted, because it might be too much, but nevertheless summarize Grundtvig's words about being Danish, namely that it is a sense of belonging. Grundtvig writes in the publicity: "To a people they all hear,/as it is,/Has for the mother tongue ear,/Has for the fatherland fire. But he is also very clear as to what the consequences should be for those who do not have the mother tongue in the ear and the fatherland in the heart. Grundtvig goes on to write: "The rest itself as dragon puppets/Say from the People excludes,/Light itself out of the board/Never deny themselves the right of birth!" Now we are not going to stand here and lift Grundtvig to law, but perhaps in this globalised and superficial age we could reflect a little over what it really is for a feeling our national skald here incarnates, namely that loving Denmark is not something to put with, it is something to be proud of. The fact that you love your own country does not mean that you hate other countries; nor does it mean that you hate other people when you say that you love your mother more than others' mothers or fathers. We're talking native language and country. It's a family. And that is precisely what we need, like Swedes, Norwegians, Faroese, Greenlanders and many others, to mark in our special Danish way. Perhaps you could also speak of a special Nordic way, for Mr. Naser Khader is right when he says that it is not something that has so grown out of Danish history. That's right. However, in modern times it has not prevented other Nordic peoples from making a decision to have a national day and then shape their way of doing so on the Greenlanders in agreement with the tradition they have for nature, and the whole thinking that emanates from it, the Faroese in agreement with their Christian faith from Saint Olav's day etc. Why should we not also in Denmark choose to say: yes, we also want national day? Why shouldn't we just choose to say: Politics we talk about every day of 365 days a year? This certainly applies to us in here, but it is also the subject of the debate outside. And constitutional day has turned into politics. Last time we even had parliamentary elections on constitutional day. And that's good, because you can't even imagine a modern Denmark without a modern Danish folk regime, of course. But of course it does not mean that Denmark, Danishness and Danish identity are only Danish folk rule. But Denmark and Danishness can one for one be contained in the flag that Valdemar Victory brought home that day in 1219. There is reason to remember that both for the people who come from outside and want to be part of the Danish, but certainly also, Mr President. Rune Lund, for the people who are born in Denmark and who are today perplexed in this identityless time when you have to choose everything for yourself. It is good that an authoritative voice says: You belong in this nation, in this history, in this culture and with this language. You have a mother and a father who you have a mother tongue and a homeland; with that baggage you must shape your own identity. And that is precisely why it is a good idea to have a national day on the valdemarsdag. There have not only been negative comments, and that is why I would just like to end by signing up to the Minister for Justice, Mr President. Jeppe Bruus, Mrs Inger Løjberg and others for the positive things that have been said on the proposal and on the valdemarsdag. If we can't agree to make Waldemar's Day a national day, then peace be with it. Or maybe ideas like this need to mature and take some time. But perhaps we can agree to make something more of Waldemar's Day, namely to make it an event in the country's primary schools, kindergartens and all the places where we meet, for example. in church, civil society, scouts, sports associations, etc. So, just as we have Constitution Day, and as we have Christian festivals, we also make Waldenmars Day something present and important. So, even though there may be more red buttons, not red white buttons, but red buttons that light up when we vote on this proposal, I still hide the positive words that have come from many rapporteurs and look forward to the further work. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110121543	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110121548	I do not like argument resistance, which is why I agree with something positive, because I think it was an excellent speech, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt held. And it is actually just now that, with his words and the way he presents it, he can convince me that it is perhaps something that needs to be considered carefully. But Jeppe Aakjær also said in his Jenle speech in 1911 that they should guard themselves from those who would crucify the nation on a flag of a brook. When I mention it, it's because Mr. Morten Messerschmidt speaks of the fact that on such a day, when we talk about and celebrate the birthbrog, we are going to get over the political aspect. But sir... Mr Morten Messerschmidt did not admit that he himself helped politicize the formbrog and therefore in this way, and in his own way, along with his party, stands a little in the way of the message which he actually so well brings here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110121650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110121651	I would like to congratulate the rapporteur so much that he has been politicised. But whoever did this, I don't think we're gonna agree on that. Because in the Danish People's Party we proudly use the formbrog. What has made it so politicised is not that we are using a formbrog, but that other parties, for various reasons, have refrained from doing so. If it were now the case that all Danish parties were to be radical or if you are a socialist would use a formbrog as a completely natural thing in their everyday lives, there would be no one who would connect the formbrog with the parties that then actually do so. I would just like to mention, as I did to the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party in the past, that, 100 years ago, when the 700th anniversary of Denmark's birthday was celebrated, and even in the Socialist Group in the newspaper, Mr Stauning advocated that he should stand side by side with the red tabs. In fact, I believe that he had formed a brook in the reverse since he was erected on Langeland, and in this way he carried the tradition, also in his own work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110121757	Thank you. Then there will be no further brief comments to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110121823	The debate has been opened and the first one on the platform is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110121850	I would also like to start by thanking you for having this debate today on visa rules. The question of how we should deal with those countries that do not want to receive their own citizens comes up on a regular basis, and I think there are many of us who think that this is a very relevant and very important discussion, and of course I think that those who do not have a legal residence in Denmark should go home rather today than tomorrow. I also have a clear expectation that the countries from which foreigners come will cooperate to receive their own citizens. If the countries do not cooperate, I and the government are, of course, prepared to investigate what might be of relevant tools to respond to those countries. But the reactions to countries that do not cooperate cannot stand alone, and that is why I am already looking at how we can strengthen our efforts towards foreigners who are no longer supposed to be in this country, so that as many as possible travel home voluntarily. It's kind of a different discussion. The proposal we are debating today is about whether it should be possible to refuse visas to citizens of countries subject to visa requirements if they refuse to receive their own nationals. I understand that the proposers of the Danish People's Party want to tighten visa rules with the aim of pressing countries that are not willing to cooperate. In concrete terms, the idea is that a whole new group of countries should be set up in which those countries that refuse to accept their own citizens should then be placed. First of all, of course, we must continue to work to increase the pressure on these countries which, for one reason or another, do not accept their own citizens. That is what we are doing today and have been doing for quite a number of years, and it also works in some contexts. Then there are the other cases where our efforts do not work and here it may make sense that we find some areas where we can respond to those countries that are not willing to cooperate in the reception of their own citizens. I also think it makes sense to include considerations of cooperation in the assessment of which one of the main groups for the granting of visas should be placed in, but to that I must say that such considerations are already being made and have been carried out for many years in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration when the Ministry decides which countries should be in which main groups. As the authors themselves sum up in the motion for a resolution, we have the opportunity right now to place a country in a division 5, in which the countries whose citizens have the most difficulty in obtaining visas are located. The Order states and now I read out loud: "Head group 5 includes countries and regions whose nationals are considered to pose a particularly high risk of immigration in Denmark or other Schengen countries and to which there may be expulsion difficulties. It is therefore already part of the decision as to whether a country should be placed in Division 5, whether that country is willing to cooperate with regard to receiving its own nationals or whether there are expulsion difficulties. At the same time, fortunately, some new EU rules have been adopted, which will enter into force in a few weeks' time, at the beginning of February, when visa policy can be applied restrictively to certain countries in order to improve cooperation on the readmission of their own nationals. I am also looking forward to that change, and I think it makes sense. That is why, basically, I believe that the system we have in Denmark today, which we are already using today, where we have divisions 1-5, is working very well, and that it is already possible to increase the pressure on those countries by placing them in Division 5, especially if you look at it in the context of the new opportunities we will have in a few weeks' time. The new EU rules that we will have will also help to put a lot of pressure on countries that do not cooperate on readmission, bearing in mind that the pressure comes with the EU's overall strength. That said, of course, a number of other considerations are also taken into account in the assessment of the division in which a particular country is to be located, and therefore it would not be the case that the countries which form part of Division 5 necessarily correspond to the countries in which the broadcasts are fixed. The government is, of course, constantly considering whether Division 5 should be extended, in the event that a country does not contribute sufficiently to the reception of its own nationals without a residence in Denmark, but if we allow this to be one-off without weighing the other considerations which must necessarily be included, then we risk that the result will in fact be something other than what we really want, for example. that we will unwittingly support visa shopping between the Schengen countries, because foreigners simply apply for visas from another Schengen country, where practice is more relaxed. The proposers also mention that it should be all citizens of the new group of countries who will not in any way be able to obtain visas for Denmark or for other Schengen countries. I understand that the authors of the motion do not want there to be any possibility of making exceptions for a national of a country which is not cooperative in relation to expulsion to be granted a visa. To this I would also like to say that there is a purely legal argument that this is not legally possible, because our EU legal obligations say that a concrete assessment must be made in every case. I have also noted that the proposers themselves stress that they do not object to foreigners visiting Denmark on a visa as long as they follow the conditions for the visa and therefore also exits from Denmark once the visa expires. In particular, I agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution, and for that reason I do not believe that it is a solution to cut everyone off from one side and, therefore, from one side to the next. automatically deny visas to foreigners who faithfully travel out when their visit to Denmark is completed. After all, we issue over 100,000 visas a year. That is why I think it is also important that there are exceptions, and we are already seeing those exceptions today, when we are studying the conditions for granting visas to nationals of countries located in division 5. I therefore believe that there is no need to change practices in this area. So to end where I started: I think that foreigners who have no legal basis for residence in Denmark should be sent out by Denmark, and this naturally presupposes that we have good cooperation with some of the country in question in which the alien is based, but I do not believe that the solution is to create a new rigid division 6, since I believe that division 5 already takes account of the considerations that may be for reasons of broadcasting difficulties. We cannot therefore support the proposal from the government. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110122515	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110122518	First, just for clarification: we are fully aware that the visa rules have been transferred to the European Union, and that is why the proposal is also that the government should travel it here in the European Union. It is clear that, unfortunately, Denmark cannot carry out this task itself. But I don't even understand that the government is prepared for that, and I don't really understand that. Making a group 6, which consists of actual no-go countries, will send a fantastic signal. In other words, those countries which do not want to take back their own rejected or expelled citizens come on a list, and when an application comes from a national of one of the countries concerned, it goes directly into the shredder. It will, of course, send out a splendid signal that it actually has a consequence that these countries will not take their own citizens back in that way. So if we ignore the purely formal fact that it is an EU area and we in Denmark cannot do it ourselves, and we therefore call on the government to lift it here at a JHA meeting and perhaps even convene an Intergovernmental Conference on it, what would the argument against it be?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110122621	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110122622	Thank you for the question. I also think it is important to remember that this would not only affect the countries concerned. It would also affect Denmark when Danish companies would not be able to have business contacts and when we would not be able to set up sports conferences in Denmark if we could not get foreigners from certain countries to participate in them. It may also be researchers who will participate in Danish research in connection with research that takes place at Danish universities. So, I think we have some excellent rules that say that if you are placed in Division 5, it is quite difficult to obtain a visa, but there must be exceptions, for example. for some of the reasons I mention here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110122704	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110122705	I do not think we have any excellent rules when there are hundreds of people sitting around Denmark who alone by refusing to stay here, despite the fact that it is illegal. Well, it's people who don't have any legal title to be here. The Minister stands in the lurch and is now rejecting a proposal which could strengthen him slightly vis-à-vis those third countries that will not accept it. We are talking about countries such as Iraq, Iran, Sudan, Congo, Myanmar. I do not know whether the Minister can reveal how many highly specialised workers we have from the countries of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110122740	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110122741	I do not dare to quantify that, but I can say that we have about 1,100 people in broadcasting positions in Denmark. They cost about 300,000 kroner. This is, of course, frustrating because, apart from being economically expensive, it is also something that undermines confidence in the refugee system, and it also contributes to a security risk. So I fully understand that we have a political problem here. I am just a little nervous about trying to solve it in this way, because I really do not believe that it will solve it, but only harm Danish industry, Danish sports life and also Danish research.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110122814	The next brief remark is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110122817	Thank you for the floor. I am a little concerned when I hear the Minister talking about Danish sports life as a counterweight to the broadcasting of criminal foreigners or foreigners that we do not want in the country. As the Minister says, there are 1,100 that we cannot get rid of, to $300,000. per Nose, you have to understand. It wasn't quite clear, but I suppose that's the number. With the massive pressure that has been going on for many years, with the great debate that has been going on in society, how difficult it is to send these people back, and with the situation that government after government has tried to get rid of exiles and where it has not succeeded, the argument is being used that athletes and individual professionals from these countries, as I know, are not the ones who produce most of those who travel here with great knowledge in their luggage, as a counterweight to the fact that we can send people out that we do not want to have in the country. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110122924	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110122925	I would like to start by saying that it costs at least a year per year. someone in a broadcast position, and that just underlines why this is a relevant and important discussion. And if I believed that it would be easier to get those countries to receive their own citizens if they were completely refused visas, I would also think it was worth considering. I just don't believe that. I think the only effect of this would be that we shot ourselves in the foot. One of those countries, sir. Morten Messerschmidt mentions and is also one of the countries with which we really have broadcasting difficulties, namely Iran, is also a country with which we have trade. And that is why I think we should consider what consequences it would have if we said: under no circumstances can any Iranian come on a visitor visa to Denmark. It would also have an impact on business policy. And then when I don't even believe that it would help in getting people sent out, I don't think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110123013	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110123014	I fully agree that you can have an idea of how something works and doesn't work, but here we are dealing with something that has been martyring governments for a long time. And I also assume that the Minister martes that there are people who do not have Danish citizenship and who refuse to leave and that there are countries that refuse to take their own citizens back. In that light, could one not try to say: now we are doing this for a period of time, and let's measure it in five years or seven years? And if that does not have the necessary effect, then we must say that then we have become wiser. Should we not do so rather than just base it on faith, when we are dealing with something that everything else equals is relatively serious?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110123055	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110123056	Well, I'm gonna start by confirming that yes, it's gonna martify me, too. It did so before the elections, and it still makes it disappear, because I think it is untenable. I would also just like to say that if you are in Division 5 quite a lot before a visa is issued, that does not happen because you are going to a children's birthday in Denmark. This applies to funerals or really serious illness, and otherwise it must be business people where we are quite sure that they do not jump off and seek asylum, but where they are just going back home. It is very few people who get visas in this way. And I think we should ask ourselves whether it is not in the interests of our country that there are those exceptions, even if one is located in division 5.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110123134	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. There are no more brief comments. We are now embarking on the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110123146	Thank you. The proposal here suggests that we in Denmark should work to completely deny visas to citizens of visa-free countries who refuse to accept their own nationals. In the Social Democratic Party we agree with the intention of the resolution, namely to put pressure on countries which will systematically not receive, for example. rejected asylum seekers and criminal foreigners on tolerated residence. However, when the Social Democratic Party is unable to support the resolution, it is because we believe that in each visa case a specific and individual assessment should be made, as is the case today. Today, it is already the case that, as a starting point, visas are only granted in exceptional situations if they come from a country that does not show the will to receive its own nationals. There may be very special cases, for example. a close family member who is fatally ill. I would also like to point out that we in the European Union have made it possible to put increased pressure on countries that do not want to receive their own citizens. The Commission must regularly assess the cooperation of countries to receive their own nationals and, if a country does not cooperate, it may, inter alia,: an increased visa fee or a longer processing period for the visa processing is imposed. Against this background, I repeat that the Social Democratic Party cannot support the proposal, and I must also say on behalf of the SF that the SF cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110123308	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110123310	Thanks for the post. Of course, this cannot be surprising. Now the Socialist Minister has been heard first, and now we hear the Socialist rapporteur. So I shall refrain from asking the same question again. But then I would like to draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that it is not just the case that these countries are refusing to take back their own rejected, expelled citizens. We are also in the complete baroque situation that a number of them receive Danish assistance. Well, we're talking about almost 400 million. kr., which six of the countries that do not want to take their own citizens back receive through the Finance Act. For me, it screams completely to heaven that we are dealing with some countries that are opposed to Danish interests by not taking their own citizens back, and at the same time, yes, the Danish state sends out aid crowns. I do not think the adjective I am going to use is in the Rules of Procedure at all. So I would just like to know if the rapporteur does not agree that it should stop.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110123406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110123407	I agree, as a starting point, that, of course, this should be the basic starting point, that we should not, on the one hand, provide assistance to a country which, on the other hand, will not accept its own nationals. I think that is right as a starting point. On the other hand, I would also like to say that there may be exceptions. There may be special considerations. There may be business policy considerations, there may be other reasons for cooperation. There may be negotiations between governments that I do not know about. There may be other considerations at stake that mean that something that seems crazy at first sight and that the rapporteur cannot find an adjective such as it would be appropriate to describe it here in the Parliamentary Assembly, so it does take place anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110123452	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110123453	Excuse me, sir. Rasmus Stoklund, but it seems that we are dealing with a social democracy in a government that would like to be external, especially before the parliamentary elections, will appear to be really tough and consistent, as some people who really want to strike a blow in the sense of the word. But when it comes down to it, you have just made a budget law, and when there are these proposals that we are putting forward, you vote no, and then you do not do what you want to do. - Sir... Rasmus Stoklund doesn't understand that there may be some and probably a growing group outside this floor wondering about the quirk that characterizes the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110123527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110123528	I do not have any need for outsiders or for others to appear as being harsh or edgy or any of the other things described by the rapporteur. What is important to me is that the bottom line of social democracy policy is that we safeguard cohesion, and that hangs, among other things. Along with the fact that we are pursuing a firm foreign policy. To answer the question a little more specifically: I think the rapporteur is wrong here. I agree with the goal, but I just think he's found the wrong tool from the toolbox. This is because, with the way it is today, it is almost impossible to obtain a visa if you come from one of the countries concerned, and if we go the way the rapporteur wants, the consequence will be simply that you get a visa in another Schengen country and then come to Denmark anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110123619	Thank you. The next brief remark is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110123622	Thank you for the floor. I understand from the rapporteur that it is because this is a wrong tool, but one agrees with the objective. It is, after all, in line with what the Minister said before, so it is gratifying. But I still think that, when you are the Social Democrat who is in power, you need to tell us what you want to do instead. Because the situation is that until now, over the last six months, we have been told that quota refugees will be taken back. That means more people have to come here. There has been an increase in benefits for foreigners in Denmark, which also leads to an increased risk of more people coming here. But we are not prepared to vote in favour of this, nor have any other initiatives been put forward to make it easier for Denmark to get rid of the people who have come here and no longer have the right to be here. Would it not be reasonable for the government to invite in with some concrete proposals on how to resolve it so that we achieve the objective that we agree on?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110123729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110123730	Well, I always think that a government has an obligation to work to achieve the goal that we then agree on, but where we assess which tools in the toolbox we need to reach, differently. However, I do not recognise a lot of the other premises on this issue, for example. the premise that the government is not doing anything now or that we cannot do anything now. There's two leads. There is both what we can do nationally, but then there is also the EU track, where the Commission has an obligation to keep track of which countries are working with us to accept their own citizens. And if there are countries that do not, there may be higher visa fees, there may be other processing times • it may have some consequences. There it is, of course, that we, as a single European Union, are also stronger than if we are trying alone as a small country to do something on our own, not least because we will probably see that many of them from, for example, the United Kingdom. Division 5 will simply seek a visa in another Schengen country and then come in through the back door to Denmark anyway, but in a very uncontrolled way where they just get across the border without us having them under control.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110123833	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110123834	It will, of course, be easy for such a lot of talk, especially when concrete proposals are put forward and rejected with some general reasons and then nothing else to do. As you know, a parliamentary term is maximum. 4 years and it may be shorter. Is the Social Democratic Party prepared to take a closer look at proposals such as this or the proposal to withdraw aid from countries that do not want to take back their own citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110123914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110123915	I am sorry that the rapporteur sees it as hot air I am sending from up here, because I am actually trying to answer the question very honestly. I sincerely believe that we have a greater chance of achieving the goal of sending out citizens who have nothing to do in Denmark if we cooperate with other EU countries on this than if we try to go alone and then get into a situation where these people, for example, are going to be able to do so. People from Iraq or Syria or elsewhere are trying to get a visa in another Schengen country and then coming to Denmark by the back road. I do not think that there is anything wrong in this way, what should be said, to try to avoid the question put by the rapporteur at all. I just think it is a wrong solution that the rapporteur is trying to bring forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110124002	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Inger Løjberg from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110124017	Thank you. In the Left, we are fully in line with the Danish People's Party, because it is of course totally unacceptable that there are countries for which Denmark cannot impose unwanted foreigners. That is also why, in the previous bourgeois government, we tightened up this unsustainable situation, and that is also why the EU's visa policy has been strengthened in recent years. After all, there are a number of countries that want the benefit but do not want to give anything in return. When a country like this... Iran refuses to accept its own citizens, so it should also have a consequence. That is why I think it is only right and proper that we should make demands and tighten up the rules on visas. But it is just not a step we can take alone; it is a step that we must take very much with other EU countries if it is to work effectively. That is why I would also like to say that there are very good tactics in this proposal that the Danish People's Party has put forward and we are discussing today, and we fully agree with the objective that countries that refuse to accept their own citizens should, of course, do so in the future. But we may not agree entirely with the means of achieving that. If only a specific group of countries are created in which no visa can be granted to its nationals at all, we do not necessarily see that we will achieve the desired result. Indeed, as others have already said, this could have negative consequences. It can, for example, be done. unintentionally go beyond Danish companies that actually do business in some of these countries, or research institutions that could be dependent on the exchange of experts. That is why it will be able to put obstacles in the way, just as it can be said that our foreign service could also be hindered in their work. In other words, in the Left, we think that visa policy should be used as a more active part for these countries, as we have said in the past, and we are of course aware of this: aid policy must also be used in some cases for countries that do not accept their own citizens, so that in the future too, for example, there is a need for a visa policy. a visa may be refused. However, this is an area in which we believe that we are far, far strongest if we are doing so at EU level. That is why, of course, there must also be a call for the present government to continue the work which the former bourgeois government set in motion in this very, very important area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110124326	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110124330	Well, Mrs. Løjberg, this proposal is about EU level. So, if I may quote the proposal that Mrs Løjberg has just spoken about, it instructs the government to seek agreement within the circle of Schengen countries to change the Schengen acquis for visas to Denmark and the rest of the Schengen area, so that visas are denied to persons who are nationals of countries that refuse to receive their own nationals. So it is, after all, a proposal that is aimed at the whole area of the European Union. But that is not what the Left wants. What do you want? Well, I think that might be nice to hear. It is true, as Mrs Løjberg says, that until recently she was responsible for this area. I remember Mrs. Løvberg making a deal with, among others. Somalia to send 12 people home a year... now the minister can probably count better than I do... but I think there are 800 Somalis in Denmark who refuse to go home. In other words, with the plan that Mrs Løbberg has just presented, we will be at the end of 66 years. I can say that we in the Danish People's Party are probably a little more impatient. So since the Left is unable to support the proposal we have put forward here... well enough with other arguments, I am assuming that it is not the ones you use yourself... what do you want instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110124429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110124430	We will use all means, including, of course, visa policy. It is just necessary to do this exactly at EU level, and that is also why we worked quite intensively on it in my time as minister. As far as agreements with other countries are concerned, this is not, in fact, something that can often be said about publicly, and therefore it does not come to the public's knowledge of what might actually have been concluded by agreements or what it might be like in relation to other countries. But what we should not be blind to is that when we could reach an agreement with a third country to receive x number of citizens, it also very often stops the flow to Denmark from that country. So it doesn't really matter how to get something like that screwed up. I would like to say once again that I believe that all the means should be used, including aid policy, because there is something very, very wrong with the fact that, on the one hand, we are providing assistance to some of these countries and, on the other hand, they will not accept their own citizens to whom they are otherwise obliged.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110124542	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110124543	Peace be more that. I have to confess that this is something I have read in the daily press, and that does not necessarily mean that things are true and I would very much like to admit it. But I still do not understand why the Left cannot support this proposal. Mrs Nøjberg says that it is about lifting at EU level. Well, the proposal here promises at EU level. It is an invitation that obliges the government to raise it here at EU level, so that we have a special group 6 within the framework of the visa rules, where those countries that choose not to accept their own citizens then choose to say that then visas are just excluded. What's the bad part?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110124619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110124620	I think it is quite important that we give the government a room for manoeuvre to negotiate with other EU countries in this area, and that is why we will be rather sad to get too much on the hands and feet of the government, because it can be quite difficult to sit exactly in the Folketing and see how the debates in, for example, the European Parliament are being held. The JHA Council will take place. But that is also to say that we fully support the need for a visa policy. Let me also say that I believe that it could be the newspaper Politiken, as Mr. Messerschmidt has read this in the ▪ and I usually take it with a spruce of salt, what it says there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110124659	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110124715	I don't imagine that this is a means that means that the countries that you want to put pressure on are forever in this category 6. So, when you make a proposal like this, it is to get countries to take their citizens home, and that is why I hope that if it works, it will also mean that category 6 will quietly be exhausted for countries, because countries will start taking their own citizens home and then they will be able to smoke back into the other categories. I have full respect for the fact that it is not the policy of the Left to use other means, so let me move on to what the rapporteur is now saying in relation to aid funds. Will the Left help to table a motion for a resolution or a draft law? Now you may have a little more powers in the Left and more resources to draw it up so that it can become a real bill to deprive foreign aid from countries that do not want to withdraw their own nationals?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110124826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110124827	No, we do not want to do that in general, because sometimes the wrong people can be punished in such cases. I mean, if we take such things as foreign aid, I can, for example. Remember that I was in Uganda myself at one time. There have been some problems, it has to be said, in general terms, and if foreign aid had been withdrawn from Uganda at that time, there would actually have been a risk that it would have affected, for example. homosexuals in Uganda, who are already, to put it mildly, rude and oppressed, and that would create, one might say, a very unfortunate situation and be completely contrary to what we really want. So that's why sometimes you can use it so you need it and you can also use it to put pressure on some of these countries. Moreover, I myself have done so in my time as a minister when I have spoken to ministers from the countries concerned who have received aid from us from developing countries but who have not wanted to take their own citizens back.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110124932	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110124933	But will there not always be oppressed groups in these countries we are talking about? Well, that's exactly why people run away and won't be there. There will always be people who are oppressed, and thus always, if you say that all citizens are equally worth protecting for the Danish Parliament, be something that weighs so much in the balance that you must obviously understand that there are Danes who have to be sacrificed at that expense. I wonder whether we should not say more: the pressure that needs to be put on must be one hundred per cent to get them to take their own citizens home. Once this has been done, we can look again at how to introduce other visa rules or possibly help to develop countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110125019	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110125021	So, I think it has to be said that precisely in this area, the world is relatively nuanced, and one just has to be careful, in cases where foreign aid is taken from some countries, that it is not going to affect a group which has not been intended to suffer at all, but which is simply being blamed for it in that country. I will be very, very careful about that. On the other hand, I would say that sometimes aid from developing countries can be a good tool to push with, in other words, to say that we simply take away part of it. So it is certainly not a refusal to use it as a tool, instrument, but I also think that one should be careful not to say that one has to do it every time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110125103	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110125106	If you look at the last thing Mrs Inger Løjberg says, it is rare that I have been so happy, yes, now Mrs Inger Løjberg is worried, but that is because at least a little bit of the liberal basic vision remains. This isn't about refugees. I mean, it has nothing to do with the visa requirement when you issue it. After all, it is not about people coming up here and seeking asylum, etc. But when you choose to look at this and say that you can use the visa instrument for people, is it not to make the state the same as the individual and the individual responsible for what a government and a state do? That is a rather collectivistic way of thinking. Does not the liberal view, Mrs Inger Løbberg, suggest that the individual should not be punished? I heard her say that, too, I think for what the government of a country does and does not do with foolishness?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110125210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110125211	That is absolutely correct. I got really nervous, you could even see it on me, I guess, when Mr. Jens Rohde said it was as if I had practically said something sensible. Sir. Jens Rohde has long been like a beacon to me, and I know you have to keep a proper distance, or you sail on land. Having said that, however, we are already applying the visa rules, including in relation to the risk that people will then actually seek asylum afterwards. This is being looked at, and that is why it is an individual allocation, as the Minister also said. For there are some countries from which it is known that the risk that people, you might say, simply jump off the system and suddenly seek asylum is great. That's why it's already being used today, and then Mr. Jens Rohde calls it what he wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110125300	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110125302	Yeah, yeah, but it's okay, too. There are, of course, some requirements as to when visas can be obtained and so on, and we can agree on all these things very well. But the idea of punishing the individual citizen for what a country's government is doing seems to me to be a bit collectivistic, and therefore the basic liberal view should always say that we do not. But, of course, we are not just giving visas like that. Of course, we need to control what is going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110125339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110125340	No, but that's not necessarily how it's supposed to be used. Because it can also be used in connection with denying, for example. Heads of State or Heads of State to come to e.g. Europe for health care or education. This is one of the proposals that have been applied at EU level, and I therefore see it as quite reasonable, because it will put pressure on us precisely because we know that in a number of cases, for example, there are a number of people who do not have the right to vote. African and also Middle Eastern countries from the European countries can be said to use the health sectors and education systems of the European countries for their own gain, but also for the benefit of children. I think you can look at that if you could not use it as an instrument so as to refuse a visa.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110125429	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. The rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution has asked for his speaking time to be divided. Morten Messerschmidt from Dansk Folkeparti now 5 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110125440	Thank you, President. In the Danish People's Party we want a complete asylum freeze so that people who enter Denmark do so because they undoubtedly contribute something positive, and not only because they are some of the few in the world who may have a more convenient life coming here. We had a consultation on this yesterday and what plans the government is making to change the asylum system. This is likely to have a long way to go. Quite how long we can not be told that is part of the problem and therefore we also need to focus wider than just in terms of stopping the influx. This is absolutely crucial if we are to mitigate some of the effects that the harmful immigration policy has caused us to launch a genuine return policy as soon as possible. The people who have been rejected and deported must at least be the first to be focused on, and so today there are quite a lot of people who, simply because they do not want to leave, are still away in Denmark. It is deeply offensive to the right of conscience, and it is deeply offensive to the entire trust in the asylum and alien system, but it is also directly contrary to what can be said to be the interests of the Danish people. If we look at the consequences of the immigration policy that has been going on over the last 30 years, then we have reached an absolute breaking point where everyone has either experienced the consequences on their own body or knows anyone who has. It may be entire residential areas that are totally transformed into unrecognizable ethnic enclaves; it may be their own body or family members who are subjected to the violent assaults that we experience from criminal aliens; it may be the mosques that shoot up like pad-hats around the country, and therefore a radical turnaround is needed when it comes to foreign policy. I really do not think it is too much to say to those countries, typically in the Middle East and Asia, which do not even want to take back their rejected and expelled citizens, that this must have a consequence. Yes, sir. Jens Rohde, that it is collectivism, because then there are people who cannot come to Denmark, even though they have done nothing themselves, even though they have not committed any criminal acts. Yeah, that's it. You have to live under the regime that is now. You have to bear responsibility for the popular history and the nation you belong to. That is also the case today for the people who are in categories 5 and 4 and 3 of the visa rules, because it is probably very uncomfortable if you want to go to Denmark to sell some dates. This is the case, however, because we come from a country where the government is despots and dictators and behaves in the way that this kind of thing does, and we have to spread that responsibility. Because if we do not make this a responsibility which has a broad popular base, then we will hardly be able to overthrow the despots that threaten world peace, nor will we change the behaviour of having these rejected and expelled people back. That is why it is a little bit disconcerting to hear the two parties, which in one way or another courtesy to the Prime Minister here: none of them are willing to take any real steps. Oh, there are some athletes who may not be coming to Denmark, and it may also be that it costs a little on the balance of payments, and what about the international reputation etc.? I have to say that Denmark is not, therefore, a limited liability company where it is simply a matter of ensuring as high growth and productivity as possible. Denmark is the Danes' homeland, and you owe it to the Danes to give priority, and these people have nothing to do in Denmark. They have received factual treatment which their own countries would not under any circumstances be able to give them, and in one of the most transparent, democratic and equal societies they have the nerve to say that they will not follow the decision. The two parties which then court the Prime Minister's office say that yes, they are trying with a little diplomacy, while sending hundreds of millions of crowns of support, because there could be some groups affected if we do not do so. Frankly, we find it shameful, and we should remember it if that line does not change towards the parliamentary elections. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110125845	Thank you. There are just a few brief comments. The first one's for sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110125849	Does the rapporteur not even realize that the consequence of the rapporteur's proposals will be that those we do not want will continue to come and those we want and I assume that the rapporteur will be able to find someone he wants so that he will not be able to come? 'Cause they're gonna play by the rules. It can be researchers, business people, business partners, and they won't come. Those we do not want and who we have problems getting rid of will still come away, because they will only go somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110125915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110125917	Thank you, President. I fully recognise that sub-consequences, because the great consequence will be wider. So it will be that when you get on a real no-go list, that means that cooperation will end. It is true that if there is a brain surgeon or a nuclear scientist somewhere down in the Congo that we need in Denmark, then he will not be able to come back. However, I would just like to say that I am willing to pay that price, so that we have a clear consequence to those countries that do not lift their international law and moral duty to take these people back.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110125952	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110125953	But does the rapporteur not recognise that it is a perfectly correct argument that many of these people will simply enter another Schengen country and will therefore come anyway? And then the rapporteur has not achieved what was intended by the rapporteur's proposal. That was one part. The second part is: does the rapporteur not also recognise that when you look at the main groups, they will from, for example, the Division 5 was virtually unable to obtain a visa. These are very special circumstances that need to be dealt with. So, let us not say that when you have Division 5, which is a dynamic list that can be updated, we are quite well on our way towards what the rapporteur wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110130033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110130035	No, I think you should use all the tools that might be in the toolbox, and having a division 6, which simply means that it is a no-go country, a country where you simply cannot apply for a visa, will be stronger than a country in group 5. In relation to the first question, I just have to say that I do not understand how the perception that this should only relate to Danish visa rules has spread. I would just like to repeat, with the permission of the President, the proposal: the Parliament instructs the government to seek agreement in the circle of Schengen countries to change the Schengen acquis for visas to Denmark and the rest of the Schengen area so that visas are denied to persons who are nationals of countries that refuse to receive their own nationals. It's all Schengen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110130113	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110130116	Sir. Mr. Morten Messerschmidt may be kind enough to explain to the wondering people and to the millions of television viewers who are looking at Mr. Morten Messerschmidt at this moment, how many of the last 20 years, the Danish People's Party, have had a decisive influence on the immigration and immigration policy, which has been so disastrous. Morten Messerschmidt?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110130144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110130149	None of the years, unfortunately. We have not had a decisive influence. If we had had a decisive influence, the rules would have looked very different. When we peaked, we had 37 seats, which unfortunately does not give decisive influence in a country where the majority of parliament consists of 90 seats. I can promise you, sir. Jens Rohde said that if we had had 90 seats, things would have looked quite different.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110130205	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110130206	Now, like myself, I have been with some of the years, and I would say that it is certainly not possible to underestimate the influence of the Danish People's Party on precisely that part of Danish politics, so the Danish People's Party bears considerable responsibility for what Mr. Morten Messerschmidt calls a disaster.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110130226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110130227	I can also confirm that Mr. Jens Rohde was present for part of the years and was part of the problem. Many of the proposals made by the Danish People's Party in those years, which could have solved the problems or at least prevented them from escalating to where we have reached today, were, of course, blocked by Mr. Jens Rohde's party at that time, and I do not think that the appearance has been made any easier, according to Mr Rohde. Jens Rohde has become radical.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110130247	Thank you. The next brief remark is Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110130252	Thank you for the floor. It sounds like the debate, a little bit as if you think that this is primarily about preventing the brains of the Congo from coming here and not what is really in the proposal, namely getting countries to take their own citizens back, that is to say, the group of citizens who have either come here as illegal immigrants or are people who have come and committed crimes while they have been here. That is not the case. The case of the bill here is that creating a new category will put pressure on the EU; a clear signal will be sent to these countries: now you will take your citizens back, otherwise there will be closed country until you come on better thoughts. Can the rapporteur confirm that it is this and the intention that lies in the proposal, and not an intention to keep out brain surgeons and researchers coming from Congo?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110130353	I can confirm that in any way. We are very pleased with external contributions to the Danish labour market, but we must also note that the immigration policy which has been conducted over the past 30 years has made it clear that someone has arrived. We fully recognise that as things stand now, the visa rules are part of the Schengen acquis, i.e. the Schengen acquis. that it belongs to the European Union, and that is why, of course, we have also made clear in the legislative proposal, in the interests of due diligence, that this is about the government raising the matter at a so-called JHA meeting, that is to say, a meeting of the European Council of Ministers, and it should actually be quite simple. Already by just asking for it to be put as a point at the Council of Ministers and having a discussion with the other countries, the government would have lived up to this proposal, but not even that one wants to or dare.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110130447	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110130449	Now I'm new to the Danish Parliament. The Danish People's Party has been sitting here for many years, and you have better experience of how this is done here. My feeling is that there are a number of parties which say to many of the proposals that come forward that this is a very good idea and yet vote against. This means that you actually use a rhetoric • also among the people where you say one thing, but when it comes to which button to press, you vote something else. Can the rapporteur confirm that the opinion I have received so far is shared by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110130528	After all, I am not going to stand here and be a political supporter of souls, and I think that this is an inquiry that the voters themselves should carry out. But the rest of us can help by putting things together. It is the case that, unlike the European Parliament, where I served the last ten years, you can actually see here in the Folketing how politicians have voted. Down there it's a little messy, sitting around, raising your hands, etc., but here you can actually see it, and I think that's quite good for the people.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110130558	Thank you. Then there are no further comments. Sir. Jens Rohde, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110130611	Thank you. The Minister has, of course, explained very well all the practical problems involved in this proposal. What characterises many of these countries is that they do not care about their citizens. So why should they even take notice of such an initiative? I don't think that has much effect. I can then say to Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt, that I believe, in fact, that the presence in the Left in relation to the proposals of the Danish People's Party has increased considerably since I left the Left, because there is no bulwark against the influence of the Danish People's Party any longer in the Left. That's the problem, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. There is no liberal bulwark. Now that I'm here talking about being liberal, I just have to say that I didn't know that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt was a full-on socialist. It is, of course, the expression of a collectivist thinking, so that the thoughts almost go back to President Mao's cultural revolution in 1966 when it is believed that the individual is responsible for the actions of his government and state and that the individual must be punished for this. That is an expression of total collectivism. I have to say a little about the fact that it is not very far from the extreme right to the extreme left if you take the straight line and bow it up in a circle that some theorists like to do. So I'm a little puzzled by the fact that sir... Morten Messerschmidt, whom I actually regard as a citizen and, incidentally, with a liberal and in other areas of conservative outlook, may think of cultivating collectiveism to the extent that he does in this proposal. As I continue to regard myself as a fundamental liberal, and so is the Radical Left, we cannot support this proposal, both for practical and fundamental reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110130843	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt. Brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110130846	Thank you, President. Now I am quite sure that the rapporteur is much more involved in Mao's atrocities than I am. So I'm gonna leave that reference. But if I have to accept the premise, I would like to ask the question: is not the whole visa system an expression of collectiveism? The fact that some countries are then placed in categories 5, 4, 3 and so on also has a consequence for the individual. So now Mr. Jens Rohde, with all the Communist scorn in the world, chooses to thunder against this proposal, is it an expression that the Radical Left is thundering against the whole collectivist visa system?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110130926	No, because it's not collectivistic. For a practical assessment of the visa application to be made must be taken as a starting point. What the Danish People's Party says is that in all cases it is rejected on the basis that a country does not behave as we think it should behave. I do not think that can be reasonable from the point of view of liberalism.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110130951	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110130953	Yes, but it is still the case that in the other categories there are rules which are different. I guess for a radical you're not a Dane and a Congolese and a Nigerian, you're just a human being that's what Rousseau thinks, right? If you are lucky to be born in a country of Category 2, it is a coincidence, and I suppose it should be for Mr. Jens Rohde be totalitarian, that you have to submit to such coincidences?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110131023	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110131025	It stands for sir. Morten Messerschmidt's very own bill, and that is a strong simplification of that discussion. Because it is not the case that we do not recognise the nation state. However, we have never said so, at least not in the time I remember that one does not recognise the nation state. We do that on the basis of the reality there is. But from there and then to impose such a total embargo on the individual on the basis of the atrocities of a state, in terms of how we think they should behave, we think is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110131100	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110131110	Thank you for the floor. The rapporteur says that it is socialist to hit the individual in a country because the country as a state does not behave as we wish. Does this mean that the Radical Left is not in favour of sanctions against countries that do what we do not want them to do? economic sanctions, trade sanctions etc.? Does this mean that the Radical Left is not in favour of such sanctions? Or does this mean that the Radical Left is in favour of such sanctions, but does it not mean that it affects the individual citizen of a country, that one does not trade with that country or otherwise impose sanctions?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110131157	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110131159	Sanctions must be introduced very carefully. That is our line. In fact, we are very sceptical about sanctions as a means, precisely because they often hit the wrong ones, and we do not want to do so. That is why we are here, for example. I am glad that, with the sanctions imposed on Russia, we have tried to be very precise about who it is that you are hitting, so as to avoid hitting the population as much as possible. So, no, it can be a necessary remedy that you pull up, but you have to be extremely careful how to use it. That is precisely what the difference is, because we do not accept that we are simply making such a totalitarian thing as that we are doing this to the individual person, who has no responsibility in many of the countries in which they live, for whether their government is taking back exorbitant citizens or not. And then we say: under no circumstances, whatever the nature of their visa application and the purpose of it, it is not possible to get here. It's totalitarianism, and yes, we don't like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110131309	Mrs. Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110131311	Is not the truth that this is a matter in which the objective, that is to say, to get foreigners who no longer have the right to reside in Denmark out, is not weighed as high for the Radical Left as the objectives one has when imposing the sanctions that the Radical Left itself has helped to vote for? Well, isn't that the truth? The fact that we have illegal immigrants, the fact that we have criminal foreigners that we cannot get rid of, really means less for the Radical Left than everything that has been sanctioned by other countries and, of course, everything else has to be said to have affected citizens who may have suffered under it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110131350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110131351	No, Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Let me stay here in those more existentialist considerations. There were two great existentialists earlier in history, both of them on the left, convinced Communists, Jean Paul Sartre and Albert Camus. After all, Albert Camus was poured out of the Communist Party because he did not believe that the end justified the means. Jean Paul Sartre did. He did not mean that we should tell the history of Hungarian refugees in Western Europe, because then we could disappoint Belancour, as he said it was the Communist trade unions in the French auto factories. That is the difference: whether you believe that the end justifies the means in every respect or whether it does not. In that sense, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and Mrs Pernille Vermund Jean Paul Sartre; I represent Albert Camus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110131437	Thank you. And we move on to Mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110131502	The motion for a resolution we are debating here is, of course, that an absolute rule must be introduced whereby, as is stated in the comments, no visa may be issued to nationals of countries whose governments refuse to accept their own nationals if they are sent out as rejected asylum seekers. In the view of the Enhedslisten, mixing apples and pears is because what does the fact that a government refuses to accept its own nationals have to do with the fact that people in Denmark, including people with Danish citizenship, may have a perfectly understandable need to receive visits from family and friends from a particular country? The authors of the Danish People's Party state in my and Enhedslisten's opinion very naïve hope that citizens affected by the strict visa practice will, as it is written, put pressure on the authorities of their own countries so that they will again start receiving their own citizens. Unfortunately, many of the countries we are talking about here are not exactly model democracies, and it is therefore naive to think that they will listen very much to what Danes who are not allowed to visit or rejected visa applicants say to them. The Danish People's Party wants an absolute stop to the issue of visas to citizens from certain countries. An absolute stop means that a visa must be refused, even in situations where the issue of a visa is in the interest of Danish industry or the Danish state, or if, for example, there is no visa. is a prominent artist. One particular difficulty with the proposal is that the proposers imagine that citizens from the countries concerned should be prevented from obtaining visas, not just for Denmark, but for the whole Schengen area. Firstly, it will probably be difficult to get all Schengen countries on the idea of the Danish People's Party, and secondly, if it does not succeed, it will still be possible to enter Denmark on a Schengen visa issued by another country; Schengen visas apply, as you know, to the whole Schengen area, not just to a single country. It is a mistake for states to fail to fulfil their obligation under international law to receive their own nationals. States must, of course, do so. However, it has hardly improved Denmark's negotiating position vis-à-vis countries such as Iran or Iraq, which refuse to accept their own nationals when they are sent out under compulsion, that the Prime Minister has recently stated that certain Danish citizens suspected of foreign warrior activity have not even implemented urgent legislation, so that foreign warrior suspects administratively can be denied citizenship without judgment. That is why it sounds rather hollow when the government and the right in other contexts try to have both rejected asylum seekers and foreign offenders sent to their home countries when we cannot even receive our own citizens to have them convicted for the atrocities they have done. The Enhedslisten cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110131815	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110131819	Thank you. Does the rapporteur not recognise that there is a difference between whether a Syrian warrior arrives at Copenhagen Airport on his own, and then we accept him or whether we simply do what we can to prevent him from actually arriving at Copenhagen Airport? Because that is precisely what underlines that what the rapporteur says is not true. We'll take people we'd rather be free of. That is the problem here. Unfortunately, many other countries do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110131845	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110131847	I do not think there is any significant difference, understood in the sense that when we have a legitimate desire for people who have been denied their asylum to be received by the countries where they are nationals, then it is hypocritical and double moral when we do not want to receive Danish citizens here, who have committed possible crimes in Iraq, by, for example, they know. has fought for the Islamic State for them to be convicted in a court of law here in Denmark. Well, we're saying you have to accept all your citizens. And then we say to other countries: No, you should not send Danish citizens to us so that they can be convicted of the crimes they have committed in your country. It is obviously hypocritical and double moral.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110131929	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110131931	I can't see the hypocrisy. We welcome the people who come here, whom we are obliged to accept in relation to the international rules of the game. We do that without blinking. The difference here is that the countries we are talking about in connection with this resolution do not accept their own citizens. And those we are talking about here that we accept are people we would have liked to have lost, but we are still doing what we have to do according to the rules. And that is the contradiction with the countries we are talking about in connection with this motion for a resolution, where there are many of us who agree on intention but then judge the means differently. So I do not recognise that this is hypocrisy. And I would like to ask again: can the rapporteur not recognise that these are two different situations? We accept, but the countries we are talking about today do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110132017	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110132018	Quite frankly, I think that this is an extravaganza, because if we are to have an asylum system that works, we must be able to distinguish between those who have the right to asylum and those who do not have the right to asylum. And those who do not end up obtaining asylum, even after having gone through all the complaints bodies, must then be received by the countries from which they come. And then it is a huge loss of credibility on the part of Denmark when, at the same time as we want those citizens from other countries to be withdrawn if they do not obtain the right to asylum, we say that Danish citizens do not want to receive it here. Well, that's the way it's being seen in the world. It is a huge loss of credibility that Denmark cannot find a way of getting its own citizens home so that they can be convicted of possible crimes they have committed, for example. by fighting for the Islamic State.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110132104	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110132107	Thank you, President. Well, I understand that the rapporteur would like to have Syrians in Denmark, and that is probably something on which we will not agree. Peace be to it. But there's something I just can't understand. If you think that Denmark should bring in Syrians here, why is it that you are not also willing to vote in favour of proposals that can oblige other countries to withdraw their rejected citizens? That's a weird double standard. Why will the Enhedslisten provide more lenient conditions to countries such as Iran, Iraq, Congo and Myanmar and Somalia than those they want to apply in Denmark? I don't understand that at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110132148	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110132149	One may well have the view that the Danish People's Party has here, namely that Danish citizens who go out and fight for the Islamic State, and such as. have been taken prisoner and detained in the Kurdish territories and in northern Syria, the Kurds must then just lie and mess with, while standing on the front line fighting the Islamic State. You can have that point of view. I regard this as a deeply unsympathetic view. I also see this as problematic, because it prevents people who have committed possible crimes from coming to Denmark because they have fought for the IS and are being prosecuted for the atrocities they have committed. In addition, I think that in my speech I explained very carefully why the proposal is not linked. I also explained that if you are to have an asylum system that works, it obviously requires that if there are people who end up being denied asylum, even when you have been through all the complaints bodies, then it is clear that those countries where those people are citizens will have to receive those citizens. It is also part of their international obligations. This is what international law is like. And so it is the case that a number of countries do not want to receive citizens who have been repatriated. That is a problem because they should actually do so. That is, of course, the basis of the whole asylum system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110132308	Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110132309	It is just that, if you are elected to the Folketing, it would be good if you had a solution to the problems you can see. Of course, you can just sit back and say that there is nothing we can do about it. But it may be a rather poor message to your constituents. So now that Enhedslisten's rapporteur comes to the conclusion that there is a problem with those countries that do not want to withdraw their rejected citizens, and you will not vote for the proposal that the Danish People's Party is making, and you will not, as I understood it, take foreign aid from those countries that do not cooperate, could we just hear a little about what the Enhedslisten will actually do?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110132343	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110132344	Those countries must accept their own citizens. Iran and Iraq, for example, will: do not accept their own citizens. Pressure must be put on them. It must also be done to provide advice to the people who are here and who do not want to go home. It must be advice, not from the authorities that have rejected them, but it may be from independent organisations that can provide independent advice. It may also be the case that a cash subsidy can be granted in order for people to have an economic opportunity to return. It was, in fact, a principle that we helped to make an agreement on back in 2012. The similar changes that have been made through the files of the Committee on Finance since then have been supported by us as well. So there's plenty of things you can do. However, the proposal made here by the Danish People's Party does not solve the problem and it is a very rigid approach, as I also explained in my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110132440	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we need a new rapporteur. Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110132457	The table seems very high today, or is it just me who's low? You can lower it, there's the button). Perhaps you could see the rapporteur, thank you. Good. After all, this proposal has been turned, back and forth, the practical things: Schengen, the European Union, more aid. So what else can you say? Of course, this is a problem we are all aware of, in other words, that there are countries with which we do not have a cooperation agreement. But this is not new, and much work has been done on this in many circumstances, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also had their own people traveling around the countries in order to be able to send people home. As we see it, the problem with this proposal is that we should punish collectively. We are against this as a bourgeois party, so we should not punish individuals. We will also be punishing the democratic forces which have to sprout in many of those countries and which could otherwise help to overthrow the despots, as Mr. Messerschmidt said. There is also a problem when we look at the list. Some countries are now mentioned, but as far as we can see, India is also on this list. It will certainly hit our business community to a great extent. There are more Danish companies that actually have more Indians employed than Danes. That would be problematic. It could also hit us back the other way, in other words hit our business community in relation to our increased trade. On the other hand, we believe that we must look at it within the framework of the European Union. It could be that there in the European Union we should look at the overall aid and not just the Danish aid, which may not be the one that means the most in all modesty, even though it is certainly important and strategic as it is. However, if you are collectively involved in this under the auspices of the European Union, you will have a lot more powerful levers to lift. In relation to Schengen, it should also be borne in mind that a country which is also part of Schengen, among other things. Switzerland is, of course, Switzerland, and this will also limit many people from being able to travel to Geneva, for example. to the Human Rights Council, where they have just to present the human rights situation in their own countries. This might also be a restriction as a result of this proposal. So we have to vote 'no' on the assumption that it both penalises the individual and can hit our business community particularly if India is on this proposal and that is not the remedy we need to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110132739	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110132741	Now we heard again this argument that it should be such a particularly collectivistic one. I think it was sir. Jens Rohde, who used to have the same thought. I have to ask, then, whether the sanctions that the European Union has applied to, for example, those sanctions? Belarus and Russia are also an expression of collectivism, and whether the Conservative People's Party is therefore no longer behind them from today's date.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110132801	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110132802	Maybe we'll mix things up. After all, we are talking about visa rules for individual travellers. It is not the case that Russians cannot travel to, for example. Denmark and into Schengen. After all, we have the categories we have in order to be able to grant a visa, as I am informed, so frankly I do not understand that comparison. Maybe sir. Messerschmidt can clarify that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110132824	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110132827	I'd love to. I understand that the argument against our proposal is that it will hit some people unfairly hard, who have no lot and share on the occasion, that is, ordinary citizens. But that is exactly the same thing as the sanctions against Belarus and Russia and all the other countries to which the EU applies sanctions have consequences. Lots of decent, honest citizens in Russia cannot come to the European Union today because they have chosen to impose sanctions. I therefore do not understand why, on the one hand, the Conservative People's Party can say that it is a good thing to impose sanctions on Russia, but that, on the other hand, it is an expression of a collectivist, despotic way of thinking when we in the Danish People's Party want to do so to those countries which do not want to accept their rejected citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110132908	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110132909	Thank you. We believe that we should look at this in a collectivist context within the European Union, but not use our Schengen, as this is going to hit very badly. The basis for setting up a trade embargo against Russia in the case of Ukraine, I would not say one can compare with that here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110132933	Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110132935	Frankly, I do not think we are getting an answer to that, sir. Morten Messerschmidt asks, and that is why I have asked for the floor. Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll says that this proposal cannot be used because it is a collectiveist instrument. But all sanctions are collectiveistic measures. All sorts of random people in Russia who may think Putin is a bad politician and should not be in charge of it will then be affected by the sanctions that we have because of Crimea and Ukraine. So do Conservatives now have a new attitude to sanctions?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110133007	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110133008	We do not have a new attitude towards sanctions. I can't be smart about exactly what the visa rules are for Russians if they're not allowed to go to the EU at all. But that would be the consequence, as I understand it. But I'm gonna have to do some research on that myself. I don't know exactly what that is. However, we certainly have an ongoing opportunity to travel and a dialogue with Ukraine and further into Russia. Is what I understand the questioner is saying that no Russians are allowed to enter the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110133038	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110133040	The rapporteur raises a fundamental debate on collectivist instruments and rejects collectivist instruments. Sanctions against a country are a collectivist instrument, whether it be in relation to a visa, to buy salmon or anything. And that is why I just have to ask: is the Conservative People's Party on the way to a new attitude to having sanctions at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110133100	No, we're not. We are still sticking to sanctions, but we do not like this list here, which will have been laid down in relation to visa rules. To make a special category we think we will be very, very difficult to get through Schengen and cooperation. Schengen and European cooperation in the field of visas already have a rather strict visa application policy that follows and is in line with developments in the security policy situation in general, and we will support that. Nor do we believe that we can lift this through Schengen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110133131	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110133133	Now I ran right back to my chair here, and I don't know if the alternative will come on. However, following on from what is being asked here and which is also leaning on what I asked Mr Beazley. Jens Rohde about earlier, it is not because we are talking about visa rules and the other sanctions that are against countries that are doing something that we do not like. But this is some kind of sanction. In other words, introducing a category 6 in the visa rules is a sanction against countries that do not want to withdraw their own citizens. It is a sanction against countries that are doing something that we are very concerned about, that they should not do or that are not doing anything that we want them to do. That's why, sir. Henrik Dahls and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's question on the general position of the Conservative People's Party on sanctions is quite relevant. The Conservative People's Party thinks it's okay to sanction just not when it comes to this case. Is that correct? Sanctions can be used; we just cannot use sanctions in relation to visa rules against countries that do not want to withdraw their own citizens. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20200110133243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110133246	It is true that we are in favour of sanctions where it makes sense, but we do not believe that it makes sense in this way through Schengen cooperation, namely to have to invent a new category 6 and, above all, we do not believe that it makes sense when we look, as I said, at countries such as India, which are on this list and where it will hit our industry very hard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110133304	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110133307	And so one has to understand that it is more important for the Conservative People's Party to get this brain scientist of a congone to Denmark than it is to get rejected and expelled foreigners back to their home countries. If you want to use sanctions for Ukrainians, while you do not want to use sanctions for the sake of the Danish people, who would like to be free from sharing countries with people who are not welcome here, then it says a lot about the policy of the Conservative People's Party in general, but especially and specifically about the relationship of Conservatives to sanctions. You will not use sanctions when they can save us so that we can get rid of migrants and foreigners that we do not want here, but you would like to use them in an international context to look after people in other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110133356	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110133357	That is not correct. I think that perhaps Pernille Vermund was absent earlier when I said that there are other instruments that we think are much more important, and that is precisely to see if we can see, for example. can use the EU's large-scale muscle of assistance. And the European Union also has representatives in these countries. There you can go in and do quite other things that will be much more effective with countries. We are not in favour of going out and finding a new visa sanction in relation to Schengen. We also say that it will limit them, for example. to come to the United Nations in Geneva and stand before the Human Rights Council, where they have to explain what the situation is in their own country. And there are some options. That is why we will destroy it if we send it across that road and then we do not believe that we can lift it through Schengen. We do not want to go out and be the banner leader on this issue in the European Union. We have confidence in the system that exists, and in Category 5 we can, of course, deal with the applications that should be made in that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110133452	Thank you, and there are no further comments. So we move on to the next rapporteur, who should have been the alternative, but they are not present, so we skip them and move on to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110133513	Thank you for the floor. I shall begin by saying that I was not absent. I stood here waiting for it to be my turn as it should be, and as I am sitting quite a long way from the platform, I had to run back to my seat to ask the question, as I listened to the lack of answers that came to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and Mr. Henrik Dahl. A number of countries in Africa, the Middle East and Asia received at least 385 million in 2019. kr. in humanitarian aid. Nevertheless, the same countries have refused to cooperate with Denmark to receive rejected citizens from the areas mentioned, citizens who, moreover, are often rejected asylum seekers and criminal foreigners. The National Police can tell that 12 countries are currently refusing to cooperate with Denmark on forcibly sent asylum seekers. Six of these countries receive humanitarian aid from Denmark. It is Iraq, Iran, Sudan, Congo, Syria and Myanmar, according to Altingen from 19 August 2019. It is a grotesque situation that Denmark itself has put itself in: that we send hundreds of millions of Danish tax dollars to countries that then won't take their own citizens, often rejected asylum seekers or criminal foreigners, home. It's an insult to the Danes. It is directly indecent dealings with Danish taxpayers' money, and I find no sense at all in the fact that the box for these visa-related countries has not been slammed in long ago. It goes without saying that, if they want to receive Danish development aid, the countries subject to visas immediately partner and have a cooperation agreement with Denmark to receive their own deported citizens. Development aid can easily be used as a means of exerting pressure on these reluctant states. In addition to the six countries receiving aid, the following six countries are refusing to establish cooperation agreements: Kuwait, India, Azerbaijan, Cuba, Angola and Uzbekistan. It makes very good sense to put an ultimatum on these countries: Get a cooperation agreement with Denmark to receive your own citizens after they have rejected their asylum applications or committed serious criminal acts. If this requirement is not met, Denmark will reserve the right to refuse all visa applications from the 12 countries mentioned. This right and fair demand will certainly force the 12 countries to negotiate a cooperation agreement on a basis that will, of course, mean that they will have to receive their own citizens in the future. The demands for a cooperation agreement can easily be made within the framework of the Schengen Agreement. This said, we support the motion for a resolution tabled by the DF, B 37, calling on the government to explore in the circle of Schengen countries the possibility of introducing a new group of countries 6, in which countries which consistently refuse to receive their own citizens are placed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110133826	Thank you. There are no comments. We move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110133835	Thank you for the floor. Every year there are countries that refuse to allow their own citizens to enter, and that can be described in many ways. One can say that it is bad style and one can say that it is unwise in the name of reciprocity, and then, in a certain sense, it is also a de facto circumvention of the stateless Convention if one has signed it. Because if you have citizenship in a state that refuses to grant an entirely elementary civil right, that is to be able to enter your own country, then you are really stateless. What we mean in the Liberal Alliance is that one should, if I may say so, tighten up the penalties for de facto making one's own citizens stateless. Firstly, it is a problem of international law and, secondly, it leaves many countries, including Denmark, with citizens on tolerated residences, and it is also an injustice that we must try to put an end to. Today it is virtually impunity to act in this way, and that is something that needs to be changed. What lies in the proposal here from the Danish People's Party is stricter sanctions against countries which de facto make their own citizens stateless, and I should like to add a comment to that, not least to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll of the Conservative People's Party, but also to Mr Katherina Ammitzbøll of the Conservative Party. Jens Rohde, if he had had time to attend the negotiations. If you go into the Foreign Ministry's list of countries that we already have sanctions against, that list is so long that you have to sit with your mouse in your hand and scroll to get to the bottom of the list, and in all cases where we have sanctions against a country, the principle is the same: you have to pay more or less arbitrarily in this country for Denmark or the European Union not to like the behaviour of that state. That is the principle of sanctions, and if you turn the aid from the developing countries into a country that does not want to cooperate with nationals, then you certainly hit random people too. After all, it is not only the decision-makers in the countries concerned who benefit from development aid; it is also quite ordinary people who need a midwife or whatever it may be, as I myself have seen during a stay in Uganda, where I have seen how our help works. That is why it is hypocritical to say from one end to the next that precisely the sanctions proposed by the Danish People's Party are in a particularly odious class for themselves. Sanctions are sanctions, and they always work in the same way, namely that more or less random people are affected because we in Denmark or the European Union are dissatisfied with the behaviour of the State concerned, which makes its citizens stateless or whatever it is. As far as this proposal is concerned, we will be voting yellow to it in the form in which it stands, because if you go ahead with the proposal, we would like to have a closer discussion on exactly how strong the stricter sanctions should be. Because, as I said before, there is, of course, a very long list of countries to which we have sanctions in advance, and we are always very, very seriously considering how these sanctions are to be applied in a proportionate way, and of course we would like to have a more detailed discussion of the proportionality and appropriateness of the sanctions. However, we do not reject the proposal, because sanctions against countries that de facto make their own citizens stateless and leave other countries with problems in the form of, for example. In other words, we must have more sanctions than they already are. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110134246	Thank you. There are no comments, and that is why it is now the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt, with a speaking time of five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110134256	Thank you, President. To begin with, I would like to thank Mrs Pernille Vermund for her support and the partial support of Mr Vermund. Henrik Dahl and then say that this is one of the proposals where you will be able to really feel the consequences of the parliamentary election we had last year's Constitutional Day. I think, to be honest, that a great many of the voters who, as you know, chose to put their cross somewhere other than next to the Danish People's Party had the impression that when it came to foreign policy, the way we approach this whole area, one got the same thing by voting for the Social Democracy or on the Left. That is why we have a situation today which is significantly different from the situation just over six months ago, namely that we have a government which has changed the rhetoric from the 1990s, but which has not really got the whole organisation involved in what is being said and which is therefore primarily dependent on some of the most extreme socialist parties. Until the parliamentary elections we had a situation with a Left, a Conservative People's Party, a Liberal Alliance in government, who doesn't exactly love this kind of proposal either, but with a strong Danish People's Party, which bite by bit, meter by meter, could push so that we still got in the right direction. So in this way the debate we have had today is, of course, very illustrative of the choice made by the electorate on 5 June and the consequences of it. The question that should be asked, and which I think a great many voters are asking, is this: have we actually got what we thought we were buying on 5 June? The fact that the Danish People's Party today can only pattern 16 mandates against earlier 37 makes a difference. The fact that today we have a government which sounds like the Left in rhetoric, but which is entirely dependent on the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Radicals, makes a difference. The fact that we do not have a bourgeois government that is totally dependent on the Danish People's Party makes a difference. That is why we have to be honest and say: no, there will be no change in the rules for the repatriation of rejected and deportees, because the government will have the maximum half-heartedness and will certainly not get the alternative, the Enhedslisten or the Radicals to support it. No, there will be no fewer tax dollars going from Denmark to Iraq, Sudan, Congo and all the other countries that do not want to take their own citizens back, because the government will only half-heartedly and never get it through with the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Radical Left. This is the reality from which we must work today, and there one can almost be tempted to quote Her Majesty the Queen and say: God preserve Denmark. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110134608	Thank you. The debate is over, there are no comments. Can't I?). We're almost done, and it's Friday, so I think we're gonna end. It was accidental). Yes, yes, I have no doubt about that. But there are no more comments, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200110134640	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 14 January 2020 at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website, and I shall also refer to the weekly schedule which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
