ParlaMint-DK_20201119100111	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Finance (Nicolai Wammen): Bill no. L 108 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Payments, etc.) Minister for Economic Affairs (Simon Kollerup): Bill No. L 109 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Financial Activities, the Law on the restructuring and winding-up of certain financial undertakings and the Law on Capital Markets and repealing the Law on Financial Stability. Marie Krarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 92 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on safeguarding and preserving the Danish cultural tradition in public spaces). Alex Vanopslagh (LA) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 93 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the full VAT relief of professional restaurant visits). Ole Birk Olesen (LA) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B-94 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the reduction of corporation tax). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20201119100211	The items listed as No. 1 and 2 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119100226	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? I will have to interrupt the sitting for five minutes, as the thing is not complete. We have to wait.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119100430	The sitting is resumed. Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119100512	Thank you. This amendment is not just about my being prevented from coming up on the platform. In fact, it is something much more serious, and that is that we run the risk that those who are on sickness benefit will be prevented from simply getting the assessment that is necessary to enable them to receive the treatment that is needed and so on. We have discussed this here, and I really hope that those who have expressed interest since we have had the discussion • Dansk Folkeparti, SF etc. What is the problem is that we have extended sickness benefits several times, but what is different here is that you simply lose the opportunity to be entitled to your general extension provisions. What I find to be a pity is that the Ministry of Employment has forgotten what the reason why we are prolonging sickness benefits at all is. The reason why we are doing this is, of course, that sick people have not been able to participate in optimal rehabilitation because of corona, because the treatment guarantee has not been reinstated. It won't be back until the end of the year. There have been several different parts of the employment effort that have been paused. There has also been all this in relation to company practice etc. etc. which has been used to clarify the ability to work. These are typically the things that the group of sick people must go through in order to be able to extend their sickness benefit in accordance with the general extension provisions of Section 27 of the Sickness Insurance Act. 1, from 1 November to 31 January. The reason why it may be difficult to comment on their forecasts for a return to the labour market is precisely that these things have been put on hold. For this reason, I think it is quite unreasonable that, with the above restrictions on both treatment and employment as a sick person, it should now be prevented from being able to re-evaluate the continued entitlement to sickness benefit under the general provisions at the end of the temporary extension period. That is why we have questioned the Minister's reasons for not wanting to change the bill in terms of reducing the administrative burden on municipalities and providing security for the future dependency of the sick people and their employers. After all, this affects employers as well as employers, who have a worse chance of reimbursement than they do the sick. Even if, with the model proposed by the Minister, the municipalities do not have to decide on the right to sickness benefit again at the end of the temporary extension period, this merely gives rise to a new accumulation of cases which are to be transferred at any given time to the job clearance process and thus submitted to the municipalities' rehabilitation teams. It is therefore also a heavy process of processing, and we know from surveys that the municipalities already find it difficult to comply with it within the time limit of the four weeks. So, in addition to moving towards legal certainty for the sick, it is also really short-sighted if we do not vote through these amendments. In addition, it is also our view that it will give a much greater benefit and give less uncertainty to the sick person concerned that he knows that he actually has a chance to extend his sickness benefit at the end of the temporary extension period. And then I think you should think that it is not only the sick people who are affected by the fact that sickness benefits stop after three months, when there is no re-evaluation, because this also affects employers, who would normally be able to receive sickness benefits. If an employer knows that the sick person is moving to a job clearance with resource progression benefit in three months' time, then there is a risk that the employer will choose to terminate the sick person. So there is a fairly large difference between being able to get a refund of just over 19,000 kroner. per month in cash sickness benefit and then DKK 11,500 if the sick person is transferred instead to resource progression allowance. So, those of you who have an interest in looking after the employers who are particularly financially constrained in these coronatides, I think I should vote in favour. And for all of us, who hopefully care about people who are sick and where it is already a chaotic situation because of corona to have legal certainty for these people, I really hope that you will vote in favour of our amendments. And frankly, it's just as much for the sake of the municipalities and the case workers, because other than doing it this way is short-sighted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119101013	Thank you. We just have to remember to avoid direct indictment. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? There isn't. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119101026	Before starting the vote, I would ask each one to check that the correct name is in the voting panel. Is that so? It seems that we can start the vote. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of new citizens)? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (Enhedslisten), joined by a minority (Alternative). The vote is over. In favour of voting 10 (EL, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 78 (S, V, DF, RV, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 8 (SF). The proposal has been rejected. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 4 of a minority (Enhedslisten), joined by a minority (Alternative). The vote is over. In favour of 10 votes (EL, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 80 abstentions (S, V, DF, RV, KF, NB and LA) 8 abstentions (SF). The proposal has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 8 and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119101226	Sir. Hans Andersen wants to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119101245	Thank you. We said at first reading that we would give our opinion on this proposal for a directive at second reading. We have received a number of answers in committee to some of the questions we have asked about: when are there operational considerations that allow an employer to ask an employee to be tested? And when are there health-care arguments that you can also ask an employee to be tested? We have received an answer to that question. We have also moved the sunset clause from 31 December to 1 July. We find that satisfactory. It must then be assessed when we reach 1 July, when hopefully we are once again corona-free and therefore no longer need this legislation. We find that we have found a balance. That's a difficult issue. That is a far-reaching proposal. But we also think it is necessary. There are a lot of things in this bill that will enable us to work to prevent the spread of infection in the individual workplace. We support that about. There are also a large number of companies, which are crucial for them to be able to document to their customers in the world that they work in a corona-free environment. Therefore, also this opportunity to ask employees to be tested. Against this background, we shall vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the Minister for Employment and against the amendments tabled by the Enhedslisten. We will also vote in favour of the bill when we come to the third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119101431	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119101439	Thank you for that, President. This draft law, L 102, on covid-19 tests of employees, is not as simple as it seemed at first reading. At first reading, the Danish People's Party was in favour of it, for who will not normally be tested if you have symptoms? Then you want to find out if that's what you're missing. So our approach to it was from the beginning that we thought it was fair enough that you could have your employees tested. We still believe that it is fair enough that employees are tested, but the more we dive into it, the more critical we became, and this also meant that when we had a committee meeting on Monday, there was a call for consultation. Christian Juhl was kind enough to call for consultation before I did so, but it was irrelevant, because we agreed that we should have a consultation and delve a little more into what was behind this proposal. Then, of course, we were asked a question about the legal position in relation to other legislation, i.e. the constitution and other things, and then we got an answer that according to the 1996 Health Information Act, as I read it, it is practically possible to agree with the employee organisations that you can have the employees tested. There is practically the same thing that could be done under the Health Education Act if it were implemented here. It was a wish from employers that they should just be able to say: we would like to test all our employees whenever we want to. And it was also said that it was for the sake of foreign workers, but according to a law in the field of justice which entered into force on 2 October, I think it was, nobody can enter Denmark without being able to show a negative test. Then, of course, there are the foreign workers, the migrant workers who are already in the companies, but as far as I am aware, no foreign workers will be tested in this regard. The large companies in Denmark have some good employee representatives and employee organisations, and they make agreements to test in the abattoirs, at Arla, and where it can be. When you look at what this law should be different, the Minister says in his speech to the consultation that some of what is new about L 102 in relation to the Health Information Act is that reference is made to the authorities' recommendations, guidelines and rules as a crucial element in when testing to prevent the spread of infection, and that it can be said that in this respect L 102 is a reflection of what the authorities are reporting on measures to prevent the spread of covid-19. Then you also start to think that the measures taken to prevent the spread of covid-19, the government, to put it mildly, has not escaped well from the past for a while, if you think back to the scandals that have occurred in connection with covid-19, for example. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission is not in a position to take a decision on this matter. So if it's to support the government in the actions they're doing that aren't very lucky, it's that I'm getting off. Then that is not what we need to do to ensure that. Then I think that we should rather look at how the health education law works today and how the employee organisations feel about it in the workplace. That is also one of the reasons why we support the Enhedslisten amendments, because it is actually some good amendments that make the law better. The Minister for Employment himself has also been out to say that there should be more employee representation in cooperation, interviews and agreements with employee organisations. And if I remember correctly, the minister also said at some point that it may be I'm wrong, and then of course I'll accept that it's something with 99.9%. of the employees who would normally say that they would then like to be tested. I haven't met anyone in my day-to-day life who, if they're sick, says they won't be tested. I have not met anyone who, if they have a colleague who is infected, would say that they naturally want to work with the colleague on a daily basis. No, they would say: " Stay at home, then; go home until you are well. ' They don't want to go there and get infected. They'd say the same thing if it was the flu... you wouldn't want to go with somebody who's infected. And those who are infected would rather find out if it's covid-19 or not. It may well be that some people do not like it, but as I said, the more we dive into this legislation, the more unnecessary we think it is, and the more we think this legislation is to shoot grey sparrows with cannons. I therefore believe that employers should be able to find out with their employees, that is to say the test. That is why the Danish People's Party will vote in favour of the Enhedslisten's amendments and we will vote in favour of the Minister's proposal to change the sunset clause, but we will vote against the overall proposal. We cannot support a proposal which we consider unnecessary and which goes too far. And as I said, if it's to live up to the government's strategy for covid-19, then we've gotten off a long time ago with the game we've seen here over the past month's time or the last 2 months; it hasn't been very well organized. So the Danish People's Party votes against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119102115	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119102120	Thank you. I have been advocating for a long time that we should step up preventive action against corona at work, because I think it has been an overlooked area. But that's not what this bill is about. It is about the employer's right to test, the right to demand testing and the right to obtain the results of the tests. It is also about employers now being given a new right, namely that they can dismiss people if you do not allow yourself to be tested. Something new that has emerged during the negotiations, and which I was not aware of, is that employers can also demand the results of old tests carried out by an employee of their own motion. I do not know what the point of this is, because an old test has no significance in a current situation. There it is, of course, the current situation, in terms of whether you are positive or negative, that is interesting, and not what happened 14 days ago or 1 month ago. This is a very, very far-reaching bill, as Mr. Hans Andersen said a far-reaching bill, which means that we shoot grey sparrows with state-of-the-art missiles. It's totally unnecessary, we can just chase those birds away. We have ways of doing it today. We have the law, and we have the extremely exciting and strong thing in our labour market model that agreements are made on it. I would also like to repeat what the Minister said there: 99.9%. That is why it is a rather violent and far-reaching legislative proposal. Hans Andersen on the board and therefore I do not understand at all that he will bring such a bill into operation when it is not necessary. In the view of Enhedslisten, the law and the duty of the bill to the employees are not at all proportionate. It is very, very one-sided, in which we go back on the development of the rights of the employer. In my opinion, the tests should be used in particular to document to export customers, for example. China that there is no infection in a slaughterhouse. It is even if the abattoirs so far, through professional voluntary testing agreements, have fully met the needs. If preventive action had been involved, the draft law would have been completely different, and we would have bet that preventive work at the workplace would have been strengthened. That's not the case in this bill. There is still an enormous need for this. And the Minister has not demonstrated that the contract system in the workplace has shown its inadequacy to carry out this task. In addition, there is the fact that in society, for example. in North Jutland, not used coercion. There we say there are calls for testing and self-isolation. We don't start with coercion, like we do in this bill. L 102 is essential to the democratic principles and rights of representatives of confidence and health and safety at work in the labour market, thereby weakening the effect of the law if it is to be what it was all about. It is much better to make a voluntary agreement where everyone is committed to resolving it than to force people to do something. In the debate, the Minister rejected proposals to balance the law, except for the sunset clause, which he will amend from 31 December to 1 July. It would be sensible to allow it to follow the epidemic law, but leave it alone. The Minister has also made a single addition during the last two days of negotiations, namely that in companies with works councils, i.e. in companies with works councils. the large companies with 35 employees, it is okay that the employer should be obliged to cooperate with the employees for a test. This is a real improvement, but why on earth has the Minister not taken the step fully, so that the small jobs also work together with the employees on these matters? It's a scandal. L 102 is particularly inadequate if prevention of infection is the primary purpose, but exports to China are not the most important thing either. In our amendments, we have made an attempt to prevent or balance the weaknesses of the legislative proposal if that is to apply. I will mention the points where we have tried to do so, so that I do not have to comment on each of the amendments that are. I am sure my colleagues can read within, but I will draw it up here: the employer can decide to a large extent only whether a test is objectively justified, when it should be carried out and how often a test should be carried out. The employer is not obliged to involve the shop steward or the occupational health and safety representative in companies with fewer than 35 employees, and most of them are, as you know, in Denmark. Here alone he or she has a duty to inform the employees of the decision on testing and can fire people who do not follow his or her dictation. Employers and solo selfemployed persons at work are not obliged to be tested. That's crazy. If the employer himself is a superspreader, he is not even obliged to be tested. Fortunately, we have established that employers from other countries should be tested on an equal footing with workers. Employees may not require a test themselves if one or more colleagues have been in contact with an infected person. It would make sense if you sat in the cafeteria and heard someone say: On weekends I was with some family, and they've gotten infected, and it's a tough round. Then it must be the case that colleagues of their own motion can say: we want a test at work. The small dish alone has been rejected. We have proposed it a few times during the course of the proceedings. Why on earth can one not have it in a modern democratic society where one also has a bit of democracy in the workplace? This bill does not focus on preventive work at the workplace and on housing conditions for migrant workers. There is still a task to be solved, which is huge and which is more important than if an employer can force one to a test • much more important. It focuses solely on the employer's right to require testing, and tests in themselves do not reduce the infection. In particular, it makes a strengthened preventive effort, where testing can be a small aid along the way to clarify what the situation is like. Preventive action is the most important. The Minister has recognized this as well, and he has said that it is not going to be included in this bill. It is sad and we really need to run in the preventive work. Then the bill does not incorporate a guarantee against firing if an employee is tested positively. Just think about what that's gonna mean. If an employee is tested positively, I think that the person's life just comes on standby, that you reflect a little over life for a moment. And then you have to know that even if you tell the employer that you have tested positive, there is no guarantee that you will be fired. It is quite grotesque that the employer is not actually prevented from firing a person because of a positive test. The latter, as I mentioned earlier, is that the employer can even require employees to submit test results from tests previously taken by the employee on his own initiative. I hope you can understand both what Mr. Hans Andersen says, and what Mr. Bent Bøgsted says this is very far-reaching. The bill is not proportional. It doesn't really help in this situation because we have the Health Act, but it gives employers clear rights to dictate things at work, and that's not what we need now. So I would urge you to vote in favour of the amendments that subdue this draft law, so that, after all, we will have a law if it is to be implemented, at a level where it also has a bit of democracy in it at work. If we do not, we will not be able to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119102942	Thank you. There is just one comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119102947	Thank you. I would just like to say that I fully agree that preventive action is important and that it must be given priority and that it is urgent when we look at jobs. I am also thinking that it is difficult to see the company that would just set up a test regime without there being a reason for it, because it is really a comprehensive system. But we actually know about the obsessive test thing in advance. We know this in the care of the elderly, and we know this in the hospitals. I would just like to ask the rapporteur if it could be imagined that it would be okay for an employee in the care of the elderly or in hospitals to refuse to be tested in a situation where serious consequences actually arise if it is the case that you come as an employee and are infected at your workplace.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119103031	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119103032	First of all, it is important to say that there has to be a factuality, a duty for the employer to argue why you have to do this test. It shall be the case that the employee may object. You can do that, for example. in the public sector. There's no problem with that. We know the law on health, and we know how it is used in daily life. There are opportunities to do what the rapporteur for the SF says, so why should we build a new regime into a law on this? Because that has nothing to do with the health of the employees. This has something to do with exports, and that's where the bill goes wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119103110	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119103113	There must be proportionality in what is being done, and it is therefore also good that the respective works councils should be involved in discussing these matters. However, it is not necessarily about the health of employees, if you as an employee do not allow yourself to be tested, when you have to work with vulnerable and sick citizens, it is really about the patients and the citizens you have to take care of and their health if you refuse to be tested. After all, there are examples of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119103148	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119103152	Well, I haven't heard of examples yet, where people refuse to be tested, and in those cases I think it's pounding unsolidarous and irresponsible. But I think we can best do this by the shop steward or the health and safety representative, who is not involved in jobs with fewer than 35 employees because they do not have a works council. In these cases, the problem could be dealt with dynamically, and I know that this has been done in slaughterhouses, and I have examples of this that have been done in the public sector, that a friendly conversation has actually been made with the person concerned and said: this is going to hurt the patients, it is going to hurt the children in kindergarten, or where it can be; we will not accept that. The way it is done is ten times better than an employer who dictates it. I don't know if you can hear any drums now. The more dictation and coercion we build into this, the more resistance we get, and therefore we have to work dynamically with this. That is why I am glad that SF says it should be proportional.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119103249	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor and that is why the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119103257	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL) joined by a minority (DF and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote is over. In favour of 18 (DF, EL, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and 2 NB (by mistake)), against 72 (S, V, 2 DF (by mistake), RV, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 8 (SF). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL) joined by a minority (DF and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote is over. In favour of voting 18 (DF, EL, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 80 (S, V, RV, SF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (EL) joined by a minority (DF and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote is over. In favour of voting 18 (DF, EL, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 80 (S, V, RV, SF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4 member of the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (EL) joined by a minority (DF, NB and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote is over. For voting 21 (DF, EL, NB, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 70 (S, V, RV, KF and LA), abstention 8 (SF). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 6 of a minority (EL) joined by a minority (DF, NB and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote is over. In favour of voting 21 (DF, EL, NB, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 77 (S, V, RV, SF, KF and LA), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 7 of a minority (EL) joined by a minority (DF, NB and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote is over. In favour of 21 votes (DF, EL, NB, ALT, Susanne Zimmer and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 78 abstentions (S, V, RV, SF, KF and LA). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 8 of a minority (EL) joined by a minority (DF, SF, NB and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote is over. In favour of 29 votes (DF, SF, EL, NB, ALT, Susanne Zimmer and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 69 votes (S, V, RV, KF and LA), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 9 Acting by a majority (S, V, RV, KF and LA)? The proposal is adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119103706	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. For system reasons, we need to log you off the voting system. When we start the next meeting, you need to re-log in with a code. It would be appropriate if you took the same place in the next meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held today at 2 p.m. 10.50.
