ParlaMint-DK_20201104130002	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Tax Minister (Morten Bødskov): Bill no. L 74 (Proposal for a Law amending the law on remuneration, pensions, etc.) for ministers. Bill No. L 75 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the temporary postponement of declaration and payment periods, etc.) in the field of taxation in the context of covid-19 and the law on interest-free loans corresponding to declared VAT and payroll tax and accelerated payment of tax credits, etc. in connection with the covid-19. Peter Seier Christensen (NB) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 75 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the elimination of subsidies for organic farming) and motion for a resolution No. B 76 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of a labelling system for halal-certified meat). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Agenda item 1, extended Question Time with the Prime Minister, and item 2 of the agenda urgent question to the Foreign Minister about the situation between the EU and Turkey following the assassination of a teacher in France (F 14) is deleted from today's agenda. I shall then inform you that the following questions are removed from today's agenda due to the self-isolation of the Ministers: 1) to the Minister for Finance (pm. No. S 202 by Eva Kjer Hansen (V)), 4)-14) to the Minister for Health and the Elderly (pm. No. S 44 by Peder Hvelplund (EL), S 47 by Rasmus Jarlov (KF), S 85 by Jane Heitmann (V), S 167 by Per Larsen (KF), S 179 by Liselott Blixt (DF), S 182 by Karina Adsbøl (DF), S 196 by Anni Matthiesen (V), S 180 by Liselott Blixt (DF), S 181 by Jane Heitmann (V), S 183 by Karina Adsbøl (DF) and S 199 by Anni Matthiesen (V)), 28) to the Minister for Employment (pm. No. S 194 by Hans Andersen (V) and 32) and 33) to the Minister for Culture (pm. No. S 175 by Kim Valentin (V) and S 176 by Stén Knuth (V)). At the same time, I must inform you that Questions 15 and 16 are on the agenda (pm. No. S 168 and S 169) to the Minister for Transport by Michael Aastrup Jensen (V) is deleted at the request of the author. I should also like to inform you that Questions 23 and 24 (pm. No. S 190 and S 193) to the Minister for Industry, by Louise Schack Elholm (V) is deleted at the request of the author.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104130136	The first item on the agenda is the reply to questions forwarded to the ministers. The first is for the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply of Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104130149	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104130204	Thank you. What impression does it make on the Minister that the mayors of Herning Municipality, Holstebro Municipality, Ikast-Brande Municipality, Lemvig Municipality, Skive Municipality, Struer Municipality and Ringkøbing-Skjern Municipality write in an open letter that the government's proposal to close down the broadband pool will leave municipalities' citizens and companies in a digital vacuum?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104130206	The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104130207	Thank you for the question. It is my position and that of the government that all citizens and companies throughout Denmark should have good coverage. That's why I'm glad that as much as 94 percent. of Danish homes and companies today have fast broadband, which actually means that we have the EU's best telecommunications infrastructure. But, of course, that is not enough and we are not there yet. That is why I can also agree with the mayors that no one should be left behind in what they seem to call a digital vacuum. I believe that the roll-out of telecommunications infrastructure in Denmark should, to a large extent, take place through market roll-out. I actually think the questioner agrees with me on this. When the government in the Finance Bill has chosen not to allocate funds to the broadband pool, it is mainly due to the historically high rate of private roll-out in these years and, of course, to the fact that corona has meant that we have to make tough priorities. The latest figures show that the telecommunications industry invested 8.6 billion. kr. in telecommunications infrastructure in 2019. That is an increase of 23 per cent. In the light of the above, the Commission concludes that the measures in question are in line with Article 107 When the broadband pool was introduced, private investments were at a much lower level. We now see that market roll-out also spreads to peripheral areas that we had previously thought would not be offered fibre networks on market terms. At the same time, the Danish Energy Agency has recently prepared a projection of the market roll-out, which estimates that up to 99 percent. Danish homes and businesses will be covered with fast internet in the mid 2020s. With this in view, I believe that, in the current Corona situation, where tough priorities need to be made in public finances, it is sensible to wait for the massive market roll-out that will reach almost all Danes in the foreseeable future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104130343	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104130345	Thank you. The evaluation referred to also shows that there is a large group of citizens in the vicinity of 15,000, as far as I remember, as the Danish Energy Agency also today says they have no idea how the market will help in 2025. It could be a group of citizens to whom these mayors refer. 342 applications have been received, comprising 9,000 addresses, 90% of which are available. of these addresses are in the land zone area. These are applications for a total of 220 million. kr., i.e. less than 50% which can be met. In order to apply for the broadband pool, there must be no prospect of rollout plans in the same area within the next 3 years. Does the Minister really think that it is reasonable that we should do nothing more, that is to say that we are actually doing less by removing this broadband pool, that is, the hope that this group of addresses, which has only been looking for this year, have to get the Internet properly for the next many years? Does he really think it is reasonable that, at a time when everyone is more and more dependent on the Internet, a broadband pool which is their hope of getting the Internet within a few years is being removed?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104130459	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104130504	So, if we look at how things have gone so far, it is actually the case that so far there are 90,000 eligible addresses that have obtained fibre under market conditions. That is to say, addresses which could have been applied for, but where the market itself made it. I am thinking that Denmark's Liberal Party cannot completely disagree with the fact that if the market can do things, it may be a little unnecessary for the public to go in and spend money on it. Of course, I could also be tempted to ask: Where would the money come from? I think the Left has said in the past that it is fair to point to funding when there are proposals?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104130550	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104130551	So in other words, I have to understand that the Minister thinks it is okay that there is a residual group of approx. 15,000, who, when we get all the way to 2025, as we make projections with the Danish Energy Agency, still won't have a proper internet connection. I just want to know if the minister is okay with that, and if he doesn't think we need to make some moves to help this group.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104130610	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104130612	I could say there that if the questioner had listened to my first reply, he would not have been able to conclude in that way. All the words that the questioner has just put in my mouth are probably no reason for me to reject them. Of course, we have an ambition that everyone should have access to fast broadband in Denmark. It's self-evident. We have no ambition to necessarily support something that the market itself will manage. And, by the way, we are still waiting to see where the Left intends the money to come from. No financial bill has been tabled by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104130644	Here's the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104130645	Thank you for that or whatever to say. So I would like to ask a slightly broader question: does the Minister have any plans at all for how we can help this target group or the many citizens who are not going to be included in the application round we have now? Does he have any initiatives on the drawing board that we have not seen yet, now that he removes the broadband pool, that is, initiatives on how to improve the roll-out of the Internet in our country forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104130711	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104130712	Well, first of all, fortunately, a lot of this is going to happen because of the huge investments that are being made in these years under market conditions. And, of course, in relation to the places where it can be done on market terms, it is just good, and everyone should be happy that we should not spend public money on it. It is clear that, when we find ourselves in a situation where the market can no longer reach its final destination, we in the conciliation circle must, of course, take initiatives to reach them. It's just pretty hard to say exactly what kind of people it's gonna be yet. But of course we are happy to listen to all the ideas, and it is also usually the case that once we sit next to each other in the rooms, we can also find each other there. So I hope that happens this time too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104130751	We thank Christoffer Aagaard Melson. The question is over. We will continue with a question to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply, but now the questioner is Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104130759	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104130800	Thank you for that, President. It is a short question which says: what will the Minister do to ensure that much more commercial waste is recycled?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104130810	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104130811	I am very concerned that companies have an optimal framework for getting rid of their waste and contributing to recycling. That is why I am also pleased that the evaluation that has taken place shows that, in general terms, the market has assumed responsibility for the recyclable commercial waste since it was transferred to private operators in 2010. For example: the evaluation showed that 97-100%. the waste producers consider that it was easy to dispose of the waste. In addition, the recycling of commercial waste is currently high, i.e. approx. 75% That is why the picture of the company to which I think the questioner refers, which appears from the background material, is not immediately an image that we can nod to. Of course, I do not quite know the specific case, and you are very welcome to come to the Ministry with an official request, and we would of course like to look into it more closely. At the same time, I can also inform you that, with the latest agreement of 2020, we have just opened the way for smaller companies with small amounts of waste to choose the municipal collection system. It will make it easier if problems arise, which I think is a very good escape with what the questioner is asking for. In addition, the agreement also means that a new model should be drawn up for the Waste Inspectorate, which includes: ensure that undertakings comply with the requirements for sorting waste. And the agreement also imposes strengthened requirements for the separation of plastic waste in the industry, so that it can be sent for recycling instead of incineration. I therefore believe that the adjustments we have made with the waste agreement will be able to meet some of the challenges mentioned, and it will also lead to more recycling. However, as I said, I would like to call on specific companies to turn to the Ministry. If there's anything we can help drill them, we'd be happy to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104131004	Sir. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104131005	Thank you for your answer. What is the challenge here and it is true that I have also sent some background material to the Minister is that when you look at the inquiries I have received, you can see that it seems completely gakgak. There has just been an agreement that the citizens now have ten different fractions to sort out. And here you can see a relatively large company, it is REFA Energy, which is a waste company that addresses itself and says: we have a challenge in relation to Lolland-Falster and South Zealand; there is no private player to accept commercial waste, which is source sorted. What then happens is that the company looks at its bottom line and asks: How do we get rid of our waste? They can then turn it into mixed waste, because then they can hand it over to a municipal company. What then happens in the municipal company is that you look into the container and say: There is some waste here; we could sort that out and use it for recycling. We all agree on circular economy, but the company must not do so, and they must not do so in relation to Chapter 14 of the Waste Order. That is why I have just one question in relation to these cases where one can face such a situation here in Voivodship Denmark. After all, it is the employees who are frustrated about it, because they want to be part of the green solution, and they want to do something for the environment. Now, in fact, they are seeing many tonnes of waste that they do not burn off, but are actually digging down because that is what the law requires. There is the question, and we should not point to anyone, because it was a broad agreement that was made to liberalise it; the Danish People's Party is also part of it, but this was not the intention... we should not have done anything about it in cases where it has turned out that it is best to hand it over in this way in relation to the business case for the individual trader, but where it is the environment that loses? Shouldn't we have made some exceptions?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104131137	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104131138	It is certainly not my impression that this is a general problem, but it does not mean that we should simply turn a blind eye to where there may be problems. I would very much hate to see that, too, I think the questioner understands how to stand and handle matters down here in the Chamber, since, as far as I know, we have not received a direct request from the company either. But if we get it, we'd love to look at it. If this is a major problem which we think we should address in the conciliation circle, I am also prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104131210	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104131211	But doesn't the Minister think that's a problem? We also see it with used mill wings, because there we can see that they are being dug down in some places, even though there are actually companies that can recycle them. It is the law that does so because the municipalities are not in the same way as the private ones because they liberalise it... they can recycle commercial waste. But they cannot refuse to accept it. So the Danish People's Party agrees with the intentions of liberalising it, but there are just some places and some corners of the legislation where it has to be said that the political intentions have not been fulfilled. Does the Minister not agree that it is gakgak that the municipal companies dig recyclable waste into the ground when we could actually use it for recycling?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104131251	Thank you. Then we get answers from the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104131253	I am not quite sure that I would use that exact expression, but of course I am certainly not interested in things going on out there that are contrary to the objective. On the contrary, I am interested in recycling as much as possible. I believe, in fact, that, firstly, we have a fairly well-functioning system with the old agreement, in which the Danish People's Party is also part of it, and secondly, I believe that it will be strengthened by the new agreement that we have made here in June, and of course there will also be some time for implementation there. But, as I said, there are problems we can do anything about, and I am very open to looking at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104131325	Sir. René Christensen for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104131328	Well, I would actually like to sign for that answer, and I also hope that after this I can go up and write a nice e-mail to the Secretary-General and ask about a meeting where we might find out how we can solve this, so that, when we are about to sort out ten factions, the people do not wonder why we should now when we dig down several tons of waste elsewhere. So thank you for the answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104131346	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104131347	I can promise both a meeting and coffee on the pitcher.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104131354	The question is over. Thank you, sir. René Christensen, and also thanks to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply. Then we move on to a question to the Minister for Transport by Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104131443	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104131451	Thank you. How will the Minister ensure funding for the IT support system for future drone regulation presented by the Minister on TV 2/Fyn on 23 October 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104131455	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104131456	Thank you for the question, first of all. This is of course a very interesting potential, which was originally identified by Naviair, a development potential for creating this management system. The development of such a drone traffic management system is the key to making use of the climate benefits of drones in relation to traditional air traffic. There are many exciting perspectives in it, so when I participated in the inauguration of the system on Friday, October 23rd it was literally with cuttings of string, between two drones of course I just got a little insight into the drones' great potential. For example, the drones can ensure the rapid delivery of blood tests or vital medicines, thus making treatment for patients even better than today. It is therefore also important to me that there is a future solution in relation to the development and further financing of the system. It was previously assumed that the State company Naviair alone would be responsible for the project, but it is the case with the current situation in the aviation industry that Naviair does not currently have the possibility to bear the costs of development. Air traffic is, after all, generally in a very severe recession. Therefore, a solution must also be found to the financing of the system, so that Danish companies can exploit the potential of the drones. And that is also why I have asked my official to look into the possibilities of such funding. The work is ongoing, but it is clear that there could be several different options in play. One thing, of course, is that one could well imagine that it would be state funding, but one could also imagine that it would be partly state funding, that is, that there were also private players involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104131618	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104131619	Thank you. It is of course interesting to hear, as I did on TV 2/Fyn, the minister standing and talking about precisely the perspectives of this and how exciting it is and what opportunities there are. It is, of course, a central part of literally getting the Funen drone industry to fly, because right now you can't fly drones that are further away than you can actually see them from the ground. And you'll actually be able to use these systems to transport everything from blood to human beings to everything else; this system will make that possible, so the prospects are great. I would say that I was a little surprised when, in the context of the negotiations on the research reserve, I was unable to get a clear answer as to the status of the drone and robot strategy, which the government has come up with less than a year ago, on how this should now be financed. It is true that I am told that Naviair, who should have financed it, has some problems. So I'm offering that we out of the 300 million. kr., we were negotiating last week, could have taken 32 million. kr., which is what I've been informed this system will cost, out of the pool we sat and negotiated, for research. But we could not; I was told that it was a solution to be found at the Minister's office, in the minister's ministry. That's why I get a little worried when I hear that you're going to start looking 'cause this is something that needs to start right now. In other words, when the Minister also stood on television a week ago and said that it is important here that this is the prerequisite for us to move forward, that this is the prerequisite for a great many of the things that are being set in motion in terms of research, for example. in relation to agricultural development, where the use of drones is quite obvious in terms of minimising the use of spray poisons and, incidentally, watering right and a lot of other things, then we need a quick solution. Then there is no point in starting to look for plans for it. That is why I would like to hear: when does the Minister expect us to have funding on this so that we can actually move on and get started?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104131820	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104131822	I am, of course, particularly pleased that the questioner says that the Danish People's Party will come up for negotiations with a desire to do so here. If that is the case, that is something you want to discuss, for example. Of course, in the case of infrastructure negotiations or other matters, we are also very welcome to come up with such a wish. As I have said, I have asked my official to investigate various options, and that is because what was originally intended, namely that it would be something that could be dealt with within Naviair's own economy, because of the dramatic change that has taken place in the aviation sector, is no longer possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104131859	Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104131901	Does this mean that there are currently no concrete plans to move forward with the system that the Minister was not even presenting on Funen television 14 days ago? Does this mean that the work is stalling, that Naviair will not make any progress on this until funding has been found at some point in the future? I think that is almost obscene when last week I was unable to get the government to agree to find the funds when we were negotiating 300 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104131937	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104131938	This is because the situation has developed as it has done, and it should not be mistaken that the fact that Naviair has developed this air management system is quite unique. Denmark is the first country in the world where you have a system of this caliber, which is also in operation. So it's not like we're gonna lose something here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104132008	That's the last question. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104132010	Then I will have to get a very clear answer to how far you are with the system and what the plan is exactly now. Because it is true that in this area we are very well in relation to developments and to the rest of the world, but it is also an area where things are going very fast, and that means that if we wait a year, we risk being overtaken inside, and that is really, really stupid when the minister says that we actually have the system and that it just has to be tested just and just. What I have also been told by the minister's ministry is that it will cost 32 million. kr. above the next approx. 2 years to get this thing done, so it can actually go into full operation. So can I get an assurance when this money will be found? Is that something that will be included in the forthcoming Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104132054	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104132055	There are many places to raise this question, including places where the Danish People's Party itself has to assume the wish to participate in the negotiations. One could, for example: Imagine that in the negotiations on a future infrastructure investment plan it could be raised as a wish. So I would recommend that consideration be given if this is the case that the Danish People's Party generally cares about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104132119	Thank you, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party, and the Minister. There are no more questions. The next question to the Minister for Development will unfortunately be removed from the agenda at the request of the author. That is why we move on to questions to the Minister for Business of Heidi Bank. I think the Minister for Business is present, yes, so is he, and so is Mrs Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104132156	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104132159	Thank you. I simply did not see that we had come so far on the agenda. There have been some advances today, we have to say. My question to the Minister is: Does the Minister believe that the policy implemented by the government has benefited Danish business and helped create new jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104132223	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104132223-2	The short answer is: Yes. The government has thus implemented tangible initiatives that support Danish industry and new Danish jobs, and we continue to work actively to ensure that the business community can stand strong even when we look forward to it. We believe that a strong economy and a strong welfare society are each other's prerequisites. With good general framework conditions and a focus on the positions of professional strength, we can support the future's industries and jobs from the political point of view. That is why the government is focusing on, among other things: to ensure that we have the right skills in the future, that we can deliver our children in institutions on our way to work with peace of mind, that we can be healthy to do our job and have a strong health service. The government also invests significantly in the future for the benefit of Danish companies, among others. in the field of research, with an extra high research and development allowance, more public research funds. Investment is being made in the green transition with, among other things: The Danish Green Future Fund and the climate agreements, and finally we have proposed spending 10 billion. kr. in a green room for manoeuvre towards 2025, so that there will be certainty about green investment. It is also important for the government to involve business in its work, which is why we have implemented most of the recommendations from the so-called restart teams, which are targeted restarting exports. In 2021, we will resume the dialogue with exactly the same restart teams. Finally, with help packages for many billions of dollars, we have held hands under Danish business and a lot of Danish jobs during the Coronapandemic. This has all helped to hold hands under Danish jobs for a difficult time, and I just think that should be taken into account when we look at the framework conditions for Danish business and to create new jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104132420	Heidi Bank, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104132422	Thank you for that reply. I do not think it makes me much wiser, because what I hear from the Minister for Business and Industry is partly a lot about what you would like to spend money on, that is to say welfare, and we are in fact in common with that, because the Left would also like to ensure that we have a strong welfare, but we are also aware that that money should come from somewhere, and that is among other things. from business. Then the Minister talks about what has been done for business from the perspective of the Corona situation, that is, the fact that we are jointly holding our hands under Danish industry, and we also agree with the government on this is a good idea. But what I am asking the Minister in this way is whether the policy implemented by the government has benefited Danish business and helped create new jobs. What I am asking is what steps the government has taken to ensure that in future we also have new jobs for business and for Danish citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104132524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104132525	We're gonna do a set of parameters. Of course, the most visible and striking thing right now is the corona crisis. We share this responsibility for managing and helping the Danish business community. It means a great deal to the jobs of the future when you increase the research and development allowance, it means a great deal to the jobs of the future in Denmark when you make a huge green future fund to invest in the companies that are going to deliver the solutions of the future. And then it also means a lot to Danish companies that we have a strong welfare society around the companies, which means that you have the skilled and right employees who can take care of the work because the children are cared for and you get out of the hospital quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104132601	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104132602	Thank you. But again, this is about you having two business organisations that are out to point out that there are some challenges. I think it's tiny little trinkets that are being talked about here. Of course, it matters that we can provide a decent workforce to the business community, and that is also why it is important that we have mobility in terms of being able to get labour and get abroad into where we do not have the workforce ourselves. So what's the answer? What further action is being taken by the government to ensure that we can create extra power in Danish business?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104132638	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104132639	Right now, the most acute and therefore the most important focus is, of course, the management of the coronapandemic. And here we go in and make broad political agreements, in which the Left also participates, and I would like to sign for that, because I think it is constructive to do so, where we both focus on keeping our hands under those who are in trouble now, but also focus on the restart of our economy • the forward-looking, export restart agreement, support for entrepreneurs through match funding schemes. So in this way we are helping both acutely here and now to stop the crisis, but we are also laying the tracks for the future business community in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104132713	Heidi Bank with the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104132714	Thank you. Does the Danish Industry and Danish Enterprise criticism get in the article "Danish Business and DI" in a joint call: Now it is enough from the Børsen on 29 October the Minister to reconsider the government's business and tax policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104132732	Okay. There was one more question for the questioner on this question. Heidi Bank I'm the one who jumps to the next? ) Yes, but you do not need to make use of your right to ask another question. Heidi Bank Let's just move on to the next one then, and now I've read it out. So I was the one that was too fast here today. ) Great. We can do that in this way, and I am sure the Minister will, because the Minister is just as quick.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104132747	Then it is the Minister to read the answer to question 20, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104132754	Thank you for that and also thank you for this question. I would say that I do not believe that a good industrial policy can be boiled down to just a matter of taxation for business. I believe, as I said, that a strong business community and a strong welfare society are two things that go hand in hand and are each other's prerequisites, and therefore I just have to say that I do not recognise the picture that taxes should be raised broadly for business in Denmark. It is true that there are certain taxes that have been raised, partly because, as a society, we think it is fair, partly because we can push for a change in behaviour that we want to promote together. We left, for example. in the social democracy for elections on the right to an early withdrawal for those in our society who are worn out and have had a long and hard working life, and to fund it with a social contribution from the banks, because we think it is a fair way of doing so. Together with a broad majority in the Folketing, we have also jointly raised the prices of cigarettes and introduced a number of green behavior taxes so that we use less plastic and the young people will smoke less, and it is, of course, behavioural changes that we would like to see. But we have also come to the business community more directly on other points. As I said earlier, with the aid packages that we have jointly concluded, we have provided grants, liquidity and guarantees for hundreds of billions of dollars, and in this way we have helped to keep up with a business sector that hopefully will now come through the corona crisis and out on the other hand with a country, Denmark, on the absolute front of those who are doing well economically. We have also introduced a high deduction... that could also be called a tax credit for research and development, agreed an export package and made a war fund that can be used to strengthen and also restart the economy and export. So on long stretches I do not recognize the criticism from the article, but on the contrary I think that we are helping the Danish business community.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104132959	Heidi Bank, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104133000	Thank you, and thank you for your answer. Now we are talking about tax increases up to 2025 of 11.8 billion. kr. in Danish business, but leave it at that, because I also know that there will be a colleague who asks about it afterwards. What amazes me is that the Minister, in other words the Danish Minister for Industry, is standing in the Chamber and neglecting the criticism that comes from the country's two large business organisations, two professional organisations representing 34,000 companies and hence thousands of Danish jobs. It is, of course, the business community that must help to hold hands under all the well-being that the Minister then says is almost just what makes business work at all. After all, there is an interaction between these two things, and if you tighten the screw too much, as the government is willing to do, and you do not have enough eyes to see that at least parts of the business community are in a huge crisis at the moment, it is not done with corona aid packages. But there is more to it if business is to be able to generate further growth in the future too, so that we can have the new entrepreneurial adventures, all that must contribute to the fact that we have good educational systems and good day institutions, and that we have a senior pension which not only covers a certain electoral group, but also ensures that other worn-out groups can receive help in old age.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104133134	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104133139	But there is no doubt that we need a strong business community and that we need business in Denmark to do well through the Corona crisis, and that is why we can see that the aid packages we have made together work fortunately. Fortunately, we are below the normal levels of bankruptcy that we see here in 2020, compared to 2019. We see an industry that is actually struggling through this and with the very good help of the aid packages we have made together. So I think it is wrong to neglect the efforts of hundreds of billions of dollars in aid packages for business. Then, of course, there is a continuous question of how to organise business policy in addition, and here I just insist on seeing an interaction between our public and private sectors and not a contradiction.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104133219	Thank you. Mrs. Heidi Bank, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104133221	Yes, and now I'd better remember to take advantage of the opportunity to say something, and thank you for the answer to that. But I do not think it changes the fact that the Minister is slipping over it completely smoothly. It is the two largest professional organisations in the country that are trying to point out that here there are some framework conditions which are not good enough, where you tighten the screw too much without giving any other answers. What I am just listening to is that the Minister is saying that there should not be a contradiction between private and public, and we in the Left fully agree with that. But that does not change the fact that you choose to tighten the screw too much with the private sector, it will later hit the public sector. So what is the Minister going to do? Is the Minister planning to enter into a dialogue with these two organizations because of the criticisms that have been made?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104133308	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104133309	But I am continuously in a dialogue both with Brian Mikkelsen and Lars Sandahl about relationships around our business, and we have a very good collaboration to do the things that are right. I think it is quite natural that, when you are an interest organization, you should also mark yourself on these subjects too, that's fair enough but I'm a little more surprised that the Left is out in the not always so noble art of blowing and having flour in your mouth. One thing is that a number of tax increases are being criticised, but at the same time a number of them have been adopted, for example. the behavior regulating as cigarette taxes, which fill a large part of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104133344	Thank you. The final question to Mrs Heidi Bank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104133347	I just think the Minister is slipping around. Because we are happy that we have been involved in this regulation of behavior in relation to cigarettes, and we are doing so because we believe that the health associated with this is quite essential to the well-being of the Danes. But the Minister doesn't talk about it. In other words, the framework conditions which the two organisations are talking about need to be improved, and it is not enough that there are coffee meetings sometimes. What are the concrete measures the Minister intends to take?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104133418	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104133419	We are continuously presenting concrete measures. Now we have put forward a financial bill with a strong commitment to the green, and I believe that there is a big green business adventure waiting for Danish business, and I see a business that is reaching out to the chance, and which is also there during the Corona crisis, and only praise from me to our business community. I just think that it will be a little cheap when the Left criticises the large numbers in this article, but, at the same time, it is not ready to say that we must therefore cancel the increase in the tax on cigarettes. That is not what the Left has proposed, and I do not think it is going to be proposed either. So the criticism from the Left sounds a little hollow.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104133458	Thank you. The question is over. Thanks to Heidi Bank. We will continue with the Minister, but now it is with a question from Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104133506	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104133507	Thank you. How does the Minister feel about the criticism from Dansk Industri and Dansk Erhverv raised in the article "Dansk Arbejd and DI" in a joint call: Now it is enough in the Børsen on 29 October?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104133518	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104133518-2	Thank you. We're gonna stay on the same street. I believe that, in the first place, it is worth remembering the billions of aid packages made by the government and the parliamentary parties for business. We have just made the help packages to keep our hands under our skilled and adaptable Danish companies. Having said that, I do not recognize the picture that taxes should be raised broadly for business. In selected areas, some taxes and charges have been raised, and this has, among other things, been the case. to finance a right to early retirement with, inter alia: a social contribution from the banks. We think this is fair and we think it is fair that the financial sector should contribute more to the Community. In fact, we went quite openly to the polls. An additional social contribution is therefore absolutely appropriate, so that those who have worn and dragged a long working life now have the right to a dignified withdrawal. Similarly, it makes sense when a broad majority in the Folketing has raised the prices of cigarettes and introduced more green behavior taxes, so we use less plastic and the young people are going to smoke less. The higher cigarette taxes represent almost a third of the tax increases mentioned in the article referred to. The increase in taxation is behavioural regulation and is passed directly on to consumers. It cannot therefore be said that it is the economy that pays here. This also applies to the abolition of parental purchases under the corporate scheme, which mainly affects private individuals in large cities. Nor can it be seen as a business tax. It is important that we create a Danish business community where we work to strengthen the productivity and competitiveness of companies. The government has implemented tangible initiatives that support Danish business and we continue to work actively to ensure that the business community can be strongly forward-looking. We believe that a strong economy and a strong welfare society are each other's prerequisites and not each other's contradictions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104133721	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104133722	Thank you for your answer. It is true that we have made aid packages. It's to solve an emergency situation. I think we in the Left have been in all of them. However, the criticism from Danish Industry and Danish Industry is that the government has not taken initiatives to promote business competition outside the Corona initiatives. No initiatives have been taken to improve the competitive environment of enterprises in a structural way. No initiatives have been taken to make it cheaper to operate in Denmark. On the contrary, the only thing the government has proposed has been tax increases. I think the Minister for Industry answered a question which I believe both Mr. Alex Vanopslagh and myself asked about an overview of the initiatives the government had taken that had made it better to run the business in Denmark. And I think the only thing that freed the companies from trouble and trouble was something that had been relaxed in connection with air purification plants. I think it may even have arisen under the former government. This was the only proposal that the Minister could make after almost a year and a half in government... not a one. And that's what the Danish Business and Danish Industry say about, namely that the government just speaks in fine terms. The Prime Minister said to the Danish Industry Summit, I think it was that we need to find out what the best we can do for Danish business is so that you can keep making money for the whole of Denmark. Yes, it was now you get a government that supports you. In my optics, this is a very strange way of supporting Danish business, when the only thing the government offers in the field of taxation for business is increasing taxes and there are no initiatives to strengthen the competitiveness of companies. Can the Minister mention one specific initiative, which is not corona-related, which has benefited Danish industry?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104133925	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104133926	There are, of course, plenty of initiatives, and I think that what is once again the problem for the Left is that one is guilty of a total one-eyed focus on the issue of burdens or taxes or charges alone in relation to business policy. If you look at the society in which Danish companies operate, it is a society that strengthens them. It is a society that delivers the right competences. It is a society that delivers employees who are flexible and adaptable and quickly there again after they have been ill. In addition, we have created the Danish Green Future Foundation of 25 billion. DKK that invests directly into the business opportunity to win on the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104134006	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104134007	This means that the Minister does not even recognise what is the message from Danish Industry and Danish Businesses, so that it is enough that the business organisations are experiencing a government that is not helpful to the business community and that only comes with new burdens and new burdens. And I simply cannot understand that the level of ambition is not higher for the government. It is incomprehensible to me that the answer to the criticism from the two major business organisations in Denmark, who say that they do not have proper conditions and that the government is doing the wrong thing, is: Well, but they obviously have not really understood it. I think that is a strange approach to criticism in relation to the government's lack of initiatives in the field of business.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104134046	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104134047	But you can just try to go through the points listed in the article. A very large part is about the fact that cigarette taxes have been raised. I am entirely in favour of this, and I believe that the Left is also in favour of it, because the Left helped to do so. That is one third of the so-called tax increases. They have been passed on to the consumer that is why they are made so that the volume of smoking is reduced in our society. Next to that, you just have to remember that helping a business sector through a corona crisis with the efforts we make together • relief packages, liquidity grants, loan arrangements and guarantees • also is to strengthen the competitiveness of Danish business when the corona crisis is over.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104134128	The final question to Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104134128-2	But I just have to say that there are no initiatives; the government has not taken initiatives that have made it better and easier to operate. And I think it is a sad answer that the professional organisations have obviously misunderstood everything and that everything is good. But can the Minister not understand that, for example, when the government proposes to raise the cost of labour injury, this is an additional burden for companies? Can the Minister understand that the bill is not
ParlaMint-DK_20201104134205	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104134206	I am not accusing business organisations of not doing what they have to do. They are organisations of interest and they are responsible for what they must do. However, I accuse the Left of having a completely one-eyed focus on a narrow part of business policy. A genuine and good business policy is concerned about companies on the basis of a global view that they are competitive, the employees they need have the right framework conditions around them, experiencing a society that supports them. And there is the green transition a significant example of a society that supports business to win over the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104134240	Thank you. The question is over. But we will continue with a question to the Minister for Industry, and we will continue with Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104134247	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104134248	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that there is a connection between the government's commendable words to Danish business and the government's concrete actions towards Danish business?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104134256	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104134257	Yeah, I think there is. And I could have stopped there, but I'll try to elaborate on why I think there is a very clear connection. We have a business community in this lovely country that takes responsibility during the corona crisis and has made a huge contribution to the green transition by providing input into the climate partnerships through restart teams, and this is in the general interest of both industry, government and society. Here we in the government have praised the business community and that praise is absolutely right, and I would like to repeat it today. I mean the words of praise and they are consistent with the actions of the government, because we have implemented a number of tangible initiatives that support Danish business and new Danish jobs, and we continue to work actively to ensure that the business community can stand strong, also forward-looking. We believe that a strong economy and a strong welfare society are each other's prerequisites and not each other's contradictions. Our business policy is therefore also more than just a focus on taxes and taxes. It is true that in selected areas we have rolled back specific tax cuts, that we have introduced a social contribution from the financial sector to finance a right to earlier withdrawal for worn-out, and that we have increased taxes on cigarettes and green behavior taxes, so we use less plastic and so young people are going to smoke less. But we have also carried out massive aid packages with a broad majority in the Folketing, where we have set aside a war fund of just over 9 billion. kr., and we have recently agreed an export package of 0.5 billion. kr. We have stopped the savings in education. We have temporarily increased the deduction for research and development and increased investment in research significantly with the establishment of the Danish Green Future Fund. This is all for the benefit of business. All these measures and more must be taken into account when we look at the framework conditions for Danish business and in relation to creating new jobs in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104134500	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104134501	I am, of course, pleased that the Minister highlights some of the wishes and elements that the Left has negotiated into the various aid packages. the EUR 0,5 billion export package; kr. and the temporary increase in the research and development allowance to 130 per cent. We think it is so good that it should not only be temporary, we have actually proposed that it should be permanent, so it might be interesting to hear whether the government is doing the same when the Minister now praises the initiative that was negotiated on behalf of the Left. When I ask the question of whether there is a connection between words and action, I have to say that it is clearly being made clear in this Chamber today. The Minister is talking about a social contribution from the financial sector, it is called tax, and it is not such a thing that it is some nice money to pay, it is tax that the government, like everything else, has just tried to call something that sounds nicer, but it is an additional tax on the financial sector, and it is not because I am concerned about the shareholders of the financial sector. I am probably more concerned about the ordinary Dane who needs a loan or for the company that needs funding, because all experience shows that the rising taxes are putting themselves in prices and then it becomes more expensive to finance. So it doesn't help Danish business either. The minister says the government cares about the companies. I think it was during the opening debate that the Prime Minister was told that she loved entrepreneurs, and that is wonderful. I think there are many of us who do. I just think that there are many who have little difficulty understanding the way in which love is implemented in a way is the government's desire to increase the share income tax, i.e. the tax on investing in entrepreneurs. Then it is that one has difficulty understanding the praise words and the government's alleged attention and love for an area when those words are translated into concrete action and translated into things that are drawing the wrong path. Therefore, I just have to call for a greater link between the nice words and the concrete actions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104134709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104134710	First of all, thank you for pointing out that, thanks to the broad agreements we are making, the Left has good elements in the government's industrial policy. Exactly an important element of the framework conditions that the business community can use is when we can figure out how to do it broadly, that is, when the broad agreements are implemented, because then we can count on them to work. With regard to entrepreneurs, we have made matching funding arrangements and other things, and now the negotiations on the entrepreneurship package will come later in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104134747	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104134748	But the government still has the ambition that investing in entrepreneurship should then be more expensive. We do have a European record in the taxation of investment in companies, and it wants the government to raise. It's kind of hard to see how the pretty words are being translated. This is also what lies behind the criticism of Danish Industry and Danish Business. It is also clear from the article that there will be nice talk about Danish business, that is fine, but when will something help the Danish business community be reciprocated? Instead, it is a criminal act, for example against banks, and then it is called a social contribution, but it is just increasing taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104134826	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104134827	Let's try to dive into the entrepreneurs. What do entrepreneurs experience in the time we are in now, here during the corona crisis? They are experiencing an investment market that is drying out and where investors are increasingly holding back there is nervousness, there is uncertainty in the market. So what does the wise society do? Yes, in Denmark we do it that we go in with a matching system where we say: if you can get private investment in a market that is difficult, then we give it triple on top, and that is a way to keep our entrepreneurs running, because we care so much about them, and because we hope that it is they who can create the jobs of the future, even after the crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104134906	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen for his last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104134907	However, I hope that when we are on the other side of Corona, the driving and fundamental forward direction must be that it is attractive to invest in Danish companies without the state having to come and put money on top of it. That is why I am concerned that the government is not taking any initiatives to ensure that there is more goodwill, more active money that can be invested in our companies and create some jobs, and that is not done by making it more expensive to invest. We are at a towering level when it comes to investment tax on entrepreneurs, and there is the response from the government that it must be even higher.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104134943	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104134944	I can promise the Left that the government is very ambitious when it comes to the fact that it must be attractive to be with our entrepreneurs on the market. That is why we must make the world's best entrepreneurship policy, and it must respond to some of the challenges that we see as challenges in our society, for example. that we must have entrepreneurs who respond to the green needs of the future, to which there are no solutions today, and there must be many more women entrepreneurs. In this way, I am quite sure that we are making it very attractive to invest in our entrepreneurs, it is by pursuing an ambitious entrepreneurship policy and hopefully by a broad majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104135020	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. The question is over. We will continue with questions to the Minister for Industry, but now it is from Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104135031	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104135033	Thank you, sir. Mr. President. How will the Minister ensure that the Region of Zealand will also have a business cluster, like the rest of the country's regions, once the Minister has waived responsibility for the location of the national clusters?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104135051	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104135052	Thank you for the question. You want to say, and now you want to do something completely different. First of all, I fully agree with the questioner that it is very important that the new nationwide business clusters also benefit the companies in Region Sjælland, which is why I would also like to start by just emphasising that all 14 nationwide clusters are obliged to make their activities available to companies across Denmark. And that is also true in the Region of Zealand. The designation of the clusters has been based on what is called an open notice in March of this year, where all interested parties have been able to apply. This is a joint notice, where funds could be sought from both the Ministry of Education and Research and the Danish Business Promotion Board, which is a board of directors of the Ministry of Business. It is therefore the Business Promotion Board which is responsible for distributing decentralised business promotion funds to the clusters, and no applications have been received from Region Sjælland, and none of the clusters that have applied have located their departments in Region Sjælland. Both I and the Minister for Education and Research were unsatisfactory, and in the government we have therefore declared clearly that we want a stronger regional anchoring of the designated clusters in the Region of Zealand. Fortunately, that has been listened to. The cluster for construction has announced that it will have a department in Næstved, and they work for a strengthened representation on Lolland, from which the cluster among others. can support the Fehmarn building. I think that's very good, but it's not enough. That is why I am very pleased that the government and the parties of the Danish Parliament, with the agreement on the allocation of the research reserve in 2021, have allocated nearly 20 million. kr. to Roskilde University, which among other things. will be used to strengthen the cluster collaboration precisely in Region Sjælland. In the government we will continue the dialogue with the clusters and ensure that all clusters live up to their commitment to be exactly accessible to companies across the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104135250	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104135251	Thank you for your reply. Now I do not know whether it is because we are having this debate in the Danish Parliament today that people are standing out in the Palace Square and beating on some big pot lids, but that is at least something we can hear in this Chamber, I would say. In the Danish People's Party we do not share the premise and the reasoning used by the government in relation to the final distribution of these 14 different business clusters. I say this to the Minister because I myself have been involved in negotiating the business promotion agreement concluded under the previous government and with the current government, among other things. the Minister for Research, but indeed the Minister for Industry has also been responsible for implementing it. There is a great deal of surprise about the fact that we have just looked at the business promotion efforts from a general perspective, that is to say that we should see Denmark as a whole, and that we should ensure that there was a regional distribution in relation to opportunities and also efforts to private companies and to entrepreneurs and people who use to ask questions and get advice and guidance, among other things. from the business houses. That is why it is, of course, a declaration of war that you now end up with an amputated system, where one of the Danish Regions is not getting one in five regions, not one of these 14 business clusters. It's bad, it's a wrong decision. And some of that I do not want to blame the Minister for it, but I would just like to be surprised that nothing more has been done to ensure that this decentralized distribution is achieved. After all, the Minister's colleague, the Minister for Research, has said that the Region of Zealand has not applied. Yes, yes, but isn't Christiansborg also responsible for this geographical distribution that takes account of all areas of Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104135458	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104135500	Well, I understand very, very well the concern and the issue that is also being raised, and I am quite sure that this is not what the blows on the pot lids are all about, because I believe that there will be a great deal of support for our business promotion efforts being available and present throughout our country. Availability is about that even if you have a cluster that has a headquarters, it could be in Southern Denmark, then the bets and the activities should be available to the entire country. We must ensure that, and we will follow up on that. Of course, presence is also about placements. That's why I think it's good to see that this cluster for construction and construction has now chosen to create a department in Næstved, and that it is supported at Sjælland by Roskilde University at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104135540	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104135541	I think the arguments put forward by the Minister for Industry are rather strange. What we are asking for is not that there should be subdivisions throughout the Region of Zealand. One of the big cranks was that you could provide qualified advice to all companies in different areas of concern, regardless of where the clusters found their work. That is why it should be 100% reversed in the argument put forward by the Minister, that is to say by saying that there was precisely a reason for setting up a headquarters in the Region of Zealand, which could then lay subdivisions elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104135620	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104135622	I am just afraid that the questioner is going to ask me for something that the questioner's own debate at the time makes it impossible to deliver. It is about the clusters themselves being private organisations, and the decision as to where they place headquarters or departments is one they take. Then there is the Business Promotion Board, which is an independent board of the Ministry of Business, and there you can make agreements about the large framework for the board's work, but not about the specific location of departments. And then it is a legal requirement that the funds for the clusters here should be allocated on application. I understand the wish of the Danish People's Party, but I am not quite sure that I can see the way to how to interfere with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104135705	The last question to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104135706	After all, it is nice that the Minister says that they are all independent. We must remember that many of them have also been appointed by, for example, the Minister and by others. After all, it is people who sit there on behalf of organisations of interest, etc., where political teams have ensured that there should be seats on the Business Promotion Board for e.g. Danish Industry, the trade union movement etc. So the whole thing about just completely disenfranchising it by talking about the arm's length principle, I wouldn't say is the right way to do it. I would say, on the other hand, that what is wrong is that you start to do this by putting on patches and, for example, starting with these 20 million. kr. as such, a kind of patch on the wound in relation to the development between Region Sjælland and the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104135746	Thank you. Then we get an answer from the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104135747	You might call it that, but I actually think it's a lot more than a Band-Aid on the wound. I believe it is a real guarantee that the cluster effort and cluster cooperation in the Region of Zealand can be strengthened. And when you get a department under this cluster for construction and construction that will be located in Næstved and they will also provide a greater representation in the Lolland-Falster area compared to the Fehmarn building, then I think we're starting to have something that can play. On top of that lies the fact that all clusters are obliged to be present with their services throughout the country, also in Region Sjælland.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104135824	Thank you. The question is over, so thank you to Mr. Simpson. Hans Kristian Skibby. We will continue with a question to the Minister for Industry, now put by Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104135827	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104135833	Thank you. We need to get back to the blue, creative corner. On the basis of the announcement by Dansk Erhverv and Dansk Industri in Børsen on 28 October 2020, where they set foot over the tax increase of 11.8 billion. Can the Minister explain, with one hand, why he is handing out aid packages to business, while with the other hand he is stealing billions out of the pocket of the same business?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104135903	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104135904	Thank you for the question. I hadn't heard the creative blue corner before anyway, but we'll be back in the corner. The aid packages, which the government and a broad majority in the Folketing have adopted in several rounds, are, after all, about holding hands under a hard hit business and Danish jobs in an extraordinary situation. Of course, the adoption of important and urgent aid to the economy does not mean that companies should not also contribute to the welfare society. After all, the financing needs of the welfare society do not disappear in a time of crisis, and I see no contradiction between concrete tax measures, which are mentioned, and aid packages aimed at hard-hit professions, and I also do not recognise the picture that taxes should have been raised broadly for Danish business. Some taxes have been raised it is right partly because we think it is fair, partly because we hope to push for a change in behaviour, for example. in relation to young people's smoking. In addition to the aid packages, we have set aside a war fund of 9 billion. kr., we have recently agreed an export package of 0.5 billion. kr., we have stopped savings in education, we have increased the research and development allowance, and we have significantly increased investment in research, among other things. the establishment of the Danish Green Future Foundation, all of which benefit Danish industry. So, overall, I think that the government has done a lot, and I can promise that we will continue to do much good for the Danish business community. A tax increase, of which large items come from increased cigarette taxes and an increased social contribution for the financial sector, cannot in any way be considered to be stealing from the business community, as the questioner says, while hard-hit companies receive a much-needed helping hand through aid packages. I think it's a false contradiction to stand up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104140058	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104140059	Unfortunately, I believe that the Minister for Industry and perhaps also some colleagues of the Minister for Industry in the government are the only ones in this country who think that the government and the Minister for Industry are pursuing a business-friendly policy that creates good framework conditions to ensure growth, jobs and prosperity in Denmark in the future. And you can't just sweep out such a serious call from Danish Business and Danish Industry and say that it's because they don't understand that you're pursuing a business-friendly policy. So there has to be something about the talk and, as I see it, we are in a situation where we in the country really do not have a minister who is a minister for business and wants something good for business. We have a Minister of Business in name, but not for good. There have already been tax increases for 12 billion. kr. The government has announced that there are more coming. Efforts were made to get more tax increases into the Arne Agreement. Surely there is not a single initiative that makes such a real, noticeable difference for entrepreneurs. It is the first government since Anker Jørgensen has no ambition to make labour supply reforms. And when you ask the Minister of Industry in writing what economic incentives the Minister of Industry has made to make it cheaper to operate in Denmark you get the answer that one initiative has been taken in a whole year, namely the Order amending the Order on the safety of electrical installations. In other words, a decree amending another decree is the most business-friendly initiative on the economic side of this government. Can the Minister of Industry not see that one should of course take it more seriously when the business community says that things are going the wrong way and that there is indeed a need to make it cheaper to operate in Denmark and to create some changes on the long track that make Denmark more competitive, also on the economic issues?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104140235	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104140235-2	I myself, and the government in general, have a continuous good and constructive dialogue with the Danish business community on concrete measures to help our companies. Right now we are in a coronapandemic where we have succeeded in bringing Danish society and our economy through the first wave of the crisis as some of the absolute best at European level. I think that is worth noting, because in the end it is also about the fact that we have an industry which, after the corona crisis, is competitive, wins orders on global markets and can create new jobs in Denmark. We support that with the help we do these months.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104140316	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104140317	Let me ask you another way. If we ignore the announcement to amend another decree on electrical installations, does the Minister of Industry have a single bid for an initiative that the Minister of Industry will launch to make it cheaper to operate permanently in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104140333	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104140334	Well, we have lots of initiatives to support Danish business. We have created a future fund of 25 billion. kr. We have extended the temporary increase in the research and development allowance. In the new year, we will be talking to the Danish export restarts on new recommendations in relation to moving exports forward. So, of course we do. I am afraid that in the so-called blue, creative corner one is guilty of not being relevant to Danish business to the extent that one has been in the past because one eye focuses on a single part of the framework, while a true business policy of course looks broadly at how companies are set.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104140413	Thank you. Sir. Alex Vanopslagh for his last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104140415	In the traditional and creative blue corner we have nothing against foundations, restart teams and research deductions, but that is not what the Danish business community is calling for. And if, to use a little academic expression, you have to have a holistic look at things, that is to say that you look at it in a holistic way and think that we have to do something good together for the competitiveness of Danish industry, yes, you also have to make it cheaper to operate in Denmark. There we have this so-called Minister for Business and Industry. I do not think that we have any real Minister for Business in Denmark. And the only initiative that has come from your side is an announcement that has to change another announcement about electrical installations. So I ask again: is there a single concrete initiative on the part of the government to make it cheaper to operate and start business in Denmark in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104140451	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104140452	But that is simply not true. This is simply not true and may be a sign of a lack of dialogue with the Danish business community, when it can be said today that the Danish business community has not demanded an increase in the research and development allowance. It has been a very great wish. It is a concrete effort which makes it cheaper to operate, but which in turn also holds hands with some companies who, in the crisis, for example. Our hearing aid industry has had a really, really difficult time. So already there you have a concrete example of a very good action. I could add the Danish Green Future Foundation to the whole corona effort. Overall, it is a government that wants Danish business.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104140532	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh. The question is over. We also thank the Minister for Industry. There are no more questions for the Minister of Industry. Then we move on to a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, which has been asked by Mr. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104140542	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104140545	Does the Minister consider it reasonable to separate a five-month-old child from his mother without any consideration of the child's need to be with his mother?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104140601	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104140602	Thank you for the question. Two written questions have also been put on the specific case to which I am sure the honourable Member refers, and those questions have been answered in writing on Monday. As the written replies also show, I do not really have the opportunity, as a minister, to go into specific cases which are being dealt with in the Foreign Affairs Council or in the Foreign Affairs Council. That is why it is getting a little boring on my part today, and let me briefly explain why: firstly, it will put the authorities in a situation where questions about their independence or objectivity or objectivity can be raised if I go into specific cases, for example in the Chamber of Parliament. Secondly, I believe that it is essential for the legal certainty of citizens that the authorities treat each individual case objectively and objectively according to the rules adopted in the Folketing and not according to which cases have been covered in the media. In this way, the procedure should not be affected either by my political views or those of other ministers. In addition, I assume, of course, that the questioner agrees with me that we cannot, of course, stand here in the Chamber and pass on information about specific people. Having said that, however, I have of course also seen in the media that there has been a coverage of a specific case, which is the specific case to which the questioner refers, and of course I fully understand that the family is in a difficult situation. However, as a minister, I have the expectation that the authorities will examine the matter in detail and that they will decide this matter, and of course all other matters, in accordance with the rules adopted in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104140735	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104140736	Of course I have that expectation too, which is why I have asked the question in general. For I have seen many cases in which a small Danish citizen is told that if he or she wants to live with his or her mother or father or with both parents, and it is in Denmark that he or she has citizenship yes, then he or she will just have to leave Denmark. And it is also in this case and in other cases that a little baby has been told: Well, if you want to live with both your mother and father, you must go to another country. It's a little weird, I think, when you're a citizen. And in this case and in other cases, you can see that psychologists, people who know something about children, say that it is a really bad idea for a child's upbringing to separate parents. That is why I am asking whether the government could not start looking at these rules and look at the fact that when small Danish citizens happen to have a mother and a father from two different countries, why it is then that you cannot have your parents in the country where you have citizenship. Why wait until, according to the rules in force, you are eight years old? Because it seems that you have independent ties, as it is called, and then you can have your parents in the country. Why can a little baby, who, if anything, needs his parents, not be allowed to be with them? Could we not create a regulatory framework that takes that into account?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104140903	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104140905	Well, we had a major discussion in the last assembly, or was it in the previous one on the basis of a girl named Mint. And following that discussion, it ended up with us actually changing the law. The entire Folketing, from Enhedslisten to New Citizens, eventually voted for new rules for family reunification with children. I think these are good rules, and we administer them now too. And it is clear that if the Foreigners' Board is aware of the fact that there is a child in a family reunification case, it must of course be taken into account, and the child's best interests must be included as part of the assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104140939	Thank you. Andreas Steenberg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104140940	I understand that there is an international judgment that children are entitled to their parents. It is also a judgment in this case, and I would ask the Minister to reply to that: is there a change in practice in the field of foreigners, which takes account of that judgment and thus ensures that children have the right to live with their parents in the country in which they are nationals?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104141008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104141009	Well, we also manage in the wake of what I think I remember as the Chavez-Vilchez judgment, and as I also remember having explained in the Parliament's Committee on Europe, in relation to what the consequences of that judgment are. We also manage it after in Denmark. And as I also said before: If the authorities are aware that there is a child involved, it may also be a future child, then of course it must be administered in addition to it. And this also means that the best interests of the child must be included in the assessment of whether to grant either a procedural residence or a residence permit in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104141042	Sir. Andreas Steenberg for his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104141043	Thank you for that answer. I very much hope that this will change practice. In this particular case, the person has not been able to take his Danish exam because Danish teaching and exams have been closed down because of corona. This leads me to ask the government in general: could some of these demands be suspended for a period of time because people simply cannot live up to them because things have been shut down because of corona?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104141111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104141112	Subject to the fact that I do not know the situation in the specific municipality on which this particular case is concerned, I would say that it is true that in Coronaland it has had consequences for Danish education in many parts of the country. And we have also decided, following on from the decision that it is not possible to hold tests everywhere in the country, to give the opportunity, for example. when seeking family reunification, and it may also be other things one seeks under the Aliens Act, that there must be an extended time limit to meet the test requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104141148	The question is over. Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg, and also thanks to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. The next question (pm. No. S 76) is to the Minister for Housing by Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti, and co-author is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104141202	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104141204	Thank you, President. Will the Minister comment on the article "Afterward couples live in constant fear of violent overboys from Frederiksborg County Newspaper on 8 October 2020, and what is the Minister's position on the Housing Farm's handling of the matter, and does the Minister not believe that a Housing Association should terminate a resident who has been sentenced to violence against another resident in the association?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104141228	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104141228-2	First of all, I would like to say that I am both upset and saddened when I read about how a married couple live in insecurity because of a resident who has been convicted of violence against the man and who is continuously harassing them. My clear position is that if a tenant acts violently against another tenant, even at the same height, and is judged for this, the housing organisation should, as a general rule, pursue the termination or termination of his lease by the injured tenant. The legislation contains several tools that can be used against tenants who exercise physical violence or otherwise override good practice and order. For example, the specific tools may be to cancel or terminate the lease, to make the lease conditional or to give a warning. Furthermore, the landlords have an obligation under Article 80 of the General Rental Act to ensure that there is good order in the property and, if necessary, to cancel the lease, which may happen when the tenant has failed to comply with good practice and order and the relationship is such that the tenant's removal is required. On the basis of the information in the article, including that the Houseyard 31 times requested extra cleaning of the couple's door, I am surprised that the obvious harassment of the couple is no longer actively sought by the Houseyard. Neighbouring disputes are always unhappy and often also have muddy circumstances, but both parties, for example. complaints, does not relieve the landlord of the previous liability and obligation. In conclusion, I would like to point out that a work is currently under way which aims to make it possible to obtain a faster postponement from their homes of criminals convicted of special circumstances, so that the security of other residents can be increased.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104141402	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104141403	Thank you for that and thank you for your reply. After all, it is good to know that there are new rules on the way, which hopefully will make it easier to expel criminals and terminate criminals from leases and such things. But there is the dilemma in the fact that the rules can be quite so tough and consistent and clear, but if they are not managed and used out in the housing associations, it is one great thing. And, as I understand it, the fact that we have the opportunity to resort to tools that the Minister mentions and which the Minister opens up to be more is not, of course, an obligation for housing companies to do so too. There we in the Danish People's Party would like to see, specifically in relation to Mr. and Mrs Warburg, but also in general, that it was the case that if you have assaulted those you live in, and are inside the grossly violent provisions of the penal code, it should not just be an opportunity for you to be exposed by your apartment; then we simply have to turn it around so that there must be convincing arguments that you are not exposed by your apartment. That will in fact be the only tool we have to ensure that those who administer these rules, that is housing associations, can then go to, for example, perpetrators and say that it is not really their decision that this is just the way the law is. After all, they get a little caught between two chairs here, where they're the ones that maybe some serious rapist has to go out and say, "Now you're kicked out of your apartment." Maybe you don't want to do that, and then it's gonna be like in this case, sir. and Mrs Warburg, who really gets the most squeezed, and that is unacceptable. We would therefore like to know whether the Minister, in the package he is proposing, will not allow the starting point to be that violent persons who, in other words, commit violence to those they live in need of, lose the right to rent their apartment, without any further action, that is to say, it follows from the law itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104141601	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104141603	Well, I think that's an interesting suggestion. I can't tell you right now what law is like to it. Well, today it is in that way that the tools are there in the way they are. What we have set out to do is to say how we make sure that when you have a person convicted of violence, it is often even that the person gets out more quickly, rather than that you have to go through four courts before you can expose people. It takes several years, sometimes up to 5 years before it is executed. That's the part of it. Furthermore, the residents themselves also have an opportunity to travel it, for example on the rent board.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104141639	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104141640	I think we agree on where we want to go the question is how we get there. We would like cases such as the one from Elsinore to immediately lead to termination of the lease, and I hear the Minister say that too. But that also means that the austerity which the Minister is warning will apply to Mr. And Mrs. Warburg? Because normally we work with rules applying to the future, but we would like this to apply to the specific case too, a matter which I and several others have been up to in Elsinore to hear about so that it is taken care of and this violent person is exposed by his lease, even if the rules the Minister announces may not come for a month or two.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104141717	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104141718	No, I can't make legislation that works retroactively. At least it's not my starting point to do this. The couple in question has a number of opportunities to take the matter up themselves if the Farmhouse is not doing anything. You can bring it to the Board of Appeal; you can, if you experience the excesses of the rent board, bring it to the Houseyard with a desire to get a refusal on the rent; you can claim compensation. There are a number of options that you can try out for yourself, and it is always a very good starting point to look at those options first.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104141757	Thank you. Then it's the enquirer, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. It's 1 minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104141801	Thank you. It's a boring case from Elsinore. There are other cases around the country, among others. in Vollsmose, where I live, and I know that the Minister has been visiting Odense. Is the Minister aware of any other case similar to the one we've seen in Elsinore?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104141823	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104141824	I'm familiar with similar cases because I'm being notified. I myself have also visited Vapnagaard in the specific residential area in Helsingør and among others. Talked to the resident president there. I think this is quite an extreme matter, but there are many similar cases around, and it is a little square in that housing organizations see it as a way that you can virtually only execute a discard quickly if people do not pay their rent. As far as all the other reasons for getting people who somehow make life miserable for other residents are concerned, it is quite a long way to go, and that is what we have now set out to make shorter. And, of course, I would also very much like to discuss this proposal with the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104141902	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104141904	I am glad that the Minister is saying that this is not just an isolated matter, but that it exists all over the country and that we must therefore have done something about it. That is why we also need to protect the residents. This cannot be the case, as the Minister almost proposes, that responsibility be passed on to the residents. We, as a state, will have to back them up. We also need to support the housing companies and put pressure on them so that they do what is necessary, namely to throw these violent residents out. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104141941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104141942	Yes, I agree with that and, as I said in my introduction, I am also astonished that this matter has not been lifted if you have 31 times been out and cleaned the front door of this resident. I do not know the matter, and I cannot say more clearly what exactly has been done about the questioner and the questioner, but there is no doubt that we are looking to resolve the issue of ensuring order in an upswing and in a residential area and to ensure that the discards of these troublemakers can be executed more quickly than is the case today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104142016	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104142018	The reason could be that the housing company is nervous about addressing the violent person in question, and that is why it might be interesting to change the guilt ratio so that unless there is something against, you lose your lease if you commit violence or other similar acts against those you live up to. The backwards approach is not to legislate retroactively; it is, for example, to say that if, within two years, prior to the entry into force of the law, you have committed such acts, you will also be able to lose your lease. I hope that the Minister will consider the proposals we make on behalf of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104142100	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104142101	I will certainly, and I will call the rapporteurs and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt can also be allowed to participate in a discussion of these matters, because I do not know exactly what the legal conditions are when it comes to making a special rule for people in an uproar. Today, it is already the case that if you commit crime within 1 km of your home, there are some particularly aggravated circumstances, and there might be some of the same opportunities. So I think we should have a discussion on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104142130	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt and Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. The question is over. We will continue with a question to the Minister for Housing, and now it is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104142140	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104142147	Thank you. Today's question from me to the Minister for Housing is: does it not impress the Minister when human rights experts in the UN criticise the fact that development plans for general housing areas are not temporarily stopped when there is a case pending before the courts on development plans?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104142206	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104142207	Thank you for the question. The Government has received a joint request from the three UN Special Rapporteurs on inter alia: racial discrimination, housing and living conditions and minority issues. The answer concerns various actions resulting from the project on parallel societies. One of the points is based on the specific case concerning the sale of housing in Mjølnerparken and the application received by the Ministry of Transport and Housing in this connection. This kind of approach makes an impression. In the government, we will deal with the content and answer the reporters' questions. However, we do not put a halt to the work adopted in the Folketing by a broad majority, due to a criticism from the UN Special Rapporteurs, to whom the government has not yet had the opportunity to address itself. After all, it is the Folketing that passes the laws here in Denmark, not the UN rapporteurs. I also believe that there are several misunderstandings in the approach. For example: It seems that the rapporteurs are of the opinion that people are being put on the streets and become homeless when development plans are implemented. The rapporteurs will therefore be informed that it is a perfectly clear requirement for residents to be re-occupied when general housing is sold or demolished, a fact which the questioner is also aware of. Moreover, it is not the State that is implementing a development plan. Housing organisations and municipalities decide for themselves which tools are used to transform residential areas, and in this respect they must follow the rules on resettlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104142327	Mrs. Rosa Lund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104142328	Thank you. But it is quite true that there is a ghetto law that has been adopted here in the Folketing by a broad majority. Fortunately, however, I would say that there is also a broad majority in this Parliament for us to support the United Nations and that we support being part of the international community, a binding community, I would say, as it is to be part of the United Nations, and that must of course impress both the minister and the government. Therefore, I find it hard to understand that the government has not yet responded to this. So my question is, of course, whether it makes no impression at all that the second broad majority, of which Denmark is a part, namely the United Nations, criticises it here. So I would like to hear from the Minister about this, if not the Minister recognizes that there is a broad majority in the Danish Parliament supporting Denmark as part of the UN and supporting the things that the UN brings with it. And now the United Nations comes up with a criticism of these very ghetto plans.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104142431	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104142432	First of all, it is wrong to call something a ghetto law. That's not what it says. Nor do I think there is any reason to use that concept more than is necessary. I think it is 60 pages, it may be that I am wrong and I am going through the individual points, but what is the challenge that I have been told at least is that we are assuming some things that are not the case. For example, I agree that if you said to 260 families in Mjølnerparken that you are selling their house and they are not given any opportunity to rehouse, it would be a violent abuse, that is to say to people who have a dwelling that they are not given any other place to live. But that is not the case either.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104142512	Thank you. Mrs. Rosa Lund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104142514	But is that not the case? What we are doing now is saying to families that they must be very specific, for example. Mjølnerparken, located in Copenhagen. It is not easy to get an apartment at the same price as in Mjølnerparken everywhere else, so perhaps that is actually a little the case. That is also what the United Nations is just saying and criticising. So if the minister cannot respond to the UN's criticism, then the minister must be able to answer these families where they should move.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104142547	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104142547-2	I can answer that, because it is not the way the rapporteur interprets it. As I have been informed, if you live in Mjølnerparken, you have the possibility of being rehoused somewhere else in Mjølnerparken, in that not all buildings are to be sold. If you prefer to be reoccupied in another residence in the same housing organisation, i.e. Bo-Vita, you also have the opportunity to do so. And this is a fairly large housing organisation in Copenhagen, which, as far as I remember, has 5,000-6,000 homes spread throughout the city, also many on Nørrebro, on Østerbro, in the northwest district, which are the areas around Mjølnerparken.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104142623	Mrs Rosa Lund for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104142625	So the answer from the government is that these people need to be refurbished exactly the same place they've moved them from. Then why have these plans been made in the first place? It doesn't really make any sense to force people out of their apartments just to place them in the same place. So what does the government really want with this? I think I know the answer to that, but I do not think we can succeed because you cannot answer where these families are going to move, you just pass the bill on to ordinary tenants. That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104142658	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104142659	Well, the purpose is to create mixed residential areas. That's the whole point of it. That is why we say that you must find the tools for concrete and local in Mjølnerparken, Tingbjerg and elsewhere around the country to create the opportunity for the mixed residential areas. Of course, there is an obligation to rehouse, and we actually have good experiences with this in Aarhus, where you have already been tearing some homes down into the Gellerup Park. Some are being rehoused locally in the western part of Aarhus, some are being rehoused elsewhere in the city. It has worked in a good way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104142729	The question is over, so thank you to Mrs Lund. We're moving on, and it's still with questions to the Minister for Housing, but now it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten, who asks.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104142739	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104142742	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that it is reasonable to continue to implement development plans for general residential areas which may include demolitions and the sale of family homes, i.e. irreversible intervention, against the wishes of residents when there is a case pending before the courts on the legality of development plans?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104142807	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104142808	Yes, I think it is fair that municipalities and housing organisations should continue to implement development plans, regardless of whether a small group of residents have brought the Ministry of Transport and Housing before the courts. It is a broad majority in the Folketing that is behind parallel social legislation in the area of housing, where the transformation of the most vulnerable residential areas is central. There is a broad majority that spans the entire Parliamentary Chamber, from right to left, and for the government it is crucial that the most vulnerable residential areas are converted as soon as possible into well-functioning neighbourhoods, a mixed city. People of different backgrounds must live together, meet each other in the rise, go to school and to football together. It creates a basic trust and will to contribute to the Danish welfare society. We should not, in misguided goodness, bypass the most heavily burdened residential areas. There must also be a part of the mixed city, and the starting point for the need for transformation is that a mixed housing mix will lead to more mixed residential areas and neighborhoods. It is a long-term and far-reaching change in the most heavily burdened residential areas in Denmark, and that effort must be carried out without slings in the waltz; otherwise we will maintain both children and adults living in the most vulnerable areas in a situation of unequal opportunities and in an environment where there are conditions of growth for parallel societies. That is why I am not going to take the initiative to suspend development plans. It is, after all, a broad majority in the Folketing that has adopted them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104142927	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104142928	Yes, it is possible that there is a broad majority for it in the Folketing. There is no doubt that there is also a broad majority in the population and in the Folketing, and perhaps also in the government, which in this way supports the UN. Now we have received a criticism from the United Nations of the pending case, where the United Nations recommends that cases be suspended while proceedings are pending in the courts. What if the 12 residents of the Mjølner Park win? Then we find ourselves in a situation where some sort of settlement plan has been drawn up and where two blocks have been sold and people's homes sold. It's kind of hard to go back to what to say, what to say, the original, if that's how the residents win that trial. That is why, in the Enhedslisten, we think it would actually be fair to listen to the UN in this matter and arrive at a suspension of the resolution plan while the pending case is pending before the courts. I find it shameful that Denmark should receive this criticism from the United Nations if it is the case that it does not want to take it seriously. There was also a criticism last year, but we have now reached a level in the UN system with the criticisms that have been made. So I would like to hear from the Minister if it does not make the impression that we have another criticism from the United Nations this year than we had last year. And then I note that it isn't because the Mjølner Park doesn't want any change. After all, the residents had adopted an overall plan which allowed a more closed block building with new youth housing in the corners, and a kind of new street path to the green areas to be created. One was in process, and that process has been stopped by the fact that a majority in the Folketing wants something quite different. So I would like to hear as a follow-up to that with the United Nations whether the Minister does not see the justification for just stepping on the brake.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104143136	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104143137	Well, I can't. One of the reasons for this is, of course, what I said to the rapporteur's party colleague, that there are some grounds in the criticism that I have been informed so far, and we are, after all, responding to the United Nations letter which I think is wrong, i.e. that people cannot be re-hushed. I would also like to say that it is not only a broad majority in the Danish Parliament that has adopted parallel social legislation; it is also a broad majority in Copenhagen's citizens' representation that has adopted that development plan. It's a broad majority in Bo-Vita, the housing organization that has adopted this development plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104143213	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104143214	I believe that the UN is used to some who think they have the power and yet do something wrong. So I think it should be taken very seriously when the UN makes that criticism. It is easy enough for the Minister to say that there is something wrong in that letter, but I would really like to hear when the government or minister intends to respond to the United Nations. Are we going to answer the question at all? And are you going to do it quickly?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104143241	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104143242	We certainly intend to do so. I do not know exactly when it is; I would very much like to give an estimate on it, but I cannot do that on a stand-by basis. But, of course, we answer when we have an overview of the questions that are being asked and the criticisms that are being raised, what our answer is to that. But I don't think it's an indifferent detail whether people, for example, are going to be housed again. I mean, it's not like anywhere in the country that we, as a government, go in and take people away from their homes without providing them with an equally good alternative. Well, that's the whole point of these rehousings.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104143317	Thank you. Then it is the questioner for the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104143319	So the Minister is not fully aware of what the answer is to be given. This may give us some hope that the conclusion may be reached that the criticism voiced by the United Nations still has to be suspended because there is a case pending before the courts. I understand that the Minister has just highlighted the fact that he believes that there are errors in the letter, but a review of the criticism might in fact mean that we do not just have to answer that we have a majority to implement what we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104143354	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104143354-2	I do not think that is what I said to the questioner, nor is that what we are going to say to the United Nations. We intend, of course, to take the UN seriously, and the only way we can take them seriously is by making a thorough written reply; it is not by rushing us to reply as quickly as we can. I must also say in relation to the legal proceedings that it is not the case that we can put an end to a development that has been adopted here in the Folketing, in the citizens' representation and in the housing organisation by conducting a trial. There are, after all, many other cases where it does not have suspensory effect, that is to say, where everything is stalled by opening a legal case. And that is not the way I think it should be, regardless of the fact that people should, of course, have the opportunity to try their cases in the courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104143434	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you to the Minister for Housing, and thank you to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104143444	The debate is open. The first rapporteur on the platform is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104143457	Thank you. It has been such a well-known case, one can say that in the area around Lolland in particular we have seen and experienced how people's need for housing has been speculated on. Sometimes there have also been very, very clear and concrete examples that precisely these homes have certainly not been suitable to live in. That is, in fact, also the reason for the draft law No. L 5 here on a notification scheme for rented dwellings. After all, it is an agreement between the former government, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party, and it is a question that we are now giving some of the municipalities that are particularly affected by this problem, some tools to try to prevent this problem of people-unsuited housing. What we're talking about is housing that has 40 years on the back. These are homes that have not been rented in the past year. This type of housing, if the municipality chooses to avail itself of this notification scheme, will have to notify the municipality, which then has an opportunity to supervise this accommodation in order to ascertain whether it is suitable or not suitable for housing. And there are such different options. It is clear that if it is suitable on the basis of the municipality's assessment, it is suitable. But if you think it's condemnable, there's no way to rent that apartment. It may also be that you have some doubts, and then there are some opportunities to go in to make a § 80 ban to further clarify whether or not the accommodation is suitable. It may also be that there are some things you can use in relation to the rent board, about this, and there you can say that there will be an obligation on the landlord to comply with the requirements that are being made. You can rent out during the period. It is not certain that this one hundred percent solves all the problems surrounding this, but one can say that it is a good step on the way to trying to prevent the situations we have experienced where citizens are placed in some housing that is not man-made. What has been the problem is that when the municipality has been able to come out and see it here, it is the municipality that has hung on the bill in relation to the re-housing. Here we also suggest that it is the landlord who is so attached to the obligation in this connection. So from the point of view of the Social Democratic Party, we should strongly recommend that we now take this step in order to give the municipalities an opportunity for notification.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104143744	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mrs Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104143759	Thank you for the floor. It is true, as the Social Democrat rapporteur says, that this is because we have a problem in the outermost municipalities. And the bill we are discussing today is the implementation of the political agreement on the notification system to counteract the rental of uninhabitable dwellings of 28 December 2018, which the Left-led government, together with the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance, joined with the Social Democracy and the Danish People's Party. The Left believes that there is a need for a law that is up-to-date and that can meet the challenges facing rural municipalities in particular today, with a number of landlords who rent worn and earned housing, which we have also read about in the daily press. We note that KL and LLO and the Joint Council of Rural Regions also consider the purpose of the notification scheme to be positive. It is a bill which also generally enables municipalities to better implement preventive measures against the rental of worn and deserved dwellings. It is a law that will help to reduce the costs of rehousing the municipalities, which they are obliged to do in accordance with the urban renewal law. In particular, the Left would point out that landlords who attempt to rent worn and earned housing could incur a fine if the notification system was not complied with and the accommodation was confidable. The same landlord who has tried to circumvent the notification scheme may be required to bear all or part of the costs of resettlement. Both think we're fair. And the municipalities are given the possibility of bringing the matter of maintenance obligations to the rent board on their own initiative if it appears from the inspection that there is no health or fire hazard, but after all the housing suffers from maintenance deficiencies to an extent that makes it less suitable for residential use. All in all, the bill benefits both municipalities and citizens by preventing worn-out and earned housing from being rented out. By taking action against those landlords who do not behave properly, we are better suited to the tenants and the many landlords who do well in finding ways to comply with the law and rules and deliver reasonable leases to the tenants. In conclusion, we can say that it will also help to relieve the costs that may be incurred in rural municipalities in this area. Those were the remarks from this point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104144036	Thank you. There are no brief comments. And when I look over the Chamber, I can see that the next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104144048	There is nothing more right to be repeated, so I fully support what we have heard from both the rapporteur of the Left and the Socialist Group, and I can say that we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104144105	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Halime Oguz of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104144115	Thank you. In the SF we are pleased that the government is aware of the very sad trend in which uninhabitable housing, especially in rural areas, is rented to citizens and families. For me, it is extremely important that the municipalities have the right tools to intervene against the rental of these homes by residential speculators, who are often rented out to the weakest in our society. We are therefore in favour of the government's bill, which gives the municipalities a better opportunity to make preventive efforts towards the rental of this type of housing. With the new notification scheme, which provides for additional supervision of older dwellings before rental, the municipality will be able to take systematic action before a rental of dwellings, which are, for example, harmful to health or flammable. When I think about the fact that there are people around Denmark who live in homes that are neither safe for themselves nor for their children, I get very offended and sad. And when these people and families are, in particular, among the most resourceless in our society, we have to intervene, and we do so with this legislation. So there is no doubt that this is a very important point for the SF, which is why we naturally support the bill. However, we have to recognise that many of the health-harming housing houses are located in economically deprived municipalities and that the proposal risks having a limited effect if it is not made compulsory. The municipalities are already required to ensure that the properties are not harmful to health, but we can now enforce that further with this proposal. We are aware that the lack of supervision today can be largely due to a lack of resources for municipal supervision. That is why we propose that further committee work should examine what the resource implications of making the application scheme compulsory are and how it can be financed in the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104144327	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104144334	Enhedslisten supports this bill. We think it is a good thing to give municipalities an additional tool to counter residential speculators. It is then, in connection with a dwelling having to be rented for the first time, that this is a tool to prevent it if the housing has too bad a standard. This is then a voluntary scheme, and I note that in their consultation answer the LEO wants it to be a scheme that should apply to all municipalities. I think it is worth clarifying in a committee procedure whether it will make sense to arrive at it, i.e. that it is not just a tool given to the municipalities, but is, in fact, something that the municipalities are obliged to do. I think it is a little unclear what the penalty is if you do not comply with this law if the bill is passed. Is there a severe penalty in connection with it, or what is the amount of the fine if you do not comply with it? I find that interesting. So you have to ask: where is it that the poorest live in Denmark? It is quite natural for the poorest to go where the rent is lowest. This is where the poorest people may well be exposed to some residential speculators who exploit the situation and provide them with a housing that is not suitable to live in. We can, of course, adopt many things through legislation, and it is also good when necessary legislation is adopted. But I also think it is worth noting that in some parts of the country there are some citizens' initiatives that are actually trying to take care of it. If, for example, you're gonna have to... Takes Bøvlingbjerg, which is located in Jutland, they have made a small company that buys the bad homes. There has just been a mention of a very good craftsman's offer, which was sold to a young man for 65,000 DKK. So now he's renovating. He can then move to the smaller town within a year. It has come about because there are some citizens in Bøvlingbjerg who have said: we will not just tolerate some Låsby-Svendsener coming and buying houses and renting them out to whom they think they should be rented out, because we would like to attract young people to our city. Therefore, an association in Bøvlingbjerg enters and is an intermediary and ensures that it is possible for some young people to buy these houses, renovate them and create life in the city. I think that is a very good example of compliance with other smaller rural communities. It is not because I am saying that we should not make legislation, but there are sometimes some citizens' initiatives that can also be essential to counteract what we are trying to prevent through legislation. I have also noted that in Fjalting they have, in order to attract new residents, a scheme to have some housing that can be rented out to people who are interested in and open to move to a new area. It may be important to have rentals in the countryside so that people can try living there. So we have local areas in Denmark where you can buy a really cheap accommodation, but you just can't be sure that you can sell it afterwards. Therefore, it is a very big decision to move to the countryside. And if there are citizens' initiatives with rental and the attempt to help young people move to some urban communities, I think that these are very good initiatives that can complement this legislation. We support the bill, but we would very much like to change whether we should go for it to be an arrangement for all municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104144720	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104144727	Thank you for the floor. We have a job rotation scheme in the Conservative People's Party at the moment, so I am here instead of Egil Hulgaard, who unfortunately has been given corona. But he's of good courage, and I guess he is. With this bill, L 5, the municipalities will now be able to introduce a notification scheme for rental homes that have not been rented in the last year and where the dwelling is more than 40 years old. It is the implementation of the political agreement that was made in 2018, which is intended to prevent the rental of contactable housing or housing in very poor condition to vulnerable families and citizens or families to be refurbished. Because it is a bit of an insult to the sense of justice to find that a landlord rents a home that is so unhealthy that the tenant has to be refurbished on public account and that the landlord is then not punished. In the home municipality of our housing rapporteur in Furesø, there is a case about that right now. It was a family with a small child who had rented a residence with mold, and therefore there was a great risk of developing asthma and various diseases due to it. Now the family became the house of genes on public account. Having said that, it is unsatisfactory that it is happening in Furesø, but it is of course all over the country, and therefore it is good that we are now doing something about this issue with this bill. What we also like about the bill is that it is based on voluntaryness. It is nice to see that there is confidence in the municipal government, so that the municipalities themselves can comply with this notification system, which L 5 allows. But now that we put this kind of legislation in the municipal councils, it might be worth considering whether the framework of the scheme could be a little more flexible than these maximum considerations. It is not certain that they fit equally into all municipalities. In addition, the law also ensures that the cost of a rehousing, if the landlord has not complied with the rules laid down by the municipality, must be paid by the landlord, and then you will also receive a fine of 10,000 DKK. So the cost can be quite disgusting. But again: there is just such a small fear of legal certainty here, because if, for example, I do so. has inherited my grandmother's residence and then will rent it out, so I become the landlord of a estate, but I am not aware of the condition of the dwelling and therefore completely unaware of it, so besides that I also have to pay for the rehousing, I also get a fine. Therefore, it could be that one should look at what may be extenuating circumstances. Finally, we would also like to ask the Minister here to read section 80a in relation to whether the second sentence of 80a is accurate enough. There is, in fact, an exception to the rule because it states that it does not apply to properties which have been rented out in the last year and which have been listed at least 40 years before the date of notification. I also had to read it twice. It can be read as if the derogation only applies to buildings that meet both criteria, and it can be read as if the intention is that both criteria must be met. All in all, therefore, we support the proposal and look forward to further examination by the committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104145103	I would like to thank Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, who has the honour to say hello to Mr Ammitzbøll. Egil Hulgaard and wish him well. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104145113	Thank you so much. Yeah, these are special times. I have also been dragged in as Wednesday's rapporteur, I am almost tempted to say, instead of Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. And I had to say on behalf of the New Citizens that we have a number of questions, as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen will be sending over in writing before we finally take a position on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104145137	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then the next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104145152	Thank you. I believe that we have all either seen or heard about how dilapidated and sometimes directly health-damaging houses in some places in the country are rented out to vulnerable people. I remember seeing a documentary about some people in whose kitchen they simply grew mushrooms from the kitchen floor. So there you can literally talk about having a kitchen garden. We must, of course, do the best we can to prevent this. And with the bill here we allow the municipalities to intervene before they rent out, as the notification scheme requires the landlord to notify the municipality before a more than 40-year-old dwelling, which has been uninhabited for over 1 year, is rented out. With this bill we will not only help the vulnerable citizens, we will actually also ensure a boost for rural areas, and we in the Danish People's Party are very happy about that. So we look forward to the forthcoming cooperation on this, and of course we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104145302	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then we are through the rapporteur's line, and the next person to speak is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104145311	Thank you to the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law, which is, of course, the re-submission of a legislative proposal from the spring, but I am pleased to have it confirmed once again. The aim is, after all, to provide municipalities with additional tools to counter speculative rental of poor housing. This is an old agreement that we adopted in 2018, which will now come into the legislative text, and which will give the municipalities advance knowledge of whether there are health-related homes so that they can intervene before a rental takes place. With the bill, municipalities can choose to introduce it, and that will mean, as has also been mentioned, that the municipalities will have 30 days to review properties that are more than 40 years old and that have not been rented for 1 year. And to answer the Conservative rapporteur, it is the case that both conditions must be met. The vast majority of the housing we have, both in the municipalities which are likely to introduce this scheme, but also in general, are older dwellings. If you take a municipality like Lolland, it's 96 percent, as far as I remember. of their housing stock built more than 40 years ago and then covered by this scheme. So that is the vast majority of them, and we think the best way to frame it is to hit those homes that are actually worn out, while you can still have rentals of, for example, newer homes under normal conditions. It will work in such a way that when the municipality receives a notification of rental, one can choose to carry out the supervision under Section 75 of the Urban Renewal Act, which lays down the municipality's obligation to supervise the housing if there is a risk of health or fire. Following supervision, the municipality will be able to approve the rental, condense the dwelling or bring significant maintenance deficiencies to the rent board. If the supervision has not provided sufficient grounds for a condition, but there is a strong presumption that the property is condemnable, the municipality may abolish a so-called § 80 ban, which would prevent a change in the legal and actual council over the property. This means that the owner is not allowed to rent out the property until the municipality has taken a closer look at the condition of the property. be to take samples in conjunction with mold. If the municipality does not consider the dwelling to be condemnable, but instead considers that the property has significant maintenance deficiencies, they may refer the matter to the rent board, which may decide on the matter. The introduction of maintenance gaps will not prevent the rental, but will ensure that the deficiencies are addressed so that the accommodation will not become condemnable in the near future. In order to ensure compliance with the notification scheme, a fine is proposed if the landlord has not notified the accommodation or has allowed the move within the 30-day period. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur asked about the amount of fines, and as a starting point it will be 10,000 kr., but it will of course be up to the courts to decide on it; if there may be aggravated circumstances, repeated cases or the like, it is of course also with them, but on the basis of this it is in the order of 10,000 kr. Under the scheme, municipalities will be able to carry out resettlement on the owner's account if the dwelling is occupied and the use scheme is not complied with. As the rules are now, a residential speculator can rent out a poor accommodation and earn on the rent until the municipality condenses the dwelling. Therefore, new bad housing can be bought and rented, while the municipality has to pay to get the tenants rehoused in decent housing. The scheme should strengthen municipalities and make it possible to hold owners financially responsible for the consequences of renting out poor housing. It is important to me that everyone should be able to live under decent conditions and it is totally unacceptable that people live in health- and flammable housing. Therefore, I also hope that the relevant municipalities will take this scheme into account and use it actively. In all modesty, I think that we are taking a rather large step in ensuring that, for example, in Lolland-Falster or in other municipalities on the water edge, we are given the opportunity to stop some of the problem in relation to the movement around the citizens, it can be said, between municipalities that often turn the heavy end down, so that we manage to give them that opportunity and that we provide them with concrete tools to also ensure that they can more easily get an overview of their populations and create urban development in their area. So all in all, I really think that this is a very good piece of legislation, and I am also pleased with all the positive comments. Of course, we will accept and answer questions, and we look forward to answering the questions from Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104145759	Thank you. There are no brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104145816	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Møller of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104145826	Proposal for a law amending the law on the temporary regulation of housing conditions makes me think of a course I was once on where there was a wording called: A possible need-oriented cross-sectoral theme planning. It could be used for anything. It was an environmental course, but it could in itself have been anything. It's more the thing with the linguistic quirkiness. For what is basically at issue here is a matter of the obligation of residence in newly established housing, which is set out in the local plan for the full-year residence. It's a little more mouthy, but it's also linguistic, that you might have to look at it a second time. But it can be said that this is an attempt to provide some of the municipalities where there is a high demand for housing, a tool when they have to plan housing for the future after 2021, i.e. from 1 January 2021. Then we give the tool that when you make a local planning, where it is planned that these are full-year residences, then there will also be a duty of residence. But it is also the case that it can be used here when the authorisation for placing in service is granted. In other words, we are tightening up a little so that we do not invest in these homes and leave them empty for a long time without having residents in them. That's what we're up to with this bill. As I said, this is something that the municipalities themselves have an opportunity to use, so it is in itself not a requirement we make of the municipalities. As I said, this is primarily intended in relation to the municipalities where there is a high demand for housing. There it is illogical somewhere that there may be some empty dwellings that some actually need. What you can say, which may, like, be the threat in this, is that if not the landlord or those who like own this residence are able to maintain that residence obligation, then after 6 weeks the municipality has the opportunity to place some in this apartment. I don't think that's enough motivation to actually make sure these homes are used for housing as well. We, the Social Democrats, must recommend the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104150038	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Heidi Bank from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104150057	Thank you. I will not read out the long name of the bill, as the Social Democrat rapporteur has just done. In the Left, we are concerned that we are making wise use of the housing stock and that we are doing everything we can to ensure that there is a good and varied supply of housing. It is also the case that housing policy is based on an interaction between the national and local authorities, including the priorities a municipality has had in relation to housing types and sizes, and on the fact that there is a market where investors, for example: pension funds, want to invest. Looking at newly built full-year residences over a 10-year period, which the Ministry of Housing did back in 2017 • who had a slightly longer name, and it was also said something with the Ministry of Transport • it turns out that it is less than 1%. of the dwellings built between 8 and 10 years before, which become empty over a longer period. Tom is here, among other things. is understood in such a way that the dwelling e.g. used by a citizen who has his family in Jutland, but who needs a residence in Copenhagen. So it is not necessarily a place of residence that is completely empty and that is just a speculative object. It is a matter of the fact that a resident is not registered at the address. In the same analysis, the Ministry also states that it is not appropriate to implement because the supply of housing will be negatively affected. That is why we need to clarify whether the proposal bites itself in the tail and whether we have fewer homes instead of more. What has happened since 2017, since we now see this bill? We are concerned about the bureaucracy that lies in the proposal, about interference in personal property rights, about the lack of understanding of the risk of new building, about the flexibility that may be needed in terms of selling and renting housing, and about the risk of forced rental or forced sale, when homes are completed, if they cannot be sold immediately, with the negative consequences mentioned for the provision of housing. We are concerned that the proposal reduces mobility and that the need for Danish families to adapt to where work can be found is adversely affected. This applies to families with one party who have to live in part far away from the family but who cannot live up to, for example. The municipality of Copenhagen's requirement for 180 nights in order to obtain a derogation for a non-residential residence. After all, we are part of the castle that enjoys a residence in Copenhagen, even though we cannot meet the 180-day requirements. On the other hand, we agree that it is inappropriate to speculate on leaving apartments unused. That is just not what we have the impression of happening either. But we look forward to a very good discussion, which is solution-oriented and will look at the challenges that the City of Copenhagen in particular is facing in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104150404	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104150418	Thank you. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that newly established dwellings, which are set up in a local plan for full-year residences, can be put into service from the point of view of the municipal authority's authorisation for entry into service. The need to put forward the bill is based on the fact that some people buy the homes as investments and not to live there or rent them out, and that they are thus empty, and this is a waste of resources that we in the Danish People's Party would like to help fight, so that we can meet the enormous pressure on the housing market in the larger cities. Therefore, the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104150455	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104150509	Otherwise, I'm the one who's grown down. I hardly reveal the great surprise of saying that we support the proposal, even on the basis of what Mrs Hjermind Dencker rightly points out, namely the waste of resources. After all, this is a big city problem. It is the four largest cities in the country that have the challenge. And it is not fair that what is intended in the local plan to be a full-year residence is not used as a full-year residence, but as investment objects. So we can support that, not least in view of the fact that I always think it is a good idea when we give power from in here and put it to the municipalities and let them decide for themselves what is needed, and the Left should be very excited about that too. I can at least remember, as a former Leftman, that a mantra that could always get us to call in the Left was, when they said "decentralise" and let the municipalities decide for themselves. So I hope that the Left will also take part in this excellent proposal from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104150627	Thank you, and this gave rise to a brief remark from Mrs Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104150637	I think I can hear from the rapporteur that it is being spoken as if it were a big city problem. The report from 2017 drawn up by the Ministry itself states quite clearly that this is a problem that Copenhagen has. This is not a challenge, as I have read it has in any of the other major cities we have, i.e. Aarhus, Odense and Aalborg. At the same time, when the analysis also says that there is a challenge, given that this might give less housing, I would like to hear the views of Radicals on it if this proposal ultimately results in fewer housing. Because that is one of the concerns we have. Because we fully agree that it is a good idea to add things to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104150732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104150733	Yes, now I also consider Copenhagen to be a big city, and that is a potential problem for other cities. Well, that's where you'll be able to see the problem. I know this is very centered around Copenhagen. With regard to the fewer homes: I simply find it difficult to find the logic that fewer homes should be provided, that care should be taken to ensure that the homes that are actually there are not empty. So can the rapporteur of the Left not explain to me the logic of that? Because I have also read it, and it just doesn't make any sense to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104150813	Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104150814	Now I haven't written the report from the Ministry of Housing, but the way I understand it, it's all about how investment can be reduced. It is not about the houses that are now, because the rapporteur from Radicals is of course right that if you just take them one to one and rent them out, it will give more. But if fewer are simply built because it creates a less incentive to build, then there is a concern there. But we're very willing to take a look at this. But I am also counting on the rapporteur from Radicals to acknowledge that, when we put it to the municipalities, part of the challenge is also, for example, if we are to do so. The priority is to build a few homes, which are very large and very luxurious, a place where you may need a little less housing, such as: in the City of Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104150903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104150904	But I find it hard to imagine a less investment in, for example. Copenhagen, because it's a good business to invest here. And again: We leave it up to the municipalities themselves to deal with whether there is a problem or not, and I think that in the name of decentralisation is quite excellent. Even though the bill has a funny name, we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104150935	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. And the next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104150943	Thank you, President. In the SF we have long fought to ensure that housing in the residential municipalities is used for all-year residence. That is why, during the last government period, we have already put forward a proposal to prevent housing without the obligation to live in urban areas. We therefore very much welcome the Government's bill on the obligation of residence for all newly established dwellings, which is set out in a local plan for full-year residences. In our opinion, it cannot be right that housing is empty in a city such as Copenhagen, where thousands of students are without accommodation each year at the start of their studies and where ordinary employees are pushed out of the city. We need to ensure that the housing stock in our cities is exploited in the best possible way, and this proposal is part of the solution. With the new law, we can finally close this gap in the legislation, where new apartments are bought up by investors, for example, who do not use the homes for full-year residence, leaving a situation where newly established homes are empty, while the demand for housing in our cities is rising. The SF will therefore vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104151052	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, who is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104151102	I think it is a good day to move forward with this bill, which has the intention of guaranteeing the residence obligation in the municipalities, which has a priority that the local plan specifies that in a residential area there is a residence obligation. So this is an option for the municipalities who think that housing should be built in order for people to live in housing rather than housing to be built in order for them to be an object of speculation. And if it is the case that some people want a holiday home in Denmark, you can buy a holiday home as a Dane, that is, if it is the case that you should not be in Denmark all the time. We see some problems in this bill, because where is the cut when you introduce new legislation? And here the cut has been laid so that if you have residential areas where the local plan defines a residence obligation and you have not started construction, then this new law will not apply to those areas. And I think it was more reasonable to put the cut where it was construction that did not have a building permit for which this new bill should apply. Because once the municipality has established a local plan and the municipality has made a political decision that there should be a residence obligation, that is what you want. The fact that, up to now, we have legislation which is too weak to ensure that it is complied with is another matter, but the municipality has, as it were, defined that in this area there must be a duty of residence. So I do not think that legislation is made with retroactive effect if it was the case that this was changed to apply in the sense that it applies to all future buildings that do not yet have a building permit. I can see that if you have something where there is a residence obligation in the local plan, and we have these soft rules that make it possible to plan after some of these homes are owned by foreign dancers, and you have a building permit, then you are in a different situation. So the cut for when this law starts to apply, I don't think it's right in the bill. Then I can also see that there is a little hole, because this new legislation should not apply if you have put your home for sale. And if you think that you really do not want to sell your home and sell it for the double price of what it really is worth, then the new legislation will not apply to that housing. I don't think that's fair either. So I think there's a slight shortage in the bill. And that is one of the things that is to be found in some of the consultation answers, where the City of Copenhagen has some wishes for it. So I think that in committee we should change the draft law a little. Otherwise, however, I think it is very good that we should support the municipalities that want to have a residence obligation on new buildings. And this isn't just something that can affect Copenhagen. This may just as well be something that can affect new urban growth areas in Aarhus, Aalborg and Odense. It could also be other cities, and it could be some surrounding municipalities in Copenhagen, where this could also be important.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104151430	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104151432	At first sight, one might think that the example of one's being able to sell one's apartment twice as much sounds a bit sought. But that cannot be ruled out. Then I just wonder what the solution would be in the bill. Did Mr. Soren Egge Rasmussen a bid for the solution of such a potential problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104151503	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104151504	No, I don't have that clearly. I was just reading the bill, and then I figured this could get along. Then you can have such a small home ad somewhere on a website that you want to sell your home, and then you should not comply with a residence obligation. It could be an easy way to get around it. I mean, we're talking about something here, where there are some people who are twisting. So when legislation is passed, some will probably continue to think that they would like to have an accommodation available in Copenhagen, which is then very short time. That is why the problem has arisen; it is asking for some people. You could also choose to visit Copenhagen and stay in a hotel. That's another option. You don't have to own the place you sleep. You can sort of book a room at one of the hotels where I've heard there's spare capacity.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104151600	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104151601	It's okay if you go along with that premise there; it's all good enough. But I also have to ask how we can resolve that problem. I'm just having a hard time seeing how to solve it. You can't forbid people to put their homes for sale. And we can't dictate a price for that apartment either. It would be fairly extensive. So it's more a question of, in case Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen is right in that premise, and I am not saying that he does not have what we should do about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104151638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104151638-2	Well then, the rapporteur has just proved that I have pointed out a gap in the legislative proposal that has just been tabled, and it is, of course, that the committee procedure and the questions to the Minister must reveal whether we can get closer to the fact that the law is not being circumvented by just such pro forma to put your home for sale in order to circumvent the obligation of residence.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104151656	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104151701	I just heard a remark that fell into the debate with the Radical questioner that you can just stay in a hotel if you have a job in Copenhagen, but as I understand it, you have some family in Jutland. I would like to hear Enhedslisten's rapporteur: Does the Enhedslisten's rapporteur think that Members of Parliament should also just stay in a hotel?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104151725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104151726	Now I didn't mention work I was talking about when you visit Copenhagen. Because there may be some who, as an investment project, have an apartment in Copenhagen and visit Copenhagen very rarely and then spend the night there. I am well aware that there is another category that includes people who work in Copenhagen and live in Jutland and that members of parliament belong to that category. The Danish Parliament has then bought apartments, and it has come to the conclusion in Copenhagen that there is no obligation of residence. In the past it has been the case that if you were a temporary member of parliament, you could stay in a hotel, and there have also been other arrangements in the past where members of parliament could own a dwelling. So I am well aware that we have a dilemma here and that we also have a problem with people who have temporary work so much to commute, and that is solved in different ways. There are also some people who rent a room to people who commute to Copenhagen and work here for 3-4 days. It also exists.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104151823	Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104151824	I am pleased to hear that Enhedslisten recognises that some people are actually facing a real problem in terms of making their everyday life work. The Enhedslisten may have heard that I said in my speech that the City of Copenhagen has a rule that, in order to obtain an accommodation where you do not need to register your address, you must stay at least 180 days in the dwelling. Where does Enhedslisten think the cut should lie if you need a home? Does Enhedslisten believe that the 180-day rule works, or does Enhedslisten believe that the number should be different?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104151905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104151906	I am sure that many people need accommodation in Copenhagen to solve it by renting a room. Well, the dilemma is, if you're out in something where you have to take possession of an entire dwelling, because you're in Copenhagen half the time. There we need to be fully aware of what kind of housing problems may be in the big cities. But this bill has the more of an intention to ensure that penthouses do not just become speculative objects that some foreign dancers own and very rarely use.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104151948	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104151956	Thank you. In L 9, this bill, the government will allow municipalities to forcibly rent private newly built dwellings if a permanent tenant has not been found within just 6 weeks. The aim is to strengthen the efficient use of housing stock. Of course, it makes good sense to secure more housing for the Danes, and especially as elected in the capital, I would say that there is often a housing problem, at least in relation to scarcity, which is a challenge for many. However, this draft law now contains some worrying measures. The bill is based on a note from 2017, where in Copenhagen in January 2017 there were approx. 2,600 empty dwellings in that part of the housing stock which was not subject to the residence obligation. Of these, approx. 45% in newly constructed dwellings, which this bill is trying to hit. The figures are marked by a number of completed dwellings in 2016, which had not yet found a permanent resident. So even though the government has a goal to create 110,000 new homes in the largest cities by 2023, there's a risk that, on the basis of this bill, it will be less attractive to invest in private housing in all cities covered by this housing regulation law, and it may be a risk of tightening the government's ambitions. Because investing is just gonna be less interesting. However, there are some comments in the bill and they list here in a good and systematic way the disadvantages for the state, the municipalities and the regions respectively and there are none. However, those affected are private property owners who, according to the comments, are affected by quite significant administrative costs. It's estimated at less than 4 million. kr., however, without any further comments on how this amount has been arrived at. It is somewhat unclear how the administrative costs are fixed. So the Conservative People's Party will now, in the forthcoming committee work, ask for additional information on the estimates relating to the administrative costs of private property owners. No success criterion has been included in the law. Perhaps it would be very useful, when you make a law, to think about what it is that you expect to be the effect. So it is not indicated how many extra homes L 9 will create. A guess could actually be none, partly because within a few years the homes will be inhabited, partly because the law will make it less attractive to build new, not only in the larger cities, but in all municipalities that are affiliated to the Housing Regulation Act. So somehow it's a little bit to shoot gray sparrows with guns without knowing if you're gonna hit them. In Copenhagen it is approx. 43.000 housing units, and less than 1%. is likely to be empty for a shorter period of time. This is often due to the fact that it also takes a little time to sell a dwelling, sometimes longer than 6 weeks. In the existing housing regulation, here Article 48, it is true that there is a period of 6 weeks to notify a new resident when moving from condominium to cohabitation. But it does not apply if it has not been possible to dispose of the dwelling within the time limit. Danish property owners had estimated 6 months, i.e. significantly longer than the 6 weeks the government is planning. So municipal forced rental of private newly built dwellings after 6 weeks is not a proportional penalty compared to an unreasonable short period of time to find a permanent resident for a new dwelling. That is why we cannot support the draft law as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104152352	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104152404	Thank you so much. And thank you to the Conservative rapporteur for the outline of the bill. New citizens do not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104152412	There are no brief comments. We are now through the series of rapporteurs, at least the rapporteurs present, so the next to speak is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104152431	Thank you. Now I'm gonna have to run the platform down a little bit. Thanks for the positive reception most of the way around. This bill means that newly established dwellings, which have been set up in a local plan for full-year residences, will also be subject to the rules on the obligation of residence as soon as a permit for entry into service is available. The aim is to strengthen the efficient use of the entire housing stock. It is a fact that there are newly established dwellings which have not been put into service, even if they are ready to move in, and even if they are set out in a local plan for full-year residences. The reasons for this may be many, but we should not have half-empty homes scattered around our cities, because more and more homeowners can afford to own more homes that they do not use. Tools are needed to use the entire housing stock in the most efficient way. That is why we have laid down rules on the obligation of residence which apply to dwellings which have so far been used for all-year residences. The rules ensure that the dwellings used for all-year housing do not disappear from the housing stock. What we are proposing now is to extend the rules to take advantage of the part of the housing stock that is ready to be put into service for full-year residences. We think that is fair. You can, for example. Imagine a rise in two newly established dwellings, one of which has been put into use at the perennial residence, while the other is empty. If the former housing becomes empty, it will now be subject to the rules of residence and the owner must ensure that the dwelling continues to be inhabited. The second apartment will instead continue to be empty, as the rules are today. We are changing that now, and that is fair, because we are talking about housing established on the basis of a local plan, in which the municipal council has demanded that the housing should be used for the full year's residence. The developer has built the building, knowing that it is a full - year residence, and has also applied for a building permit to build all - year residences. And then come the buyers, who are also told that these homes are set for full-year residences. When the rules are laid down in advance and everyone is aware of them, I think it is right that we should demand that the houses which are built, for example. in the large cities on the few remaining lands, also actually used to meet the current housing demand. In the government we see the bill in the context of the upcoming local plans with tens of thousands of new homes that will be built in the coming years. We will provide the municipal councils with a tool that will support their decision to build full-year residences. Then, of course, we leave it to the individual municipal council to decide whether or not to apply the scheme. The bill will not involve any forced sale of new homes. If the owner has put his dwelling for sale, it is reasonable that the dwelling should not be put into service, as this would complicate the sales process and possibly affect the price. In the case of a lease, the situation is different. It will also be in the landlord's interest to be assigned to a tenant. That is why we are not proposing to exempt these dwellings from the regulation. The proposal will not apply to dwellings set up for full-year residence in a local plan that has been finally adopted and publicly announced before 1 January 2021. For these dwellings, the existing rules will apply. Overall, I think this is a good way of balancing the various considerations at stake when it comes to regulating the obligation of residence for newly established housing. That is why I would like to thank you for your treatment. I would just like to say, because there was a specific question along the way from Enhedslisten's rapporteur, that today, as I am told, there is already an opportunity for the municipality to take action against people who put housing for sale in a way that is clear that they are not interested in selling them. But, of course, we will also have to give a written follow-up to this if the rapporteurs raise that question. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104152810	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the Minister for Housing. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104152824	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104152843	I don't know if you can say this is the second half. At least that's the second half of something we've been doing. It is the case that this spring we concluded a housing agreement which was with broad support from the Danish Parliament's parties. With that agreement, we agreed on a framework of 30 billion. kr. for the renovation of general housing during the period up to 2026. This is a great deal of agreement in that this is the largest total investment in the general housing sector ever. It is for the benefit of the tenants, it is for the benefit of the green conversion, and it is for the benefit of employment. In order to keep our hands on employment and boost the economy during the covid-19, we had already agreed before the summer break that 12 billion should be released. kr. in 2020. There we have ensured that the money can be used quickly for the benefit of employment and, above all, that we can begin to renovate the many dwellings on the Landsby Fund waiting lists. With this bill that we are now discussing, we are following up on the rest of the agreement that we made, and that means that we are placing 6.4 billion. kr. in 2021 and settles the remaining part of the Landsbygningsfonden's waiting list. We will then subsequently adapt the renovation projects that need to be, by approx. Two-and-a-half billion. kr. Annually from 2022 until 2026 with new cases. With this bill, we also ensure that we get a more simplified renovation aid; that we get some new rules for merging, so that more smaller and cheap housing in the larger cities is preserved; a green guarantee to ensure more energy savings in general housing; funds for demolition, sustainability and digitisation; extension of reduced and differentiated basic capital so that it remains cheap for municipalities to build general government not only that it is cheap, but also that we now have a longer timeframe for municipalities to act on. It has been a major problem that from year to year the municipalities did not know what the framework was. We expect it to be what it was last year. Now, over a number of years, we have laid a framework that makes it attractive to build in general. I must also say that today we have received information from the islands about that part with the possibility of general housing in outlying areas. We've got a letter about this with 100 percent authorizing rights on the part of the municipalities. There are five mayors who have responded today. We are very critical of this, and to that I would say that it is not someone who has been entitled to a hearing, but they have found out that this problem exists. I would like to guarantee that we will take this into the forthcoming negotiations so that we can hopefully find a solution, also for the outermost regions to feel that the framework we provide them in terms of being able to make some general housing is appropriate and sensible for them. As a Social Democrat, I find it difficult not to be enthusiastic about the agreement because, with the extraordinary effort, we are renovating the 72 000 dwellings which are on the waiting list today. We can also maintain a high standard of housing in the general sector, which houses around one million tenants and thus is the main foundation stone or at least one of them in the Danish society. Secondly, the agreement is green with an incentive to refurbishing our housing stock. It contributes to the green transition and the achievement of 70-percent CO2 Thirdly, we have helped to keep our hands on employment in a difficult situation. I know a lot of people are saying that things aren't going very well. Of course, we must constantly adapt so that we do not create overheating or bottlenecks or anything else, but I do not think that that is what we are hearing. We hear, however, that the things that we, among others, are. with this agreement has ensured a good and stable employment in this particular area. One might say that we are also reaching out to future apprentices. In the projects supported, at least 15% must be paid for. of the employed are apprentices. In those words, we in the Social Democratic Party can easily recommend the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104153320	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur, Mrs Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104153333	Thank you. Then I drove up the platform a little bit; it's going up and down here today. With the Green Housing Agreement, we help to keep our hands on Danish jobs and ensure that young people can get an education in construction. We are helping to keep our hands under Danish economics, and this is still very much needed, and I do not think we have forgotten that in the Folketing, where we also have several members who have been affected by corona in the last few days. With the Green Housing Agreement, we are helping to make the renovation activity greener by selecting projects from the waiting list with a greater potential for energy renovations by introducing a green assessment. In the future, a new green aid criterion will be introduced to supplement the current trend criterion. With the framework for renovation activity up to 2026 we, if I may put it this way in pick-out, healthier housing, will provide better indoor climates for the benefit of all accessibility for the benefit of the elderly and people with disabilities; space for everyone; conversions; adaptation of housing where it makes sense and benefits more; and common areas that will provide security and well-being. This is all something we really like in the Left, because we know that this affects a great many people, that is, that they have homes they can be proud of. More specifically, for the green impressions of the agreement, mention should be made of green guarantees; promotion of energy improvement works involving private ones; possibility of private cofinancing on the long track; sustainability; sustainable investments that would not normally have been supported, e.g. the development of climate-friendly building materials; more recycling; it is also something we know the industry is demanding very much, that is, that there are some places where they can get started, and that there is a demand for and digitalisation that creates a necessary platform for monitoring and recording and documentation of the green initiatives, not least in order to create transparency and facilitate the work of housing associations. Finally, small islands benefit local communities. The Left supports the fact that no new tasks should be included on the waiting list if they cannot be implemented realistically within three years. We do not think it makes sense if the resident democracy is to spend time and effort on projects that are unrealistic in the future. The Left supports the extension of the rules on municipal reduced differentiated basic capital. It makes sense to promote the construction of smaller homes. The Left also supports the extension of the current rules on the reduction of the contribution of free-care providers to free-care homes. It makes good sense to equate private free-care providers with the municipality. The housing contract addresses renovations, which often result in mergers, and that in future these will only be supported outside major cities, but the bill itself contains a general tightening of the rules for aggregation in the law on general housing. The possibility for municipal authorities to allow the aggregation of dwellings is limited to housing in vulnerable residential areas. In advance, it is the Housing Minister who, following a recommendation from the Municipal Council alone, can allow aggregation up to 140 m2 outside exposed residential areas. We think that is very positive, but I would also ask the Minister to explain why the implementation of this point in the housing agreement is being carried out with a general tightening. Is it not only Copenhagen that really has a challenge? Will not unnecessary bureaucracy be introduced into the municipalities of Denmark? We would like to hear an answer to that. In conclusion, I do not want to hide the fact that it was and is absolutely crucial for the Left that the agreement contributes to the fact that more Danes still have a job to stand up for, that all Denmark will benefit from the jobs, and not least that the green is promoted in the construction and general sector. Both people and climate benefit from this. It has also been important for the Left that the renter's money is spent wisely. Therefore, we will follow that some of the challenges addressed in the bill are being addressed by the Landsbygningsfonden (Landsbygningsfonden) are being addressed. We should focus politically on this, and I also know that many of the other parties do, because it is ultimately about the tenants' money being spent wisely. Those were the comments from that, but all in all we are very pleased with the agreement that has been reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104153807	Thank you to Mrs Heidi Bank. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104153822	Thank you. I'm gonna take the platform down a little bit for the good of myself and sir. Jens Rohde, we don't have to do the work twice! The proposal here is the implementation of the housing agreement on the Landsbygningsfonden, which we in the Danish People's Party are very happy to be part of. We are pleased that there will be more accessible housing for disabled people and the elderly, and we are particularly pleased that the agreement provided us with funds for the construction of general housing in the small islands. The islands are in a situation where it can be difficult to attract new islanders, since the housing stock they have on the islands is typically houses. So if you want to settle on an island, you have to invest in a house, alternatively rent one, and there are not so many houses that are rented out on the islands. Therefore, it may be difficult to attract new islanders, because it is a great cost to invest in a house if you find out that the island life is not just for you. So rental accommodation on the islands is welcome, and this is something that the islands have been sighing for for a long time. If you want to try out the island life without taking any financial risks, then you are less committed. However, one thing we have come across in the draft law is that it is therefore important that we introduce in the proposal that in the general housing of the islands the same conditions should apply in relation to the authorising rights and obligations of the municipality, as in the case of general construction. So, of course, we are appealing for that to be included in the proposal. And otherwise, of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104154007	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104154020	Well, then I can just strengthen my self-confidence by raising the table a little bit again. I can't help thinking back to week 5, where I thought: I don't want to sit in the locals and make deals with that guy anymore. I mention it because today we've been having a lunch together and what's so great about this house is that you can get into some clash in here, so the besserwisses, and commentator buying estimates that now it's being pulled blank, and now the rainboard's done, and they never get any further from that. However, it was not long before we all sat on a joint table and made this agreement that we are discussing here today, and I sincerely believe that all parties involved in this agreement are very happy with it. We have all been given something, and we can all see ourselves in it, not least because it improves the living conditions of the people who live with molds today. It is not only in private homes that you see kitchen gardens; there are really major problems, including in the general sector. So, first of all, this is a good deal. It is also green and it is modern because money is also being set aside to digitise our entire general sector. It may sound so boring, but it has been my heart-child, as it is so important that we have digitalised the general sector, so that we also get renovated in time and manage the maintenance of housing in the general sector in the future. So it is combined with employment objectives and efforts and also the fact that, at the request of the Danish People's Party, some additional funds have been made available to build some general housing in the outlying areas, makes it a pretty fantastic deal. Thank you, sir. Henrik Møller for a good rapporteur's speech, and thank you for addressing the problem raised by the Danish small islands association, which I hope the Minister has an answer to or will at least give an answer to during committee readings. Then I have just one question, which is that I understand that there are some housing associations in the country which, because of the corona, have little difficulty in getting their projects approved by the end of the year. Then I hear something about getting off the list, and if that is the case, can we not do it in such a way that we do not get off the list or that an extended deadline is introduced? I don't really know exactly what the situation is, it's just something I'm going to meet with, and it shouldn't be the case that people are being punished because they can't be brought together. There's something resident democracy and something like that that that's all about this. So I think that the Minister and we who are now going to be dealing with this in committee should bear in mind that nothing falls between two chairs. Having said that, we support it, of course, because it is a good agreement, and it was also a fine course of negotiations and a good process we had. So thank you for that, Minister - and thank you for a nice lunch.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104154428	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. The next rapporteur is Mrs Halime Oguz of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104154436	Thank you. In SF we are very pleased with the green housing agreement, which benefits both the green transition and the Danish economy. The agreement ensures that the long waiting list for renovation projects of general housing has finally been abolished, and then the agreement with the green screening of renovations has an extra focus on climate and energy savings, which we in the SF have fought hard for. We are also pleased that the government has chosen to prioritize work across resort areas, as we in the SF believe that it gives the absolute best results when housing policy and climate policy are combined with agreements like this. The many billions set aside in the agreement are therefore both for the benefit of the homeowner and our climate, and then they are job-creating at a time when the Danish economy is under pressure from the coronapandemic. The agreement creates many new jobs in the construction sector, which now needs to be energy-efficient and make homes more green around the country. This is positive for our economy and for the Danes, who are now getting more maintained and green housing. As an aside, I would like to add to the proposal that a few days ago we housing rapporteurs received a request from a number of municipalities, which Mr. Henrik Møller also referred to and they express concern about the proposal's provision for a 100 per cent municipal authorizing court. and therefore not an authorising officer of 25%, which is normally applicable to general housing. We fear that the municipalities will fail to implement the new public housing in the small islands if they are to take on this increased risk, and that is why I am very pleased that we are taking it up in committee. Finally, I would like to mention that we in the SF are proud to be part of the agreement that has been reached by a broad majority in the Folketing. This makes the agreement robust, and it sends a good signal to the Danes. SF also votes in favour of the proposal, which translates the last part of the Green Housing Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104154657	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104154703	Thank you. I think it was a good thing that, overall, we arrived at the phasing out of the whole waiting list. I guess that wasn't what I had imagined we could get to the point when the year started, and I think you might want to dwell a little more on why that waiting list has become so big. This may be because there is a renovation need of approx. 5 billion kr. a year. So what's the deal here all together? Yes, it does not automatically solve the problems in the future, and when you look at the fact that rules are being introduced that you can only have a waiting list that corresponds to the possibility of renovation aid for three years, it is, of course, just as if you have ordered a waiting list that cannot be too large. Then it can only be 6.6 billion. kr. But what if it turns out that there is really a need for renovation that is greater? Yes, it is not with the Landsbygningsfonden funds, it can be solved, and it is of course interesting whether this agreement contributes to the fact that there is other capital that comes into play in order to ensure the renovations in the general sector. That cannot be ruled out, and that is what is being opened up in the agreement here, and perhaps there is a little left to get the messages, what to say, to the overall housing movement, that there are other possibilities than the Landsbygningsfonden, if renovations are to be carried out. Of course, there is also the long-term, where you just have the planned maintenance and then you get to some day after 20 years, where you can then complete the planned maintenance. At times, however, there is also an unforeseen occurrence or technological development that may make you want to renovate more, or that the residents have some desire to do more, and are prepared to adopt budgets in relation to it. So I think we have a job to do in getting to that extra capital that is being opened up to help finance your renovations and how we ensure that it is a success. As a whole, I am happy with the agreement and, of course, I also have to point out what has not quite been achieved. It has to be said that the housing social effort has been earmarked in the past for certain residential areas, and I fear that some problems are overlooked, that the social problems which may be in settlements with less than 1,000 inhabitants are overlooked and that they cannot be included in plans where they are supported. Then I know that the Minister will say that it is just the municipalities that have to solve it. Yes, you can imagine that, but then it is necessary for us to have a municipal agreement which allocates funds to it or for us to negotiate a financial agreement where money is given priority. I therefore agree that it is not reasonable for the tenants to have to pay for the whole effort for the problems that may be in their residential area. Then the special thing has happened that there was a corner that we didn't get agreed in the negotiations, and it's about free-care homes that have then been put into this bill. In the Enhedslisten, we have been against the free-care housing schemes introduced by Anders Fogh Rasmussen throughout the whole process, and I have asked some questions during the process up to this bill. Because it could be that someone had come up with some good free-care accommodation, and out of the answers I have received, I do not see that that is the case. These are some self-serving institutions, and if we do not reduce the basic capital through this bill, they will have so little worse economic conditions, and thus we can save 14 million. kr. We would like to be part of the Enhedslisten. We are very financially responsible, so if we do not adopt this corner of this legislation, we will save 12 million. kr., and I'd like to be a part of that. So splitting the bill is our wish, so we can vote against that corner with free-care homes. Another possibility is that I persuade everyone to be against that point and to change the law, and I am happy to take part in a dialogue on that. If you look at previous agreements, some money has been earmarked. Among other things, there are: was earmarked money for availability of approx. 400 million kr. a year, and this deal goes down to 273 million. kr. I therefore do not think that we have come all the way to solving the problems. Because if we look at the housing mix and the ageing population, then there is a need for our general housing to have a high availability, and it is easier to ensure when you are in the process of renovations. So we didn't quite finish there either. We have also secured some apprenticeships, and I hope that they will stay in Denmark. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that, overall, this agreement is a plus for the million people who live in the 600,000 ordinary homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104155208	There are no brief comments. Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104155222	All good times three, that was nice, then you get to familiarize yourself with the residential area. It's a really exciting area, and it's nice to have a little change from its daily affairs. L 10: On 19 May, together with the government, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Free Greens, we all made this green housing agreement, and we think it's a really good deal. After all, our focus, like others, is that it should be green and that we should ensure energy-saving renovations of the existing housing stock. This is important, because Denmark is actually lagging quite behind here, at least if we look at it in an EU context in relation to implemented directives on energy efficiency. We are actually at the level of Malta and all respect for Malta, but there is probably a little fussy, and they probably do not have exactly the same need for heating and energy-tight housing, and the European Union is also demanding or encouraging, at least, that we really should have come a long way with this from January 2021. For 40%. of all our energy consumption in the EU goes, for example. to heat and cool buildings, and 75%. of the housing stock is ineffective. So when we sort things out here, perhaps there are also some things we can export externally. But the focus here is on how we can start a green renovation, among other things. We are pleased that the agreement gives priority to energy-efficient solutions. The wording of the comments is that there must be a greater potential for energy efficiency improvements for the selected projects than the other projects on the waiting list. In this context, a green review should be carried out which goes beyond the green screening that the 2020 project will be going through. We find it very satisfactory that greater demands are being made on energy efficiency improvements in the future. Some 6 billion have been released. kr. for renovations in 2020, and we want the Conservative People's Party to ensure that the remaining amount from the 2020 allocation is transferred to this law if the 2020 allocation is not used up in time. In this way we will ensure a green footprint that is as large as possible in relation to the Landsbygningsfonden investments. We are also very pleased that there is a great deal of focus on the islands and also on preserving smaller and cheap housing in the larger cities. The cities must be for everyone. At the same time, as rapporteurs, we have received a concern about the extension of general housing on the islands if it is called for that the municipalities should account for 100 per cent. of the rental. We would like to look at the appropriateness of this part in the forthcoming committee's work. This bill will then give effect to the Green Housing Agreement and we hereby support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104155525	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104155540	Thank you. Now I don't have to adjust that fuck, so I can't even say anything funny about it. New citizens don't support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104155552	Thank you. There is no comment on it, so we are now through the rapporteur's line, and the last person to speak here at least from the platform is the Minister for Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104155606	Thank you. And thank you for the positive reception in general. That is not surprising, of course, since we have made an agreement on it. I would also like to sign up to the radical rapporteur and thank him for dinner and also thank him for a good deal and good progress. It should be borne in mind that this agreement will have a positive impact on the residents of 130 000 to 140 000 general dwellings, which will have a concrete renovation of their homes. After all, it is as many people as live in Aalborg Municipality. So I think there's some volume in this, and of course it doesn't necessarily have the same appeal to people who sit in the Besserwiss or anywhere else, like if you have those big, good conflicts, but on the other hand it's also a picture of the popular government that we have developed in Denmark, where we stand together quite broadly insisting that we have a general housing sector that is attractive to a broad section of the population and that also follows time and keeps working in the way it should. So I think there's something positive about that. I should also like to welcome the Conservative rapporteur in the housing field. The rapporteur is very welcome to stay a little longer; it is extremely exciting, I cannot disagree with that. With that, I would say that this is a legislative proposal which will give effect to the agreement we made in the spring. We are discussing a bill which will translate the 6.5 billion. kr. in 2021 to settle the remaining part of the waiting list, thus closing the now famous waiting list on these just over 18 billion. kr. Whether or not to withdraw from the list is being asked if you have not been able to send in the papers and get Form A approval this year. I have not heard that to be the case; at least it has not been the intention of the parties to the agreement, as I have seen it, and that is why it should not be in this way either. There may be many reasons why a general meeting has not been held. There may be municipalities that may have been delayed in their work. It was agreed that that waiting list should be phased out and, of course, we will have to find a way to dismantle it, whatever the exact way it is going to be and, above all, in line with the spirit of our agreement. I fully agree with that, and we also find a way to do so. There was criticism from the Enhedslisten that the waiting list system is now being changed. I believe that this can be healthy enough, because it is not the case that 5 billion is being renovated. kr. a year is renovated for about 20 billion, as I recall. kr. The main question is, of course, how the distribution should be, how much is to be financed locally, in other words by housing organisations, and how much is to be financed by the Landsbygningsfonden. And there it will be that there will be a limit to how much we can finance through the Landsbygningsfond. We can't both pay 5 billion. kr. a year for renovations and raising the framework for housing social interventions. It can't be done. If you assumed that you did the two things at the same time, you would have a very, very large debt in the Landsbygningsfonden, even up to 2045-2050. There I think it is important that we also say in some way that only the money is available and that we cannot relocate the Landsbygningsfonden, beyond what it can answer itself. I think that is important too. In addition, the law here is about the Landsbygningsfonden investment framework for the next 6 years. A total of 11.9 billion will be allocated. kr. in the years 2022-2026 to that part of the coinage and they shall then be used mutatis mutandis for renovation aid. In addition, we have set in motion investment frameworks to target the framework to create more transparency and clear priorities and to make it easier to understand what various renovation parts are being supported and how much. And then there is an overall division into different types of renovations, which goes on that there are approx. 8,1 billion. kr. for exceptional repair and repair work, including mitigation of harmful health conditions, there are 1.6 billion. kr. for accessibility works, 300 million. kr. for conversion and merger, 1 billion. kr. for the improvement of common areas, 101 million. kr. for new environment- and climate-friendly solutions and 40.4 million. kr. for new digital solutions. So it's over the remaining years. In addition, we propose that the support system be changed to simplify the categories, so that in all cases the payment rate is 3.4%, and operating aid, which the Landsbygningsfonden also has to provide, is proposed to be paid out with a flat profile, which means that all residents will benefit from the same benefit, whether they live in the department at the beginning or at the end of the support period. The Landsbygningsfonden will include in the assessment of applications a new green support criterion. In future, incentives and green measures must go hand in hand, and if two projects are deemed to have the same need for renovation aid, the greenest project will receive the support if there is no funding for both projects. In the case of applications for renovation aid, the housing organisations will have to address the issue of possible congestion of the property. This is, of course, particularly a problem that applies in the larger cities. In addition to the commitment to support the renovation of the Landsbygningsfonden, further grants for green investments will be authorised. We are talking about 50.5 million. kr. for the development and implementation of experiments with solutions that contribute to making general construction more environmentally friendly and climate-friendly, and 5 million. kr. to develop and carry out experiments with new digital solutions that promote the quality and efficiency of the operation of general construction. We are also proposing a completely new scheme which will allow the Landsbygningsfonden to provide a green guarantee within a total framework of 400 million. kr. The guarantee will make it more attractive for general housing departments to carry out energy renovation projects, also in cooperation with private actors. For the demolition of general housing, we propose the allocation of 266 million. kr. The draft law also contains proposals to amend the rules on the pooling of housing in order to maintain more small and often low-cost housing in the larger cities. The proposal extends the current rules on reduced differentiated basic municipal capital up to 2026 as well as the current rules on the reduced capital injection in free-care homes for free-care providers. The financing of the Centre for Housing Social Development will be extended to 2026 and ensure that housing social interventions are qualified and effective. Last but not least, the bill contains initiatives to strengthen the supply of general housing on the country's smaller islands and grants are granted to the islands of Fanø, Læsø, Samsø and Ærø as well as the 27 small islands. In this context, I have also taken up the comments made by several rapporteurs, and this is, of course, an issue which we are going to uncover now in the committee's work, in other words the question of how guidance works and the ability of individual small islands to build general housing in relation to it. This must, of course, be possible, because it should not be the case that the authorising rules we are making prevent any real housing from being built on any of these islands. In addition, we propose to grant subsidies for the reduction of rent in general housing in the small islands, so that this will mean that the monthly rent for an average, newly built dwelling will be in the order of DKK 1,000. lower than what it would otherwise have been without the grant. This is a comprehensive agreement that we are putting into effect here, and it must be seen in the context of the extraordinary framework that has been paid out this year, but this bill looks forward to the next few years until 2026. I would just like to conclude by thanking the parties that are included in the agreement and are also present here today in the Chamber. I think it is a very good deal that we got the country, and although we can of course each see some more than other places where it could have been better, I think we got a point that made sense to us and that will strengthen the general housing sector as an attractive offer to a broad group of the population. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104160447	There are a few questions. The first question is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104160451	The Minister is right that this is a big deal and this new construction fund, where we will then have to discuss how we should spend the money earlier than previously expected, is of course incredibly exciting, and I could not in five minutes highlight everything. It sounds almost as if the Minister thinks it is an advantage to change the waiting list rules in order to make something new, and it is not, of course, because we in the Enhedslisten do not want to, we would like to change a lot, but I could also imagine that other types of loans for the general sector were involved: what about 30-year loans, it could not be something that became commonplace to strengthen the economy? I think we really have a commitment that this green guarantee is something that is going to fly, because that is where you could be involved in creating and helping to ensure that there are more energy renovations in the general sector than those that the Landsby Fund can support. After all, there is also an obligation when you are a minister of a ministry where there are some people employed there is, as such, a communication task there that we must have solved. Can the Minister see that this is a special task that we have, as well as drawing attention to new financing conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104160556	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104160558	Well, I fully agree with that, and that is also a large part of the offer being made to those departments which have no direct access to the renovation framework which is for the general housing companies and which in the first place will renovate approx. 72,000 and later maybe, for the remaining, approx. Sixty thousand. But there are still, in round figures, about three quarters of general housing which do not have access to that funds, and there is, of course, the fact that it is possible to make green investments within that framework. It has been done so that you have a deficit guarantee in such a way that you take the first 20% yourself. of the loss, but if you have losses besides it, it will be covered by the Landsbygningsfonden. It is made mathematically that way because we want someone to try some things out, also something that goes beyond what the accountant can necessarily always approve, but which also has some slightly longer perspectives. I hope, of course, that will be part of what comes into play in connection with this. I believe that the housing society's national association has some pretty good channels to ensure that information is provided to the housing organizations and that everyone can be at the table. So I'm actually comfortable with that the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104160708	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104160711	Then there is the matter of the free-care homes, which did not form part of the agreement and therefore is something that has been prepared and where we have been asked what we thought about what was coming. There I have to say, when I read the answers I have received so far, that I find it difficult to see that it is an advantage to promote free-care homes. I would therefore like to know whether the Minister is involved in dividing the bill into two, so that this corner will be just like it is for itself, or whether the Minister will really come up with some good reasons why we should support this kind of private building.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104160743	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104160744	I am glad that Enhedslisten came and wanted to save money on public budgets; that is something I think is very positive, and that must also be acknowledged. I cannot see at this stage whether it makes sense to divide it up, and I must be guilty of replying to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. But, of course, I understand that, if you are against it, it can be difficult for reasons of principle to see it in the proposal as well. But I do not really know whether one can divide it up in a meaningful way; it is basically about basic capital, and I think it is important to maintain that there is one's basic capital over a number of years, and that it is as relatively low as it is now, and that is an average of 10%.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104160828	Then it's Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104160831	Thank you. And thank you for the presentation. I asked a question from the platform, and I understand if it has not just been remembered that a great many things have been mentioned, and there have been many long speeches from the rapporteur. In relation to the merger of general housing, I understand the problem in Copenhagen, but what I just do not quite understand is that, as I read the text, it is proposed that, regardless of which municipal council is concerned with a merger outside the exposed residential areas, it is the Minister who has to give permission to do so. I do not quite understand that when I also have the impression that it is Copenhagen that is facing this challenge. What are the considerations behind this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104160918	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104160919	I don't think it's just Copenhagen. It is generally both municipalities in the metropolitan area, but also in other major cities. There has been a tendency for many small dwellings to be combined, which at the same time have been some of the cheapest dwellings. Now I just mention my own home town in order not to blame anyone else specifically: there was a situation a few years ago, where 200 small apartments were put together for 100 apartments, and where the motivation both of the housing organization and the municipality was that there were people living there, who were expensive for the municipality, with which there were some very large costs, and who worked hard on the homes. I think we should be careful to combine as many small homes as there are sometimes combined. But I have, for example. in Hirtshals, and there are the residential areas where they cannot rent out a quarter of the homes, and there or in other smaller towns it would make sense to merge, if that is what makes it go up. However, when it comes to our largest cities, where there is a huge demand for low rent housing, I think it is backwards that we are closing small apartments at the same time, and I think the rapporteur agrees with that. Then it's made in the way that it's from the Ministry's side. Now it's not me personally, but the living room minister at all times who has to be given the specific permission for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104161041	Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104161042	Could it not be an idea to sort out which municipalities are specially targeted, so as not to impose unnecessary bureaucracy on them, for example. the smaller municipalities, which should have a little easier access to do this because they do not have the same challenges in relation to the lack of small housing?
ParlaMint-DK_20201104161104	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104161106	Yes, it may well be a better way to do it. I think we should try to discuss this. But it is very diverse in which municipalities it makes sense. A town such as Nakskov has 13,000 inhabitants. It's not a village; it's a half-grown town and there you've had to demolish and add up a lot of homes, because there's less demand for housing than there is for housing. So, in this way, I think it is important that we do not set too strict limits, because there may be cases where there are also some large semi-large cities that need to adapt their amount of general housing. But let us at last discuss how this can be done in the best possible way. At any rate, I think it is important for us to stick to the fact that in small societies where, perhaps for historical reasons or for other reasons, many general housing has been built, for which there is no longer any demand, we must, of course, still be able to adapt it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104161200	Then we'll thank the Minister for Housing. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201104161215	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday, 5 November 2020, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
