ParlaMint-DK_20201209100003	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Business (Simon Kollerup): Bill no. L 116 (Proposal for a law amending the Competition Act and the Criminal Code. Transport Minister (Benny Engelbrecht): Bill No. L 117 (Proposal for a Law amending the Taxi Code. Minister for Finance (Nicolai Wammen): Bill No. L 118 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Economic Council and the Environmental Economic Council. Tax Minister (Morten Bødskov): Bill no. L 119 (Proposal for a Law amending the Customs Code. Peter Skaarup (DF) and Karina Adsbøl (DF): Request no. F 28 (What can the Minister say about the government's position on minimum sentences, including for example for insanity motorism, gross violence and sexuality crimes?). Titles on the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20201209100102	The debate is open. Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209100115	First of all, thank you very much to the authors of the motion for a resolution for making this proposal. I and the government very much agree with the proposers that the green should have a more prominent place in public kitchens. We are seeing more and more Danes choosing a plant-based green diet, and they are doing so in the interests of the climate, and so are they for health reasons. We know that climate and diet are very related, and we also know that this is related to public health. If you want to minimize the risk of cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and other things, it is wise to eat more plant-based, and therefore it is important that there are also these options. With 800,000 daily meals, public kitchens play an important role in promoting green consumption and in contributing to the government's high climate ambitions. Today it is a local decision whether there should be a green alternative, whether food should be organic, or whether special cultural or religious considerations should be taken in relation to the provision of meals in municipal kitchens, for example. schools and day care centres. This also applies in kitchens on e.g. hospitals belonging to the regions. It is therefore also a pleasure to see that there are already several examples of local communities and regions and kitchens wanting and being able to set goals and ambitions in relation to their food supply. In many places local meals are already available with less meat and plant-rich meals at all. In the government we have a desire to enter into dialogue with the National Association of Municipalities and Danske Regions on how the common state food policy, which we have presented with a strategy for green public procurement, can be extended to the entire public sector. We want to support the municipalities, regions and local cuisine so that they feel dressed up for a greater focus on green meals, and it still needs to be run locally. We do, among other things. in a collaboration between my Ministry of Food, Climate, Energy and Supply, Aarhus Municipality and the City of Copenhagen. The purpose of the cooperation is to develop concrete tools that all the municipalities in the country can use with green ambitions within the food and meal area. It is about how to calculate food waste, how to make green demands in procurement contracts, and how to communicate to both citizens and employees about why there is a need to make meals more plant-rich. I therefore fully agree with the intention of the motion for a resolution. There should always be an opportunity to choose a plant-based meal, which is both saturate, healthy and nutritious, and I am delighted that many public kitchens are already carrying out this task and have very great ambitions in this area. It is super-inspiring and motivating, and I believe that the positive local option is the best way to achieve the goal. The green meal in the public kitchens must be full of taste and served with professional pride. So if I still reject the proposal here, although I think there are a lot of good tactics and, above all, a very important agenda in this proposal, then it is on the grounds that we must stick to the principle that there must be freedom of local decision-making on the supply of public kitchens. Not least here, when we enter a municipal and regional election year at the turn of the year, it is important to highlight the importance of municipal self-government, and let us hope, also with this agenda, that there are more people using the municipal and regional election campaign to put this on the agenda and to discuss: What are we doing to promote the possibility of green, climate-friendly, healthy meals in public kitchens? It could be a very good and important agenda to be included in the municipal and regional elections. But let us not undermine local self-government and let us have the opportunity to take decisions locally, in a decentralised manner, and that is in the light that we think we should be careful with this initiative that lies in the motion for a resolution. But the agenda is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209100551	Thank you, Minister. There are brief comments, first from Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209100554	Thank you and thank the Minister for a positive speech. I wonder a little what this is about Nicolai Wammen going out in October and saying that he wanted every state canteen to have two meat-free days a week. I don't see the connection with freedom and then that statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209100617	I have to say, for the sake of good order, that ministers are charged with their title, here the Minister for Finance, and not with their name. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209100627	There is no doubt that this government has very high climate ambitions. We also have ambitions to have a healthy diet on the agenda. What is particularly fortunate here is that what is good climate diets is also healthy diets, which is why we have a great ambition to promote precisely that. What we are a little careful about is also what I mentioned in my speech, especially now that we are entering a municipal and regional election year, is so to ensure that we do not undermine local self-government. There must be the possibility of decisions on some of these matters being taken by the individual city council, the individual municipal council, the individual regional council. There we have to be careful that we from Slotsholmen pull things down over someone's head in relation to what you want to do locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209100721	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209100722	Thank you. Now I do not think that our decisions should be marked by whether we are in a municipal election year or not. I think we should think about the visions we have about it and, as a starting point, I agree with the Minister that decentralisation and freedom are important. But I think that we are faced with a dilemma here, whether it is freedom for the municipalities or it is freedom for the individual citizen, and it is of course problematic when the municipalities do not decide on this. For then we minimize freedom for the individual citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209100753	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209100754	I fully agree with Mrs Susanne Zimmer that our decisions should of course not be dependent on whether or not there is a municipal election year. I'm all for that. When I mention it, it is just because it is worth remembering how important local self-government is, and in this context I am rooting for and cheering for the government to have this agenda set in the municipal election campaign, in the regional election campaign, and to help inspire more green elections for the individual in municipalities and regions. It's important. Let's make this local, decentralized self-government sprout and grow.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209100829	Carl Valentin, SF, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209100829-2	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his speech. I think it was inspiring, and I really think it is quite historic to have a Minister for Food speaking so positively about the plant-based; thank you for the visions and recognition of the importance of this agenda. I think that is a very good development. In the SF, too, we have had a lot of debate on this issue of local self-government, and I understand the Minister's arguments. However, we have come to the conclusion that we actually support this because we think it is different from many other debates on local self-government, because this is about a right. It's about a right for the individual citizen locally to be able to choose the plant-based, not to experience going to a nursing home or hospital or something like that, and couldn't get a nutritious meal that matches your values. Does the Minister not think that this is a little different from being a right and that it might therefore be possible to support the idea that there should always be an offer of plant-based food in public kitchens?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209100931	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209100933	I am very pleased with the Socialist People's Party and Mr. Carl Valentin's speech here, because it is important to have a more climate-oriented diet, to think it in, also because it is incredibly good for our public health to eat more plant-based. What is just important is that these choices are made in dialogue, that you talk about things and that you also meet all of us who still want to eat meat and are happy about it. It is a good idea for decisions to be taken close to the citizens, and that is why we are concerned by the government's focus on decentralised elections, municipal self-government, so that decisions can be taken close to the citizens and in dialogue with the citizens, also so that it does not seem like a salvation that people are trying to push down their heads. Because there are some people out there who say, "What are they going to interfere with my food choices for?" And there it is important to have this dialogue, and there is having a debate all the way out in the municipalities and out in the regions an important element.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209101035	Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209101035-2	I very much agree that we should have dialogue, and I do not think we should force anything on people's heads either. We do not do that here either, because we are precisely guaranteeing an option. What I may just be worried about is the smaller municipalities; it is not us Copenhageners. If, for example, I... being admitted to Bispebjerg Hospital, I can get a vegan meal, but what about some of the citizens who live in municipalities, perhaps with a bourgeois government or a lot of politicians who are not so positive about this agenda: Shouldn't they also have the right to a plant-based meal, no matter where you live in the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209101109	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209101110	I mean, when it comes to food in the hospitals, like mr. Carl Valentin refers to, after all, it is a decision that falls below the regions, which, after all, has a somewhat larger size and where there is the possibility of making some choices, which are also taken into account here. There it will not be a small municipality that makes that decision. But it could be other things: it could be a day care centre, it could be a school, or it could be something else. We need to have a look at this, but I very much hope that we will have a municipal and regional elections here in the coming year with a great deal of focus on this and that we will have the opportunity to discuss the importance of the climate and of health in relation to our diet.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209101147	Torsten Gejl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209101148	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. The alternative, of course, supports this proposal, which has also grown in our seas and on our resources. And we are interested in this personal choice, because it is true that we are very much in favour of local self-government, but we are also very much in favour of personal choice. And this isn't about pushing anyone, for example. Don't eat meat. This is about those who are in the state canteens having the opportunity to eat plant-based. Why is it that the Minister thinks that the room for manoeuvre of local self-government is more important than the individual's ability to choose a plant-based meal in state cuisine?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209101241	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209101241-2	We think it is important to have the option of choosing the plant-based. We think it is important that you can choose to put your diet together with a focus on climate and with a focus on health. But we also think it is important that we in the municipalities should be able to take this debate and the same thing with the regions. That is why we are saying: there is a great deal of the intention in this resolution in which we can easily see ourselves, because it is a good agenda and it is important to have that opportunity as a citizen. What we just want to see is that decisions are taken by the entities responsible. So, if it is the local primary school or the local day care institution, then it is the municipalities; if it is the local hospital, then it is the regions that get the decentralised decision over, also because it creates better dialogue, it creates better conversation, where the individual citizen is more involved in the transformation, if that is the case. So we attach great importance to local self-government as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209101336	Sir. Torsten Gejl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209101337	Yeah, so do we. But I just want to know whether the Minister shares the concerns of other parties, for example. SF, also has, that when we do this, we run the risk that there are a number of municipalities that do not get out of the starting blocks at all, that is to say, which get nowhere and continue to do so for quite a long time. In other words, we are simply opening up the possibility that in some places it may take a very long time for people to have a plant-based choice. What do we do with that? How do we move on to those places that aren't gonna move on their own?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209101409	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209101410	But there we are on the part of the government not as worried and as sceptical as we are on the side of the alternative. I had actually understood that the virtues of the alternative were also about hope and optimism. And when we are faced with a municipal election year and a regional election year, we have to believe that these debates are being held, including in the small municipalities, even in the municipalities that do not have so much money. Because there is an important agenda here we can do something good, not just for the climate, but also for our own health; to prevent cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular diseases we need this opportunity. So this is a debate that we would really like to have in focus, and we on the part of the government are obviously more optimistic than the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209101448	Then it's Kathrine Olldag, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209101450	Thank you so much. I would also like to thank you very much for an actually rather progressive speech. It was very positive, tempting to be surprising, but perhaps not anyway, since it is a new minister. So I am very pleased that our new minister has taken over the agenda from the old minister. Thank you. When we stand here and when the proposers have tabled this motion for a resolution, it is also on behalf of a great many citizens who cannot actually get through with it and who rely on us in the Chamber to help them get through an agenda. And that is because, even though the Minister says that this must be decided in an election year locally where the citizens are, it is not possible to actually get through with it in the small municipalities. For example, when you are a citizen asking, the officials tell you that local politicians do not have the mind to do this, and then you stand there with your needs and your demand and hit a wall. Then you try to set the agenda in here, and then the ball gets sent back. What is the Minister's position on this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209101558	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209101559	I am, of course, very sorry and sorry if there are citizens who experience that they cannot meet their needs in terms of being able to choose plant-based diets. It's sad, and it's hard. Now, I think we have to bear in mind that four years ago, when we were last faced with a municipal and regional elections, we were not so far aware of the importance of the green choice, including when it comes to food, how important it is to the climate and how important it is to health. There I think that when we enter this municipal and regional election year, there is a completely different awareness, so that those citizens who at the moment feel that they do not have the opportunity to do these things have the opportunity to put that agenda in the context of the local election campaign. And I very much hope that they will do so, because it is an important debate, and that debate can also lead to more people, not only when they eat food in the public sector but also when they buy private food, becoming more aware, because the debate helps to shift attitudes so that they slowly but surely think: I can sneak in a little more vegetables; I can eat a little more plant-based, because it is good for the climate, it is good for the environment, and it is good for health.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209101707	Olldag illdag, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209101708	Thank you so much. Although this is a very good debate today, I can of course calculate that it may not be just today that we will have a right, even though, like Carl Valentin, I personally tend to believe that this is the way we should go. But when the Minister then opens the door for us to get to grips with this agenda when we are going to talk about public green procurement, then the Minister can also count on us, at least in a group of support parties, to put a very sharp focus on this and also to make a pact with the municipalities, a bit like that, as we are, for example. worked with the eco-lift, so the municipalities are going to go actively into this agenda then it may well be that it needs to be relaxed in a different way. What is the Minister's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209101749	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209101750	I am very open about this. This is the case, and it is not a secret that the government has launched that over the coming year we will come with new dietary advice and we also had a debate about this last week, where we will put more emphasis on climate-oriented and healthy things. And those dietary councils can help to inspire in this very, very important debate in connection with the municipal elections. And if I am asked whether I want to take part in such debates, including as part of the municipal and regional elections, I would much rather take part in this, because I believe that the debate can also help to bring about a transformation of the population in relation to being more climate- and health-conscious.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209101826	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209101827	I also think that the Minister showed some kindness, and this debate is, of course, a question of whether it should be a "must" or a "should" clause. I think that there are several nuances in this, because I think that there is a difference between whether you go down into a canteen and say that you really want to choose the plant-based one or whether we are dealing with citizens, such as myself. come to nursing homes, which have been vegetarians for the past 40 years and would like to continue to be so, and who are going to live in nursing homes for a long time. There I really think there is a difference between having the free choice down in the canteen and being the citizen who, as such, comes in the life situation of having to have a daily life in a new place and having a healthy diet. I think it is very good that the proposal here stresses that it should be a satisfying and nutritious diet. I kind of see a difference in this. There is, in fact, a problem with some citizens that we should work very seriously on, that they will have some extra rights, because it is not just a question of what you want to eat today. It is, in fact, a question of how they should live. Can't the Minister see that nuance?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209101927	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209101928	I think it is quite obvious that in our nursing homes too, where you might imagine that there is a slightly more conservative approach to the diet, over the coming years there will be a completely different focus on making climate-friendly green choices that are also good for public health. Moreover, when we talk about the senior segment of our society, it is also people who have grown up at a time when we did not eat as much meat as we do today. Having so much meat involved in our diet is a 40-50-year-old phenomenon. Before that, it was quite natural to eat much more plant-based. So I think there's gonna be a lot more focus on that. What is our hope is that it can also become part of the municipal and regional election campaign to discuss whether we should have a better chance of choosing this one. For it must of course be the case that if you are to eat at work or at your institution, whether it is a nursing home or a daycare institution or other, there must be the possibility that you can choose something plant-based or climate-friendly. Of course you have to be able to.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209102028	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209102029	What I am trying to say is that it is a little different in those situations where a person goes to the hospital and needs to get well again. So if he has been a vegetarian or vegan for many years of his life, that is not where he puts his diet to start eating meatballs. In this respect, it is important, for example, what a diet is to be offered. in our hospitals. So I could see that this proposal could land with some nuances, which means that rights are introduced in some places, but not in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209102102	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209102103	I understand what Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen says, and to the extent that there are hospitals that don't offer this climate-friendly diet, this plant-based diet, it's a discussion we have to take. There I think it is obvious to use the regional election campaign to discuss whether we should not make sure that some meals are put together in our hospitals, so that you can both get well it is very important for your health what you eat, and it is also important in relation to the refund that you have to go through, that you eat a nutritious diet and so there is also the possibility of doing so in a climate-oriented and plant-based way. Let us have that discussion in the regional election campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209102141	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we are now starting with the rapporteurs. First, it's sir. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209102152	Thank you so much. It is always fear-provocative to come to the floor of the Parliament when the Minister has been the previous speaker and even received so much praise for his speech. Then we must see whether the Socialist rapporteur can maintain the positive picture after he has used his speaking time here. However, I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Susanne Zimmer on putting a very exciting motion for a resolution back on the agenda, in which we will also have an opportunity in this Chamber to discuss something as important as getting more green into our kitchens. There is no doubt that when we talk about diet and green in the diet, it is really a very good cocktail in terms of meeting and reaching some of the climate challenges that we have. This is also where you can be aware of the local, if you may say so, activism that you can have in order to make a difference to our climate. And last week, when we also had a debate on green foods, we also mentioned the examples that we know from research that many people can do a great deal by doing a little, rather than getting a lot done. There is no doubt that with the 800,000 meals that we have in the public kitchens in Denmark, a difference can be made when we talk climate. What Social Democracy also believes in in this regard is that it is indeed important to maintain strong local commitment. Something as important as the diet is something that we all care a lot about, it is something that is discussed, so sometimes sweat gets on the forehead of local day-care boards and on the local school boards, and it is also something that you like. in Aarhus and Copenhagen Municipalities have spent a very long time discussing and actually also making some visionary procurement contracts. I myself have had the pleasure of visiting some of the positive examples, for example. Bispebjerg Hospital, where you have been very ambitious and where you have been able to excel locally in ecology, where you have given some really good sensory and taste experiences to the patients who are hospitalised. All this development has taken place with an incredibly large local ownership in relation to the staff, in relation to the regional board, in relation to the employees in general, where you also in the last part, i.e. those who serve the food, have worked on how to decorate the food very well in this regard. Because you not only eat with your mouth, you eat with your other senses, for example. the eyes where you feel like really throwing yourself over the meal. So it's just one example that this isn't black and white. It's actually important that we get a strong local commitment to this part. Another very good example that I have visited and which I would like to recommend to Members of the House to visit, if you are interested in this, is Godhavn. Godhavn was on everyone's lips about a year ago when the Prime Minister apologized to the Godhavn boys. Godhavn still exists today, and Godhavn is very advanced in terms of actually thinking the diet into the educational work on the site, where you teach the young people what it means to sit at a table and eat a healthy, nutritious meal, have codecision over the meal. You know that the diet is actually part of the whole education, the education that you work with, which I think is very important that you also think about. It is developed by a large local ownership on site among the employees, among the management, among the children living on the site. I just believe that, at the speed at which this is going, it is very important that curiosity is promoted, lust is promoted, that we have a hope and that we should not set rigid rules from here, but should actually have the courage to believe that people on the regional councils, on the municipal councils, on the school boards, out in the day institutions actually take this agenda very seriously and promote curiosity, so that we actually make a difference to each other on these major issues. I would like to sign Mrs Susanne Zimme to put this proposal on the agenda because, by standing in here today and having the debate on this important subject, I think we are also helping to move some fence posts.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209102656	Thank you. There is a brief comment on Mrs Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209102657	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for a positive speech. I think that the positive flow has been maintained well in relation to the Minister's speech. In relation to the concept of freedom, which we in the Free Greens think is important, it is, after all, a question of whether it is freedom for the individual citizen or whether it is freedom for the municipality. However, my question concerns the concept of freedom when the government of Minister Nicolai Wammen stated that there should be two meat-free days, i.e. that it would be an injunction in all state cafeterias. Where will freedom be there, and what is the difference between freedom in state cuisine and freedom, when it comes to deciding whether or not to make a green diet?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209102746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209102747	It is quite true that Minister Nicolai Wammen made a proposal to make two meat-free days in the state kitchens, and it is true to say that the state kitchens are located on the Finance Minister's resort area. The questioner asks me whether I would mind if I could interpret this question at least if the municipal council decides to introduce, for example. meat-free days in the municipality of Vejen, for example, or it could be the municipality of Esbjerg where I come from, or for that matter a small municipality, for example. Fanø Municipality. And I wouldn't mind them doing that, but I think it's something to discuss locally. And I also think it is obvious, hopefully also in relation to the upcoming municipal election campaign, that this green diet is going to fill a lot. What I just think is important to say is that this is a discussion that is so close to the citizens that it must primarily be conducted in a decentralised manner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209102842	I should just like to make it clear to both the questioner and the rapporteur that the Minister for Finance and not the name are said. The Minister's title, that is, the Minister for the Environment, the Minister for Finance, etc., is limited. It may be difficult, but so informed is the next speaker, Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209102857	Thank you. And thank you for reminding me. I am actually asking about the rapporteur's position on freedom. In other words, if you think it is a good idea to impose on state kitchens, which are also many units where self-determination could be achieved, to make two meat-free days, why not also require public kitchens in general to offer the choice of a green meal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209102929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209102930	Thank you, Mr President, for your clarification. And thank you to the questioner for the follow-up question. Let us remember that the proposal made by the Minister for Finance has been withdrawn. I also think it is very good to illustrate that if there is too much top down, there may be opposition to this agenda. And there I believe that things are often best done by allowing them to sprout and grow from below, and that is what I am arguing for here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209103006	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209103007	Thank you, and thank you for your speech, in which the rapporteur actually gives a longer tribute to plant-based food, with excellent examples of how we manage to serve some of it around us, and finally concludes that the government should do nothing to ensure a plant-based choice in the public kitchens, which this resolution is all about. And the rapporteur also says: well, there may be resistance if we say that people should actually have the right to a plant-based choice. But if it were the case that the opposition stopped us here in the Folketing, we would probably not get very far with much legislation. We would probably not have legislation at all. Well, resistance is part of the criteria when you want important things through, and you have to deal with that. So why not use the policy from in here as a lever to somehow ensure that people out there have a plant-based choice? This isn't about forcing someone not to eat meat. That is very, very important: this proposal is not about forcing anyone to do anything. It's about giving people a choice in terms of being able to eat plant-based.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209103117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209103118	Thank you so much. I think the rapporteur for the alternative has misunderstood me, because social democracy is by no means opposed to greenness in the diet. In fact, we believe that this should be promoted. If there had not been corona, Mr. Erling Bonnesen, and I actually also made a very big push to simply present some of these new green initiatives that are in the green kitchen. I think that we should be involved in promoting this, and that is what we are promoting, among other things. after New Year, with new climate-friendly dietary councils, where we can actually create a curiosity about this with the Danes. But with that logic, if I arrest the logic of the rapporteur for the Alternative here, this is the same as just deciding everything here in Things, abolishing the municipalities, abolishing the regions, abolishing the day-care boards and abolishing the school boards, because we know best in here in the great Things. Of course we don't. We need local codecision on such important things as the diet that is so close.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209103226	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209103227	The rapporteur would certainly like to be able to decide everything, but do not place that strawman with the alternative, because we have never proposed that. All I'm saying is that the rapporteur is standing in this area, praising plant-based food and ending by saying that with this resolution, the government will do nothing. It is hoped that someone who is not aware of will do something will do something in a long municipal election campaign, and it is well known that it is very different around the municipalities how much one will do on this point. So that is why I would like to know whether the rapporteur has something that might help this on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209103305	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209103306	Of course it's different. That is why we praise municipal autonomy. This means that things are not necessarily done in the same way in all municipalities. And, of course, there must also be differences in the regions. That is why we want to preserve the regions so that there is also some local self-determination. So I want something else, and that is actually why I am using the time in here to say that I can see that the intentions are right in this proposal, but that I think the decision-making power is wrong. In other words, I want to promote curiosity in relation to the decentralized links.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209103340	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And that is why we now move on to Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209103354	Thank you. Freedom and local self-determination we like in the Left. Here the proposers want all public kitchens to allow citizens to choose a plant-based meal. It's fine with more green on the plate, and it's fine with a more plant-based diet, a varied diet. I fully agree with the previous speakers that this is also something that is gaining more and more. But it is also important that you decide for yourself locally. As I have already indicated, we in the Left like freedom, precisely in the context of local self-determination. I also know from my own experience in the municipal council and earlier at the mayor's office that you will also be approached, and there are discussions on both kindergarten, schools, the care of the elderly, on the conditions of dietary composition and dietary plans that they are, of course, the best at taking a position on at each institution, which I fully agree with, and which we in the Left also fully agree with. So it is fine with more green on the plate, but also fine with local self-determination. And on that basis there is no reason why we should introduce more rules here from Christiansborg in this area; we should leave the initiative to the local institutions and municipal and regional councils, as has already been shown in the debate. Against this background, we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209103523	There are brief comments, first from Mrs Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209103526	Thank you. And thank the rapporteur for praising the green diet; that is nice. However, the rapporteur does not see a dilemma between giving freedom to municipalities and citizens' freedom to choose the green diet, for example. Is in a nursing home?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209103545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209103547	No, I do not, because as the debate earlier on has shown, and I fully agree with that, there is so much focus on it, and it is part of the debate that is held locally. As has also been pointed out, even more attention will be paid to the coming year's time up to the forthcoming municipal and regional elections; there it is quite natural that I know this from my own experience, from earlier years that these matters will be discussed. So this is part of the local debate. And the fact that you have the right to determine it entirely locally makes it quite topical and topical to have it discussed locally. So I'm not worried about that at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209103628	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209103630	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have been quite optimistic because in May 2019 the Danish Vegetarian Association interviewed Bertel Haarder, where he was asked: "How about politically promoting green choices in public kitchens?" And he replied: "I am positive about it, but I think you can go a long way along the road of volunteering. So perhaps I had hoped for a different position from that of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209103700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209103702	It can be said that the questioner has read out very well, that this must be done by the way of voluntary service, and that is quite in line with what I have already said about local self-determination and what I have already said.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209103715	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209103715-2	In other words, as a liberal party, the Left always talks about the freedom of the individual... the freedom of the individual. After all, this proposal is about the freedom of the individual, that is to say the freedom to choose green, plant-based food, in the canteens, the freedom of the individual. Now it may not be in harmony with agricultural interests, and suddenly there are other things that are more important to the Left than the freedom of the individual. Is that not such a selective liberal attitude? Is it real liberalism when you are always ready to sacrifice the freedom of the individual, if so, for example. Are large financial interests at stake?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209103757	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209103758	I think that the questioner got things together rather thoroughly, so I can just say: yes, freedom for the individual, freedom for local self-determination, and that is why, of course, it is in the municipalities and regions and in the individual institutions that you put together your own diet plan, and of course you do so in a good dialogue with the individual users, and that gives it a very topical meaning in the debate you get around it. I also know from previous experience that this is the best way to organise it and that you yourself want it, I also know from your own experience.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209103836	Sir. Torsten Gejl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209103837	I do not think that is quite an answer. The Left has so often praised the freedom of the individual... the freedom of the individual... and that you stand here and take that freedom from the individual... the freedom to choose green... in exchange for the rules that the Left says in many other contexts that we should not push down over people's heads, I think is a kind of selective liberalism. I can't quite understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209103904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209103904-2	No, it is quite possible that the questioner does not understand it, but I myself understand our own policy in the Left very well. We attach decisive importance to the freedom of the individual and I do not agree with the interpretation put forward by the questioner here; I think it is contradictory. I have indicated in previous answers that we attach the utmost importance to the fact that this is decided and handled locally, and that, of course, it is also done in a good dialogue with local citizens and users of the various offers. It is also my own experience that it gives the best results.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209103940	Then it's Kathrine Olldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209103940-2	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for his speech. I would also like to arrest the liberal position in this context, because it is true that the Left, as the old party of government, has always been quite diligent to intervene extremely detailedly in municipal self-government. So it's often an argument that gets caught up in, you feel a little when you see it from the outside, i.e. something that's kind of convenient sometimes, and sometimes something you look at big. And in this context, I understand that it can be difficult to mess with some of the major electoral groups in the Left in relation to this agenda, where I could imagine that the hinterland is rather divided. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: is it not precisely liberal to allow the individual to have a free choice of a plant-based meal when he is admitted to the hospital? Isn't it uliberal to be forced to eat something you haven't eaten for maybe 20 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209104037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209104038	As I have already pointed out several times, we attach decisive importance to the freedom of the individual, even in the area of diet, in terms of having it discussed thoroughly and intensively, what we do when we are responsible for it ourselves. So, following on from the answers I have already given, I would say that when you are responsible locally, you get into it, and then you put energy into getting the best composition in terms of diets and so on. Well, that's clearly what I'm listening to when I come around with exactly the green agenda, the more plant-based diet, then I can see that it's gaining ground. It does, and that's what you take into account. So I look at that with joy and satisfaction. And that is not where we should take the initiative, but just say: they must be allowed to develop their different ideas in this area in relation to the composition of a varied diet, where there is also more and more green. It's fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209104131	Kathrine On Olldag.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209104132	That sounds tremendously positive. Then I would like to ask constructively and positively about this, namely: how will the Left, as the very large municipal governing mayor's party, actively work to ensure that this agenda becomes relevant in the forthcoming election campaign, where perhaps a new generation of Left politicians will also come along?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209104149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209104151	Well, that is already part of the active ongoing debate, and that will only be further intensified, I think. I am quite sure that it will be in the forthcoming election campaign, even when the issues are under discussion locally, because there is an interest in it and it is exerting its influence there. We also know this from the various boards, which are in both the kindergartens and the schools and in the user councils, which are at the elderly centres; these matters are discussed here. And it becomes more present when you are also responsible for it. We know this from our own experience, so it is already on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209104227	Then it's mr. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209104227-2	Thank you. That's what I hear, sir. Erling Bonnesen says that one attaches crucial importance to personal freedom, but that one does not want to make the choice on the part of Christiansborg. So that's why I want to hear Mr. Erling Bonnesen, if he would encourage local decision-making to introduce plant-based food in public kitchens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209104247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209104248	Well, we deal with that in the same way that I have already explained. It is good that it is discussed locally in terms of both the municipal council and the individual institutions. It may be in a user council or a school board, or it may be what you have now of designations and different organizations, so that you discuss the things and, of course, listen to the citizens and users you have in the local place and thus get it put together. As I have also indicated, it is fine and right that more plant-based diets should be included in a varied diet in the future. In this way it becomes quite present, also that you have to take responsibility locally, and in this way also the best dietary plans come out of it eventually with the greatest satisfaction for those who use the offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209104338	Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209104338-2	I think it's being talked a little bit around. It is said that it is good to have the discussion locally and that it is good to involve citizens and such things. I am quite sure that all the members of the Folketing agree with that. But does the Left not have an opinion as to whether it would be a good thing to offer a plant-based dish in each place? So, the Left thinks it's gonna be a good thing? Because Christiansborg is merely refusing to make the decision; I understand that you can have some fundamental reasons for that. But does the Left, from a local point of view, think that would be a good idea in general? Would it be sensible to introduce an offer of plant-based food in public kitchens?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209104416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209104417	If I understand the questioner correctly, I would almost like to force it into place here in Christiansborg, and that is what we do not like in the Left. We would rather let things grow quietly from below, and I also note that the seeds are sown and they are water and that the plants become, if I may say so, nourished. So the green agenda is growing; I think we can all agree on that. And that's fine, and it's good, and then it should be allowed to evolve from there. And it won't be any better to make one-way decisions in this area from Christiansborg. On the contrary, the local commitment must be supported, as I have already replied.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209104455	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mrs Lise Bech, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209104502	Thank you, President. This proposal for a green option in all public kitchens, I'm pretty sure everyone here agrees with is a good idea. I am also quite sure that chefs and nutritionists, chefs and employees in the public kitchens are very attentive to making good and nutritious diets with green options. But this proposal is not just about a green option. It is about being a plant-based meal, that is, a vegetarian or a vegan meal. Today, a few percent of the population are vegetarians or vegans. Then you have a great desire to have a plant-based meal at the nursing home, hospital or in the day care institution, you should of course express that wish to the chef. In any case, there is no reason to impose, for example. care homes to produce plant-based meals if it is not a desire of the elderly residents. There is a great chance that there are very many nursing homes where there are some residents who do not want it, since it is just a few percent who are vegans or vegetarians. In nursing homes it is important to have delicious and inviting meals because more than half of nursing homes have chewing and swallowing problems. Therefore, it is important that it is targeted to the residents. And I also know that there are a lot of nursing homes that have something they call wishing food for the same reason, as many older people are small eating. Then there is an older resident who wants plant-based diet, it is very many places also an option. However, I do not think that this is something that needs to be legislated on, and it has been suggested here earlier today that it is something that should come out locally. It must come as wishes locally, so we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209104713	Thank you to the rapporteur. There was just a request for a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209104716	Thank you to Mrs Lise Bech for her rapporteur's speech. I am sure the rapporteur is right in saying that there are many nursing homes and care centres that offer green diets, but that is not all, and that is why Danske Senierer and Elders Case actually recommends that we require a green meal to be offered, including at care centres.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209104743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209104744	In other words, elderly people and relatives at nursing centres and nursing homes can go in and talk to the kitchen staff, management and nutrition assistants so that they know what the needs of the elderly are.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209104808	There's one more question that came just at the last minute. Sir. Carl Valentin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209104813	Thank you. I think that the Danish People's Party is slightly failing some of our older fellow citizens here. Because it is true that there are some elderly people who are so fortunate that they can get the offer of plant-based diets, but for example the Danish Vegetarian Association highlighted a woman who has lived vegetarian for 35 years. She is used to making vegetarian food from good ingredients and eating healthy and well. Then she goes to a nursing home and feels pressured to eat chicken and fish to get enough nourishment. So it can be a hard experience for a vegetarian if you choose not to eat meat for ethical reasons and then you end up depriving yourself of the freedom to make the choice that you do not want to eat meat. Doesn't the Danish People's Party think this is a problem for this elderly woman who has lived vegetarian for so many years that she doesn't have the opportunity to make the choice that she herself can ethically vouch for?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209104910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209104912	Well, she can at least at first opt out of the meat if she's a vegetarian. I also know a lot of vegetarians who don't make a lot of themselves when they come in some places where others don't know they're vegetarians, so they can find something that's vegetarian. It may have been a bigger problem back in time, but today we are really focused on getting healthy and nutritious diets, and it can easily be green, but in some places it can be difficult with plant based. But you can talk about that in most places.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209104951	Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209104952	But we need to get something in place here: you can't just choose the meat from. If you go to a nursing home where there is no healthy and nutritious vegetarian alternative, you can't just eat the accessories for the meat. Well, that's not nutritious enough. You can't just eat potatoes and iceberg salad. You need a good meal. So does the Danish People's Party not think that this is a violation of our older fellow citizens who want to eat vegetarian, that they do not all have the opportunity to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209105022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209105022-2	Older citizens go to nursing homes, and there are nutrition assistants who are well aware of the importance of the elderly. Many older people are small - eating, and in many places they offer a wishful meal. You pay close attention to the elderly, and that is what you are doing in hospitals.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209105046	Then Anders Kronborg also came on the list, I see. It's fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209105050	When you sit and listen to the debate, you sit and use your ears, and then there is something you have time to listen to and reflect on. And I just want to do that in relation to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Because I think there was a little bit of distrust in relation to the employees who are in the public sector and look after our older fellow citizens. And there I think it is only important that, when we have this debate, we also have to show confidence in the talented leaders we have at our elderly centres, to show confidence in the skilled employees who are out at our elderly centres. And I just want to ask the Danish People's Party in relation to the distrust shown here, whether the Danish People's Party does not believe that it is helping to remove the desire from precisely the innovation and curiosity that will help to give older people a good food experience when they are lately in a nursing home.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209105141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209105142	Well, I am quite sure that the kitchen managers and nutrition assistants, etc. that we have in the public kitchens, are there because they are interested in making healthy and nutritious food.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209105155	Thank you. Well, then, sir. Torsten Gejl also made a request for a short remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209105158	I think there's something a little arrogant about saying that vegetarians can just eat accessories. Or that you might have to keep it quiet if you're a vegetarian, and then out in different contexts maybe eat some accessories. In other words, does the rapporteur not see that accessories for the meat which may have been served in a public canteen on a daily basis are not nutritional enough for it to be particularly healthy to survive?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209105235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209105236	Of course, you should not live on accessories, but in relation to the cases where you enter a nursing home and are about to adapt and then they are not initially geared to it: they are. I am absolutely convinced of that. We have some very talented people in these places who have trained in food and nutrition.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209105300	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209105301	Well, we don't actually know that. The rapporteur uses an argument that, as older people, you can just go into the kitchen of a public institution or anywhere else and say: I need plant-based food. Does the rapporteur know how many places you can do that? Can the rapporteur guarantee that this is half the place in the country? So, does the rapporteur have any evidence at all that this argument can be used here?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209105325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209105325-2	I haven't, but we can ask that. But so, I know quite positively that most nursing homes or even it is just in Jutland that this is how it is possible to have a wishful diet, it is possible to have a healthy and nutritious diet. And it is here too, because you do not train yourself as a nutrition assistant or a kitchen assistant and manager, etc., if you do not care that it is healthy and nutritious food that you serve to the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209105355	Then we can thank Mrs Lise Bech, and we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Olldag Oldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209105405	Thank you very much, President. This really is an exciting debate we are having today. Thank you for the motion for a resolution. Here we have one of the most central wishes of vegetarians and vegans: the possibility of having a nutritious plant-based meal in the public canteen or food scheme. As a 15 - year - old vegetarian, I can clearly recognize the problem from my own everyday life. The Danish Vegetarian Association has compiled a catalogue of examples of people who have been denied a plant-based meal or who have not been allowed to take their own food instead, or who have been eaten off with very poor accessories, and that is not good enough at all. It is not, from the point of view of the debate that we are just coming from overwhelming the staff out there in the public kitchens who are already working very sensibly. But we also know, as in the field of education, all places where the educators do very well and then there are some places where there is a lack of qualification and further training. Without unfolding the catalogue of the Danish Vegetarian Association, I would just like to state that, from my point of view, this is a right. And that is also why I personally am in favour of the proposal. More and more people choose to eat plant based. Demand in public canteens and kitchens is growing strongly these years, and many also choose the plant-based rather than the meat-based. We can, among other things. Take a look at the Region Hospital Randers and Bispebjerg Hospital, where 25%. of the eaten meals are plant-based when just the free choice is present. But the resistance is great in many other places, and as a vegan and vegetarian one gets into a short circuit, starting with the municipal or regional official pointing out that there is no political will to implement it locally. Then politicians say locally that there is not enough popular support or enough citizens who demand it. Then you say, "Well, I'm asking for it." And then they say: then you must organize a total demand and take it up in the Folketing. When we do so today, we will just hear: it is a municipal, regional issue. Then you can feel the short circuit on your own body. Then you stand there with your popular support and your demand and try to define what is enough. There is a liberal argument which, moreover, is divided across the middle of this Chamber today. For it is a little strange that people use a liberal thought set as an argument against a plant-based option coming in all public kitchens. After all, we are already making many other demands on the municipalities and regions. A liberal cannot possibly be in favour of public kitchens deciding that vegans and vegetarians should eat animal food. If there is a plant-based alternative, you can choose freely. No one is restricted or forced to do anything, and that is liberal about something. So the only ones who act uliberally and want to control other people's foods are the opponents of the option of choosing a plant-based alternative. It is certainly neither socialist nor liberal to oppose this proposal. But also in our own ranks in the Radical Left I must admit that opinions are divided as they are here today. We will always fight for local and regional self-government. That is why the proposal is not entirely without dilemmas for us. But now it is not in radical DNA to dwell too long on frustration, so I think: what can we do? It seems to me that the obvious way is to take up the issue again when we are about to discuss green public procurement in a short time. A demand for municipalities and regions to reduce their emissions of CO2 It would certainly be a focus for us in the Radical Left that this is the path we should take. From my personal vegetable-loving perspective, it would have been solved by the fact that the meat was something that could be chosen on or off, as the Social Democrat rapporteur also mentioned. Imagine a meal put together by two, three seasonal tasty, nutritious individual dishes, where plant protein, vitamins, fibers and carbohydrates balance fine, and then one can choose another piece of meat or not. Then it wouldn't be anything to have to make many different kinds of meals, and it wouldn't be expensive. You can just start thinking about the meat as an accessory, as you do now in Aarhus Municipality, where the meat has been reduced by one third in all meals for the benefit of both the climate and health, and no one has actually discovered it. Another problem in this question is that many kitchens do not quite feel professionally dressed. There is now plenty of help here, both from the Board of Diet and Nutrition, from the Danish Vegetarian Association and from the handful of educational institutions ready to take responsibility for the green kitchens of the future. In the 2021 Finance Act, we have ensured that for two years to come there is a pool of 200 million. kr., which can be applied for further training and qualification. I and many others are asking for this qualification, and while the educational institutions are working on it, I, along with my colleagues, will in the meantime press from here. Because it's not just an agenda that's coming. It's already here. I thank you again for the proposal, but must also say that we are not quite ready to say now what we are going to vote on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209105919	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Anders Kronborg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209105922	Thank you very much for the rapporteur's speech, and I have full respect for the fact that we will just reflect further on the proposal for a committee procedure. As far as I am concerned, it is not just a question of municipal self-government or not. I think that is what I said in my speech. In 1961, Denmark received a new Minister of Culture, Julius Bomholt ■ actually the first Minister of Culture who already wrote cultural texts at the time, where he included the diet as part of forming people, part of raising people, part of having a conversation about something that is so close. So for me, it's also about freedom of spirit. And I would just like to ask the radical rapporteur if she does not fear that if we adopt a lot of strict rules from in here, freedom of spirit will actually be drained in relation to something as important as the diet.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209110017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209110019	I do not think that the two things are in conflict with each other. We are just talking here today about creating a right so that you have an alternative, that is, a free choice, out there. And, to me, it could be a lever to actually put this on the agenda in some of the smaller municipalities, where it is a little uphill, yes, excuse me with this agenda, because there is a food culture that may not have quite reached where the Socialist rapporteur would like to go too. There is very quickly closed off to the type of conversation where we talk curiously and openly about it and go to it as a journey we can go on together.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209110058	Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209110100	After all, I myself come from one of the municipalities that was just a country famous for the diet, because at that time a person, Sundbo, who was actually involved in introducing school food for children who came from working homes. It thus helped to form rings in the water for municipalities that really needed it; one learned from what one was curious and so on. It just has to be so sometimes, when you make these rules in here, that it not only gets fixed; it actually becomes a rigged tool that you're bothered with. Does the radical rapporteur not fear that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209110133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209110134	No, I fear that you will be left out there, both as a citizen and as a vegetarian, who is trying to get a plant-based meal that is nourishing, so that from here we say that we leave it to the municipalities again, and then it is out there, in the local election campaign, that you have to take the fight, as has been proposed. And preserved, I think that that fight must be taken out there, including in the local election campaign, and we are also ready in the Radicals, but there is something we can help with from in here, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209110203	Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209110205	Thank you. And thank you for that passionate speech. I am glad that the rapporteur says that you are in favour of the work of the committee. However, I can see that in 2017, the Radical Left was included in a resolution calling for the creation of a conversion pool to promote the operation of organic and plant-based diets in public kitchens. And it's been about three and a half years. So I really hope that it is with a positive approach that the Radical Left goes to committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209110239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209110240	Now that resolution was, in fact, based on this desire to upgrade and improve the professional level in the kitchens, and indeed, to me, it is also what we have just done in the Finance Act, namely to create a framework for this to be done by allocating a pool of two times 100 million. kr. for green training and upgrading. And to me, educational institutions working with diet simply need to get started in search of that money, because that is the way we are going to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209110310	May I recommend that conversations take place in the sidelines? Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209110318	Thank you. I think it's a really nice thing with education, but when you talked about education in 2017 and we're talking about it again, I don't think we can keep waiting for education; now we have to make some decisions that give each person a freedom to choose the plant-based diet.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209110336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209110337	That is absolutely correct. But if we're going to be such a bit of a low-practical thing, it's also about the fact that if we say from in here now it was at least a discussion in our group that this should be a right from, let's just say, the turn of the year, to say something, then you're also putting pressure on the kitchens out there in terms of being able to join in on this. Quite frankly, an argument could also be that this is precisely what we need to take into account in the dialogue. And there the framework for green public procurement may be the right dialogue, because there we may actually be able to embrace some of the resistance that we can otherwise run into with a demand for a right.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209110411	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209110415	Thank you. I think it is good to focus on what kind of continuing training is possible with the financial law that has now been introduced. And there are more options. There's that money, 4 x 45 million. kr. But it is true that there is other money too, and there I think there is an interesting perspective on whether we can get our hands on some of the money for green training to train some kitchen staff as well. After all, the money has been cut, because it can also include construction workers and the like, who also need further training in the green transition. So I would really like to hear the rapporteur of the Radicals unfold it a little, as to what kind of money it is that the rapporteur envisages we should like to enable some further training of kitchen staff from the funds allocated to green training, because ecological money can easily be ripped off. So I think it is very positive if we can have a dialogue on how we can also get the kitchen staff covered by the conversion money for continuing training.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209110521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209110522	I fully agree, and I know that the rapporteur and I share this focus, so I'm pretty sure that when we start talking about the coining of this and the criteria for that pool, we're awake from each of our parties to putting this framework in place, so it's actually a very clear way to go. I would certainly wish for us in the budget negotiations that this was the way it was tightened up. It can also be said that there is currently an ecological pool of 25 million. kr., which must be translated, where you could also go in and put 2-5 million. kr. I know that a research centre on plant-based diets has been wanted for a long time, both from the rapporteur's party and from my own.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209110602	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209110603	It is true that there are several options, and I share the view that there may be a focus on the plant-based diet in relation to ecology, and that this can be included in the discussions that we started with here at 8 a.m. 8.15 today. So I am fully aware that there is that perspective in it, and it is good to confirm that the Radicals share that view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209110626	Will the rapporteur reply? No. Thank you. There will then be no further brief comments, so we will thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Vandemeulebroucke's report. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209110635	Thank you. This is an excellent proposal. I myself have gone to the polls on this and have talked a lot about it in the election campaign. It has been in my flyers, it has been in my election videos, I have argued very much for it, so I have also looked forward to today's discussion. I think it is important that we get an offer of plant-based food in public kitchens. We must drastically reduce our meat consumption if we are to tackle the climate crisis and the biodiversity crisis. And giving people the freedom to choose plant-based food in public kitchens is a minimum in terms of changing our diets, and that is a bottom-up task. We have had a lot of talk about this proposal in the Socialist People's Party, and we have not really had it because there is disagreement that we should reduce our meat intake. We certainly think we should. But there has been a little debate because we do not think that Christiansborg should regulate in detail what is being served in each kitchen. But we don't really think you do that here either. You do not go in and decide very precisely what is to be served; on the contrary, it is said that it is a right that there should be a nutritious plant-based meal in public kitchens, if people want to, and then you can find out locally how you want to organise it. That is why we have come to the conclusion that we support this proposal because we regard it as a right. It's central. In addition, there are 58 per cent. by the Danes, who want to eat less meat • 58 per cent. It is a very large proportion of citizens who actually want to reduce their meat intake, and that is why I think we should give them the opportunity. And I think that one of the things that is a little awkward about the fact that right now there is no political support for this is that we are missing out on a possible voluntary change. Where there are some who are concerned that people are being forced down on their heads, that they have to eat less meat, that is not the case here at all. What is the case here is that people should be able to opt for it if they so wish. There is a whole lot out there today that actually wants to eat less meat but does not have the possibility of it because it is not being served. That is why I think this proposal is so good, because it offers the possibility of voluntary redeployment for the individual. If you want to eat less meat, you can actually eat less meat. That will be very positive. I also think it has been sad to see how wrong the government has got off with its proposal on vegetarian days. It is, of course, because you go in and say very clearly that these days there should be no meat. There is this, then, a little more compromise-seeking in my optics, because it gives people the freedom to choose the plant-based for, if they want it, and therefore I also hope that in the longer term the government intends to embrace this. I know that you are very concerned about Blue Bjarne and that he must also be able to have his steaks, but that also embraces this proposal. Blue Bjarne is not harmed by green Sofie being able to choose the plant-based meal for. That's why I think this is gonna be a really good way to go. It is also about the protection of minorities. It's about being admitted to the hospital, or if you have your children in an institution, you have to be able to choose this if you want to. That should therefore be a right. And I think that if you don't think this is a problem, you should look at some of the cases that the Danish Vegetarian Association has put forward. I mentioned one of them earlier today about an elderly woman who has lived vegetarian for 35 years. Then she went to a nursing home and felt compelled to eat chicken and fish. I do not think we can offer that to any citizen. This proposal is also very good because it can bring a health benefit. As the Minister has also mentioned, we eat too much meat in relation to dietary advice, and this will allow us to have a healthier population if more people eat less meat. We can also ensure a financial gain because we actually have a socio-economic benefit from people eating more after dietary advice and not eating quite so much meat. So I think that is important too. We know that 80%. of the Danish families of children receive less than half of the recommended daily amount of fruit and vegetables. By giving them the opportunity to choose something plant-based in the public kitchens, I think we can meet it too. So this is an excellent proposal. The Socialist People's Party will support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209111108	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209111112	Thank you. Does the rapporteur recognise that the green agenda has also been set locally, and that it is in the process of discussing it and has also taken it into account in slightly different ways around, but that it has been taken into account and worked with it and developed on it and promoted more plant-based diets? Does the rapporteur recognise that this development is taking place locally?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209111132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209111133	Yes, I acknowledge that this development is taking place locally. On the other hand, it's not the Left's profit. It's more like a lot of green parties fighting for it. And among other things... After all, Copenhagen and Aarhus have decided to reduce dietary emissions by 25%. in 2024 and 2025 and this is a really good development. But there is still no right to choose the plant-based locally if you wish. And that is why I think it is a good thing that development is there locally, but we can also support it and we can say clearly: we think that the individual should have this right. And that is why we support both the green transition locally, and
ParlaMint-DK_20201209111215	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209111215-2	Does the rapporteur also accept that we are pleased that the rapporteur responds positively to this? And whoever's gonna get credit for that, I think I'll be very different around. So I don't think anyone has an individual patent on that. But does the rapporteur also recognise that, now that developments are under way, there must be exactly room for local wealth of ideas, local diversity, in relation to how much emphasis will be placed on one and the other and the third? And so, in the end, it would be best, according to our and my point of view, to deal with this locally. We are, in fact, already doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209111251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209111252	I think it is central to local freedom of choice. As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, I do not think this is a detailed management because it does not determine exactly what is to be served. They simply say that if there is a desire for plant-based food, you should be able to have it. And then you can find out locally what you want to serve and how you want to decorate it. Well, I don't really think that's so violent. So I fully acknowledge the dilemma • we have discussed it a lot in the SF, because we are in favour of local self-government, but we also come to the conclusion here that this right is a minimum that we can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209111326	Then it's mr. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209111329	Thank you so much for your speech. I do not believe that the Social Democratic Party strongly disagrees with the SF in relation to the objectives. It is probably more the method we disagree on. And that's where I'd like to arrest something. For when the Social Democracy before the elections presented the presentation about a finger-reform of the public sector, i.e. that we should have fewer rules, less bureaucracy, more confidence in the institutions, more confidence in the public employees, more weight in the municipal self-government, I understood that these were views shared by the SF, just as SF shares the view about the free municipalities, where we set the primary school free, where we set the elderly area free, for example. in Viborg, where Mr. Uffe Wilbek is mayor. And now I understand that SF supports a proposal that deals with more rules for municipalities. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209111426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209111427	It is such that we need to place emphasis on different things, and sometimes there is something so important that it can trump local self-government. For example, we have just introduced minimum standards and are in the process of doing so, and it is also to a certain extent a regulation from Christiansborg. But we have simply chosen to do so because we think it is so important that you have enough local adults for our children. And in this case, it's actually a little the same balance we would rather not go in centrally from and decide, because we think that local self-government is important, but at the same time we also recognise that it is a right that you should be allowed to choose plant-based food in public kitchens if you want to. And that is why it is a trade-off, and here it has been tipped over to the fact that we are in favour of introducing an offer for plant-based food in public kitchens and allowing the kitchens to find out how it should be implemented locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209111526	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209111527	I assume that the rapporteur for the SF also agrees with me that this should be done, for example. is important for our children in kindergarten to get a daily meal. It is, of course, decentralized with the parents' boards, where they can have the talk out there about whether they should have a parent-paid food scheme or whether the children should bring food from home. We trust that you can deal with this in a decentralised manner on the local parental board, which means something as important as giving children food at all. Why, then, should it not be centralised from in here, according to the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209111603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209111603-2	That's because it actually works really well. But it does not work very well right now with the protection of minorities who want to eat plant-based food. There are parents who have been denied the right to give their children a lunch with. So not only do you not have plant-based food served, but you must not even take a lunch containing plant-based food with you • that is how it is in some places. It therefore violates the rights of some people, and that is why we think it should be central, that is to say, from Christiansborg, that it should be a right for our citizens to choose plant-based food if they so wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209111636	Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209111638	Thank you. And thank the rapporteur for a nice speech and for the support. I am particularly pleased and attached to the fact that although public kitchens are required to serve a plant-based meal, there are still plenty of freedom inside: How do you do that? Is it local goods etc.? Something that we have not mentioned today, but which can sometimes be heard about in the debate, is a waste of food, because we also sometimes talk about climate here. Does the rapporteur have a position on whether green diet produces less food waste?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209111713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209111715	In general, there are also some advantages of plant-based diet because it can typically have a longer duration and there can be some different benefits. So, yeah. But I also think the fight against food waste is very important. I would also like to say that I think, when we implement this, that it is also essential that we get an upskilling of staff in public kitchens so that they are good at cooking plant-based food; so that they are good at minimising food waste; so that they also become good at making more organic food and such things. There are many things that need to be done in this transition, and we must both limit food waste, ensure more ecology and more plant-based food.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209111752	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209111753	Thank you. In relation to the money that can be saved because it is much more healthy to live vegetarian or eat very much plant-based diet, I also think that the rapporteur also has a lot of proposals on what could be spent on the amount of money that could be released in the long term, compared to people living healthier and burdening the health system less.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209111817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209111818	Oh, yeah, I didn't just make a plan for what we're gonna spend the billions on. But I can say that at my very first meeting with the former Minister for Food, Mr. I myself suggested to Mogens Jensen that we should have a calculation of how much money we could save by living more after the dietary advice, and we have had that calculation now, and that is also what Mrs Susanne Zimmer refers to. And it is just quite clear that if we eat more after dietary advice and, among other things, less meat, we get a socio-economic benefit from it, and we can then use it for some sensible measures.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209111851	We can thank the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and that is why we are now moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209111901	Much has happened over time, and I am sure that a lot has happened since the President of the Danish Parliament was the rapporteur on agriculture. There is, in fact, a green agenda running out of there. And what are we going to offer in public feeding? There we have a good debate here about whether what is in the proposal here should be a shell provision, so that the public kitchens in the Enhedslisten have we had, I think, the same discussions that have apparently been held in the SF and Radicals, and we have come to the conclusion that we are positive about the intentions in the proposal, but we are not where we will vote for the proposal as it is now. There are, of course, some aspects of rights in this which I think are essential, and I think there is a big difference between whether you have a right when you go down to the canteen on Wednesdays, which is that you can choose a good meal or whether we are dealing with some of the people who, for example, have a good meal. are in our nursing home and who have chosen in their lives that they will live vegan or vegetarian. It is clear from the comments on the proposal here that it is only 56 per cent. of the municipalities, who say that they will guarantee to take account of older vegetarians. I find that extremely problematic. I think it is essential to continue to work on how to guarantee the rights of those citizens who have come into a life situation where, for example, they are. is in a nursing home or in a hospital and e.g. must be healthy in the hospital. So it's important what kind of diet you get. I think that in many cases the diet can be at least as important as the medicines and other treatments you receive. So, I think it's a shame if all the intentions fall on this "Should" rule. For it is clear that there is a green agenda where it is an advantage that we come up with priorities for more ecology and more plant-based diets in public consumption. There are all kinds of good arguments for climate and health. However, I think that there is a difference between giving everyone a right to come down on Wednesday to the buffet and saying that they are going to eat vegan today or that we are going to deal with the problem that some people have in connection with them being admitted to a hospital or going to a nursing home, or problems with children who are in a day-care institution. I am, in fact, sure that many municipalities and regions are handling this well. It is probably the easiest in the large municipalities, and it is probably the easiest in the regional hospitals. If you look at the experience of the region hospital in Randers, it is truly impressive that because they have so much focus on producing quality food on organic raw materials, there are about a quarter of the patients who choose the vegetarian meal. That's a little thought-provoking. I think it is important that we move forward with this agenda and that it was a very good debate that we had in the Danish Parliament when we discussed the joint motion for a resolution by Enhedslisten, Radicals, SF and the alternative to redistribute pools for the ecological change of cuisine and in the same re-birth were addressed that there should also be further training in the plant-based diet. Now, in the financial agreement that has just been made, we can now welcome the fact that, in this way, the conversion of public kitchens to ecology has also been mentioned, and it is possible that in the discussions we are going to have and the coinage we are going to have, we give priority to the plant-based diet. Because there is no doubt that we have skilled kitchen workers who need further training if we are to replace meatballs with falafel. This has to be discussed openly, and there are plenty of examples of past experience of continuing training in this area, and it is thus possible to achieve greater joy in working in the kitchens that are involved in the conversion. Then I also look forward to us translating these continuing training funds into the Finance Act, where it is essential that we also bring the kitchen staff. Many people have been affected by the corona crisis in the hotel and catering sector, including those who cook the food supplied for air transport. There is a need for some of the kitchen staff who are there to be able to move on. And if they can be part of the sustainable transition to more ecology and more plant-based diet, I think that something important has been achieved. So in the Enhedslisten we have come to support the intentions of this and to continue working on it and continue working to spread the plant-based diet. We are not where we are in favour of there having to be a shell provision broadly at this stage, but I fully recognise that there are some people in the current system who are being squeezed into nursing homes and hospitals.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209112407	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are brief comments. First, it's from sir. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209112411	Thank you. I think it is rather a pity that the Enhedslisten ends up not being able to support the proposal, although I am pleased with the recognition of the problem in hospitals and elsewhere. Now it's 58 percent. by the Danes, who want to reduce their meat intake. Does the rapporteur not think that we could ensure a greater voluntary conversion by giving everyone the opportunity in public kitchens to choose to do so if they so wish, so that we can actually reduce our meat intake by voluntary means by ensuring that this proposal applies in all the public kitchens and not just in the places that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen mentions?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209112448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209112448-2	Well, that's the debate and the dilemma about how much to leave to municipalities and regions to make decisions and move forward with it, and I have to say that with what has been achieved in Copenhagen and Aarhus and a large number of other municipalities on a voluntary basis, one has been able to convert to ecology without increasing the cost budget by focusing on seasonal raw materials, cooking from the bottom up, reducing food waste and reducing the share of meat. Whether you've discovered it in the cafeteria or not, there's probably one thing there are. But you can, in a focused effort, make that transition, and I think a little, the dilemma with the proposal here is that it is only a plant-based meal. In other words, there are vegetarians who like to get something from time to time based on dairy products. So I think that the proposal is a little too square on that corner, and I am comfortable with continuing with a good dialogue with municipalities and regions to promote this agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209112552	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209112553	I actually agree with the rapporteur that this would be more problematic in a nursing home or in a daycare institution than it would be in a canteen, for example. However, the rapporteur does not also recognise that it can be extremely frustrating as a vegetarian or vegan to experience, for example, that you can experience. In the cafeteria can't get a plant-based meal? I have experienced this at Christiansborg, for example, where I have often simply failed to go to the Snapsting because there was no proper vegan dish. So, isn't it obvious to ensure that people also generally have this freedom of choice in public kitchens?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209112629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209112630	Yes, I am, and during my 39 years as a vegetarian, I have had many bad food experiences, and I have also tried to go down to the Snapsting and had to pay for an evening meal... the same thing that the meat eater had to eat and that my meal was the same plate, just without the meat. And when you experience it many times, you get a little pissed off. If you experience it once a month, you can live with it. So I would very much like to see a much better treatment for vegetarians and vegans, and this debate can hopefully help to help us get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209112704	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209112705	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for a relatively positive speech and support in relation to the work of the committee. I can admit that where you live in the institution, in the hospital, etc., it will be far more important than elsewhere. But I just think that you quickly get into a grey area, and I didn't quite realize where daycare centres and settlements are in relation to that. How can you distinguish between these things in the real world?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209112748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209112748-2	I think that settlements, nursing homes and hospitals are definitely at the top of that most important list. I also consider day care institutions in which children eat every day 5 days a week as being on the list to meet the children's wishes. I am quite sure that in many places you can look at what kind of group you have in individual institutions. Are there some who are milk allergy sufferers, are there some who are vegans or vegetarians, or are there some who have other dietary preferences? Then you try to accommodate it. I'm pretty sure you do that in a good way, a lot of places. But I am also aware that there are some really bad examples, and there I think that this resolution, which may have its past most in the alternative, and where a good piece of work has been done with some references to sources, is thought-provoking. It's worrying when only 56 percent. of the municipalities can accommodate older vegetarians if they go to nursing homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209112853	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209112854	Yeah, that's very troubling. If, as a child in a kindergarten, you are the only one who lives vegetarian or vegan at home, it is really difficult as parents to be the ones who have to go in and demand or at least ask to have a special diet made for that child. So the pressure that is being put there on the parents and the child, who will have to either eat meat or bring lunches from home, if you have to, is violent. So in the real world it will often be the case that they have to do the same as the others. And you could take that pressure from those parents if you made legislation from in here that gave the right to the green meal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209112940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209112941	Now it is not all legislation that is being welcomed in all sectors of society, so I am not sure that there would be such a cheerful public out there in the public institutions if it were the case that we decided that it should be a shell provision. I think we have an agenda here where we have a chance to win, without it having to be such a shell provision.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209113013	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209113016	Thank you. Well, now the Enhedslisten is usually a party with an incredibly strong green agenda. And they will be, no matter how you put yourself in this case. So once it is established, I just think I would say that the Enhedslisten is usually ready to legislate on important things in climate, environment and nature. And Enhedslisten usually realizes that if we were to let things go by themselves with the most important things in climate, environment and nature, it would probably go too slowly if it did not stop completely. I just need to understand something in this area: why is it that Enhedslisten does not have the legislative urge, when you could now benefit the climate as much as you normally have?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209113105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209113106	It is because we are also a party that salutes local self-government and can see that where the municipalities take it seriously and where the regions take it seriously, they can really see things and move on with the green agenda. Of course, it is important that there is no legislation preventing it. Then I am not sure that if we adopted such a shell provision in here, it would be best to move forward in this way. I really believe that it will be better if we allocate continuing training funds, i.e. that we do, for example, make better use of these resources. In the Finance Act, these have the means to convert public kitchens into organic, so that we can bring in more plant-based diets. I think it's more nuanced that way around, rather than if there was a shell provision coming from in here. And frankly, I also think that there is a big difference between talking about the right to something, i.e. whether you, like Wednesday lunches in the Snapsting, are entitled to a vegan meal or whether you have the right, because you live in a nursing home and have to live there for several years, when you have chosen a vegan or vegetarian lifestyle.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209113215	Thank you. The next one to make a brief comment is Mr Seligman. Anders Kronborg from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209113220	Thank you. Yesterday I had the pleasure of reading one of the good old Tintin comic books, and I do not think that the Rules of Procedure allow me to make a Captain Haddock. But it is almost before I feel like it when I think the debate here is taking a turn. In fact, I think that it blows things out of proportion when you start to worry about your own meals that you can eat down in the Snapsting. Well, we have some lucrative relationships here at Christiansborg, but there are people out in the real world who don't have a snapsting when they're in the van. We've got kids. I went to visit some of those who don't have breakfast in the morning. The only thing you can drive up from the municipality is what you get from the food bank so these kids can have a healthy, nutritious breakfast. In other words, does the rapporteur not admit that the proportions are taking a turn and that perhaps the focus should also be on the fact that some people in this society are concerned about more than just that they can have some green dishes in the Snapsting in here at Christiansborg?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209113325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209113326	No, it refers to a reality, that is, how it is in the Snapsting. I mean, when you don't even here in a pretty big kitchen with a canteen manager, who is a little known to be out in the shoes in relation to modern food, can be accommodated in relation to your food desires to be able to eat a satisfying and nutritious meal, then I think it's kind of a good picture. I think it is essential to stress good meals for the entire population of Denmark. And we are in a situation where there are some schools that simply offer that there are oatmeal in the morning because they know that there are some students who come in without breakfast and who are not able to get so much learning if they do not get that portion of oatmeal. So I think it is good that these municipalities come to the conclusion that it is essential to make that offer. So it is not because I think that today's debate has reached something elitist. We are just in a situation where we are some people who have chosen not to eat meat, and that is what we have chosen from different points of view, and we would like to be allowed to continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209113436	Thank you. Is there a request for a second brief remark? There is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209113438	I am also thinking, and this is also what I hear the rapporteur say, that if the rapporteur on, for example, your workplace finds that there is no nutritious meal in relation to a plant-based diet, so you also take the debate at the workplace in a decentralised manner. So I would simply like to acknowledge to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that the nuances are also in the Enhedslisten's presentation. I hear criticism of this from our good colleague, but I would like to express my support for that. And then I just appeal to us to remember the proportions of the debate, in other words that there are actually some where a healthy meal is generally something to be asked for very far away.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209113512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209113513	Well, it is true that we have the poorest part of the population, where there are some families that have very little in the refrigerator and on the shelves at the end of the month. And that is why we must abolish the worst benefits on cash benefits, which can ensure that there are some families who have a diet right up to the last day of the month. That is quite correct. Nor should it be the case that one chooses to become a vegan because the economy is unable to buy 100 grams of calf liver. But that may be the reality facing the poorest part of the population.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209113547	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. There are no more brief comments. The next to be welcomed is the rapporteur of the Conservatives. Here you go, sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209113556	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Susanne Zimme for presenting the proposal and raising this very exciting debate. We will not be supporting the proposal for the sole reason that we are in favour of a decentralized decision-making process in relation to this kind of thing. It is quite certain that if I went in and supported this proposal, I would have great problems with a lot of council members and regional councillors around, because they would like to be allowed to make things up to the everyday life in which they are now living and to the situations in which they have to take care of. I also sense that we are moving towards it being a boat and compared to this eating either meat or plant-based. Now the Snapsting has been mentioned, and last night I had a long day yesterday I slipped into the Snapsting, and there I got among other things. the opportunity to choose whether I would have hearts in cream sauce for the mashed potatoes, or I would have chickpeas, or I would have both, and that sort of covers it well, because then you have an option practically in the same meal. And if it is the case that you go in and make legislation about what needs to be offered in the kitchens around, then it can be quite difficult and complicated. We know that there are dishes with meat, there is the possibility of making the purely vegan, there is the possibility of making the vegetarian, there are some who want halal, there are some who want to be free of pigs, there are some, especially in the older generation, who categorically refuse to eat lettuce, and yes, there is ecology and all the way around, so it can be quite difficult and complicated if it is the case that we start pushing something down over municipalities and regions and where there are otherwise public kitchens. Then there is the cost of it, and I think that is a little complicated as well. Because the more things you have to wear, the more expensive things you can get, and it also takes more resources in the kitchens if it is the case that you have to have more or less à la carte, and where should the money come from? I remember that, at the time, when ecology was introduced in the region where I have a seat, there was an additional price, and it was then to be taken out of the budget in a way that meant that hospitals had to actually cut down on their staff. So we are not going to support this proposal, and it is not because we do not support the intention that everyone should have the opportunity to have a good and healthy and nutritious meal that suits them, but one must find out that out there locally, where it takes place, where the needs to cover different eating patterns are, and we are confident that one can do that locally, without us in this Parliament having to legislate on it. So that should be my immediate comment on the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209113926	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments, first of all to Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209113929	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for the speech. When it comes to the complexity of being a kitchen worker, it is actually the case that if you make a buffet or something like a buffet, where you also have different green dishes, you will be able to more easily accommodate Jews, Muslims, vegans and vegetarians etc. So that may in fact be the opposite of what the rapporteur says, that is to say that it will be easier to be a kitchen staff.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209114001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209114001-2	I think it depends a little on how to view it, because the more things that need to be on the buffet, the more difficult it becomes all other things being equal, and the more time it will take. I am also thinking a little of the fact that, if you have a lot of different things to meet different needs, you are in fact in danger of getting into an increased waste of food, and nobody is interested in that either in terms of resources or in relation to the climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209114032	Is there a brief comment? There is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209114035	Thank you. There I think that education comes in as a very important factor, so that you learn how to handle these things so that it does not become more expensive and there is no more food waste etc., but that it promotes the health of those who are given the opportunity to eat more green. Because it doesn't have to be a either-or. It may be more green and less meat.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209114058	Per Larsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209114059	I very much agree with the rapporteur that it does not have to be either or that solutions can be created to meet the needs that exist. But I think it should be done locally. I do not think this is something we should legislate on here from Christiansborg. We tend to legislate on many things that actually work and are handled very well around local, regional and local authorities, and I think we should stick to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209114128	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment on Mrs Olldag Ollyday from the Radicals. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209114131	Thank you so much. I would really like to comment on the rapporteur's speech, which is precisely about the fact that the money is not enough for this type of change. Because in many public kitchens we have just a good old-fashioned chef, an economist, one who can figure out how to add a budget, add and subtract, and that was really what you did in Aarhus Municipality. When you had the ecological promise in Aarhus Municipality, you did just that, you sat down and looked at the budget and said: what is most expensive is the meat, and if we take one third of it out, we use that money to convert the rest to ecology. And then it actually went up. This is how the solution ended for Aarhus Municipality, and there it was that the citizens did not really discover it. There was a soup day on Tuesdays, and all of a sudden you actually have some vegetarian days, without anyone suffering or falling over for that reason. What, then, is the rapporteur's position on the fact that it might actually be possible to drive this kind of thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209114229	Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209114230	I fully agree with the radical rapporteur that it is quite possible for such changes to be made. Now meat consumption has fallen in many places. I'm pretty sure it is for the individual, and it is also in the public kitchens. The meat consumption has actually been reduced. I think that the exercise that you did in Aarhus and that you did without legislation, you did that in the place where you were, and you found out how to solve it is an excellent solution. However, since meat consumption has been greatly reduced in public kitchens, it can be said that the return gain that could be there is, as it were, used once and, as you know, only once can the gains be taken home. However, I certainly believe that some local solutions will be found to meet needs without the need to legislate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209114325	Olldag illdag, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209114326	Now there are a great many public kitchens where there are no return gains yet, because the meat has not been cut down yet. But let's just leave it for this round. I would also just like to arrest the rapporteur's argument about the liberal principle here, because a liberal approach or legislation exists precisely to protect people and not necessarily the institution or organisation, the municipality. So when you stand there as a lone vegetarian, I almost said, and let's just say down there, where I come from, down on South Zealand, and want some plant-based food, how can it be that you can't trust the Folketing to protect your right to a plant-based meal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209114406	Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209114406-2	As has been said, there is a wealth of different eating patterns, and we cannot, as a starting point, legislate on them all from in here. I do not think that we should legislate on this at all, because I think it works in a good way in many places, and we need to resolve those specific problems locally. The main argument is that we should not legislate on it, and I am therefore confident that it will be resolved on a local basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209114441	Thank you, sir. Per Larsen. There are no more brief comments. I would just like to point out that, when you talk to each other, you have to keep your distance in this Chamber. I understand you're talking, but you have to keep your distance in this room. Here you go, sir. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209114455	Thank you for the floor. This proposal is aimed at getting the government to ensure that all public kitchens should allow citizens to choose a plant-based meal. We in New Citizens also believe that citizens should be able to have a satisfying and nutritious meal in public kitchens. We have nothing against people being vegetarians, vegans or something completely third or just generally wanting to eat greener. We support common sense as well as healthy meals, but it goes both ways. In other words, public kitchens must also have the opportunity to make free choices. If there is such a high demand for plant-based meals, I am sure that the public kitchens will see an advantage in expanding them according to supply and demand. That is how the healthy, free market works. In New Citizens we believe that man should decide more himself and the state less, including in this case. So let the public kitchens and their users decide for themselves what to serve in schools, nursing homes, hospitals etc. That is why we cannot support motion for a resolution B 45.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209114559	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment from Mrs Olldag Ollyday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209114604	Thank you so much. New citizens want to protect the individual, as the rapporteur also says, and the individual's right to decide for himself. But what if the individual right here just can't decide for himself? That is exactly what the resolution here is about: the right to have a plant-based alternative. So that is precisely the freedom to decide for yourself, individually. So how can the rapporteur say no to this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209114633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209114634	Because it is something that we think we should talk about locally and that it is not something that we, on the part of the state, should go in and roll through.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209114646	There are no more brief comments. There is no one from the Liberal Alliance at the moment, so that is why the next one we should welcome, Mr President. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209114659	Thank you very much. The proposal is about allowing people to choose a plant-based alternative in public kitchens themselves. It is clear that the alternative supports this proposal, because it is also grown in the garden of the alternative. The reason we support it and have developed it in its time is that meat consumption is a huge, huge climate problem. So, meat production is one of the largest CO2 of Denmark covered by agriculture. So we are the country in the world with Bangladesh that has the most agriculture size-wise. 80% Of all that we then produce, we go to feed animals, and that is where a major CO2 problem comes in. But meat production is also a huge problem for our wild nature. Well, in many places there are grain deserts where there should be wild nature. When agriculture absorbs 60%. of our land area, it is clear that we then have 40%. back to fighting for wild nature and cities and everything else. So we also need to reduce that amount. At the same time, meat consumption is also a health problem, especially for people who do not usually eat it, which suddenly has to do so if they cannot have a plant-based alternative. So there is a need for us in this Chamber to help with some legislation in this area, at least in order to ensure that people have a meat-free choice. Well, this has nothing to do with people eating meat or forcing people not to. After all, this is something about giving people the individual individuals, the individual people the opportunity to choose for themselves. However, it seems that the Socialists have parked their efforts in relation to this concrete proposal in the hope that the municipalities themselves will be able to find out; I just hope that this will not be done in very many areas, because then there is good enough reason for some legislation if we are to achieve our climate targets. The bourgeois conceal their opposition to the proposal behind such a concept of freedom that is virtually in total decline. In other words, the Left always says that it is personal freedom that applies until agriculture or another major interest pokes them on the back and says: we are putting that right here, because we have some economic interests at stake. I do not think that is a concept of freedom that can be trusted any longer. I think it has become a neoliberal concept of freedom. Now I am not generally sceptical that we will be focusing on plant-based food in the coming time. In the alternative, we tried to have a plant-based knowledge centre on the Finance Act, and we continue to fight for that. And there are several good initiatives in the Finance Act that promote the plant-based agenda, and I am sure that we have a minister who will prioritise the plant-based agenda. So we have hope in the alternative. My hope was that perhaps we could have given the area a political boost today, and what we are doing is, of course, to continue fighting for it. And we are truly going to go out in our municipal election campaign and talk about plant-based food wherever we can find the opportunity, and like last time we will be serving thousands of small warm plant-based garbage meals on the streets of the country's cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115004	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. First, it's for Mrs. Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115008	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur for the positive attitude that is good. In a previous comment to another rapporteur, Mr. Torsten Gejl that we should have a green diet in the state kitchens. For that to be quite clear, I would like to know whether the alternative is talking about state cafeterias or about public kitchens in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115032	In other words, the proposal now goes to public kitchens, and that is what we support, but in the first place it is the state canteens we can influence from here. That is why I was annoyed that the government withdrew its proposal for two meat-free days instead of unfolding it stately and then influencing the municipalities and regions to do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115054	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer. I would remind you that we must remember to press in, and Mrs Susanne Zimmer did just at the last minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115100	Thank you to the rapporteur. In fact, I still wonder whether the rapporteur is talking about state kitchens or public kitchens in general, because there is a big difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115110	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115111	Thank you. The alternative is that we should have the opportunity to choose plant-based food ourselves in all Member States.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115122	Thank you. Then it's mr. Anders Kronborg from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115126	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for this speech. I would say that the speech may have turned off a little bit of the spark I had thought there was in the alternative. When I mention the alternative myself, it is by hope, by local activism, and by believing that at grassroots level you can also make a difference. When the speaker from the platform says that more legislation is needed in this area, I would just like to hope that the rapporteur will spread it out a little. What is the extra legislation that the rapporteur wants? For extra legislation is also more rules, more bureaucracy, less local self-determination and probably less activism. So can the rapporteur not just mention what extra laws and regulations the rapporteur wants to introduce?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115221	I do not understand how the introduction of legislation has suddenly become something awful bad in itself. Well, that's what we're doing here. After all, we are a Parliament which is trying to improve the world through legislation. And the rapporteur's own party does so in the climate legislation. Law by law makes detailed legislation. What, then, is suddenly so terrible about legislation in this area? To answer more precisely: the legislation I believe should be made is to provide people with an optional plant-based alternative in public kitchens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115251	I would just like to ask you to remember to press, even the second time, if you are going to have a brief comment. Thank you. Here you go, sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115259	Thank you. It's not a practice I've been used to. I am sorry, and I will remember that in the future, that is to say that we will have to press the second time if we wish to speak again. The rapporteur now mentions the Climate Act; it has been adopted in this Parliament. The rapporteur mentions the precise legislative proposal put forward by Mrs Susanne Zimmer, which we are discussing here. But now it was the rapporteur himself who said that there is a need for more Will the rapporteur not lift the veil from my curiosity; I have two ears and a mouth, and therefore I would like to listen to what extra legislation the rapporteur thinks needs to be done? That is what I am asking the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115333	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115334	I do not know whether the rapporteur has got the impression that first we have to adopt this and then we have to make extra legislation. In the first place, I would like this proposal to be adopted, because I think it is really a choice for us to have, in terms of whether we want to eat plant-based food in public kitchens, especially for those who have lived a long life as vegans or vegetarians, and for whom it is not actually easy to digest meat for the first time in many years, when they may already be in a situation of pressure.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115408	Here you go, sir. Carl Valentin of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115410	I would like to say first of all that I think it is, Mr President. Anders Kronborg says that you should turn off hope by suggesting it here, and that you forget grassroots work and something like that, is a little strange, because this proposal is precisely a product of grassroots work. It is precisely a product of the fact that the Danish Vegetarian Association has fought hard for this for a very long time. That is why I do not think there is any way to forget the grassroots work by working for this. In addition, I would just like to thank the alternative, because although this is a proposal from the Danish Vegetarian Association, I know that it is a resolution drawn up in the Alternative. Now it is the Free Greens who are putting it forward, but it is the alternative that has done a great deal of the work. So I would just like to thank the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party for their work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115458	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115459	Enjoy your meal, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Carl Valentin for having taken a strong policy into the Folketing on a plant-based diet for SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115508	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115512	I understand that the rapporteur believes that it is important that citizens also have the opportunity to choose a plant-based diet in the public institutions, but at the same time the rapporteur was in favour of the proposal to introduce meat-free days, thereby depriving meat-eaters of their ability to choose meat. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115539	This is due to the fact that we have a climate crisis that is really, really bad and that other parties than the New Citizens must take care of solving, although it is probably also the children of the New Citizens who will benefit from it. With regard to the free choice here of being able to choose plant-based food, it is for the alternative a freedom agenda. It's actually very funny that I have to lecture New Citizens about personal freedom. New citizens have just stood up and rejected it by saying that it is up to the municipal authorities to decide whether citizens should have personal freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115618	Here you go, sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115621	It is not because we want to ban anyone from introducing a plant-based meal. It is simply because we believe that it is a decision that needs to be taken locally. Therefore, there is no contradiction between the things I say. But I find it strange that at the same time meat-eaters should be deprived of their right to choose what they want.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115641	I think the bourgeois ideal of freedom has left. For many years, people have fought for their personal and individual rights and the right to cherish and choose their own lives. Here we say that this is what we are doing by giving people the opportunity to opt for a meat-free alternative. But apparently there are some interests around that make it the case that personal freedom has been abolished for the benefit of some economic That is where I say that the liberal concept of freedom has slipped in these years.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115716	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl you just have to remember that you walk down the rows of chairs, because then we don't cross each other. There are no more brief comments, and then we should welcome the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Susanne Zimmer, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209115732	Thank you very much. I would like to start by thanking you for the good debate we have had. Thank you for all the inputs, and thank you for more or less support. It's been nice to hear. For the Free Greens, it is very important that we ensure a green-satisfying alternative in all public kitchens. There are 140,000 people here in Denmark who are vegetarians or vegans, and there are 660,000 people who live partly vegetarian. In fact, it is one in seven of us who live either vegetarian, close to vegetarian or vegan. That's 57%. of citizens who want to eat less meat and more green. And if you take a look at the young people aged 18-24, the percentage is as high as 70. Coop has made a study asking citizens for a representative sample, whether they support a free green meal in all public kitchens, and there are 44 per cent. by the Danes who support it, and only a small group that opposes it. And the fact that you have a green meal or a green offer when you are in a public kitchen means that there are many more who eat more green and less meat. Among other things, you can. Look at the Region Hospital Randers, where it is between a third and a quarter of the inmates who actually take advantage of the green meal. But that's not just what we each think. In fact, it is also the case that the Court of Human Rights has ruled that we all have the right to live in vegan. In Norway, they have taken it on board and the equal opportunities Ombudsman has established the same thing, and this means that the health authorities in Norway are complying with it here. This also means that in Norway they have a diet guide for children who live vegetarian or vegan • a diet guide that we in the Free Greens had for first reading last week, because we do not have it in Denmark. Now I mention some figures which say that more young people live plant-based than older people do, but there are also many older people. As has previously been the case, it is in fact the case that in 56 of the municipalities you cannot be sure as a citizen of a care centre to be allowed to live vegetarianly, and that is why Danske Senierer and Elders The case also recommends that you get this legislation that gives you the right to have a green meal. I also believe that we have all heard horror stories from people who have been hospitalized. Some of them have been there, but I can, for example. add a story about a young woman who is going to give birth and who is being told that she must bring a lunch when she is going to give birth because they cannot offer her a green meal, or one about a middle-aged doctor who is living vegetarian and who is in hospital for a whole week without having an adequate meal. This means that people who come to the hospital to be helped, to get well, may get healthy, but at the same time their nutritional status may become worse and the health condition will be brought to a halt. But this is also important in kindergarten. Well, children living in vegetarian or vegan families may have to either eat meat or bring a lunch. And you might say that may seem a small challenge, but actually eating in a community is a great social thing for the children, so it's not nice to have a lunch with them. That's why I know there's a lot of people eating meat anyway. Then we also have the economy. It is well documented that more plant-based diet reduces the incidence of cardiovascular diseases, cancer and diabetes. These are diseases that are very straining for our health system and, of course, for people themselves. And eating more vegetarian, more green can simply save us money on health care. And there it has been calculated in Norway that if you just follow the dietary advice, which includes that you have to eat very green, then you could save 12 billion Norwegian kroner a year. It will of course also apply in Denmark that we can save on our health costs while at the same time creating better health among people. A plant-based option in public kitchens will also help health professionals to take into account that milk allergy sufferers, Jews, Hindus, Buddhists or Muslims can get the diet they want without having to take special account of them. In October, the Minister for Finance made a statement that we should have two meat-free days in all state kitchens. It was climate-based, and for good reason, because it is actually the case that if you eat 1 kg of chicken meat, it would burden CO 2 2 2 2 2 2 Unfortunately, the Minister of Finance withdrew the proposal. But it was also something that could save our climate from CO2 and that would also mean saving money on climate action in the long run. Now a similar motion for a resolution has been tabled, or one that would certainly also promote green diets in 2017 by the Alternative, SF, Radical Left and Enhedslisten, which did not come through. There was also a citizens' proposal in 2017 with 14,000 supporters, who didn't get through either. Now we have the opportunity to do so so that we can help citizens and give them the right to choose a green meal for themselves, their health, the climate and the economy. So, as rapporteur for the Green Group, I would like to present the motion for a resolution, and I refer to the comments on the legislative proposal and to the favourable treatment of the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209120426	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Anders Kronborg from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209120430	Thank you very much for the rapporteur's speech. I have also praised in my own rapporteur's speech the Free Greens for putting this on the agenda and hope that we can have a good debate, and I think it is also impressive that we are again spending a few hours on this important agenda to discuss our diet and the green options. I would like to admit that the story of a woman who has to bring a lunch in a maternity ward, as the alternative rapporteur tells us, is a horrible one. After all, it is also a matter of particular responsibility for the region where this has happened and where there are some regional Council politicians who really need to focus on this. I would like to illustrate by an example of how complex the legislation can be and how rigid this system is, and so I would like to ask the rapporteur how the rapporteur views the example I am setting. After all, I myself am a former municipal politician and therefore one of those whom the rapporteur would like to make up his mind. I was chairman of the Technical and Construction Committee. We often held travel feasts in relation to municipal constructions, and one of the traditions of the travel feasts was that for municipal crowns we hired out a sausage cart so that the craftsmen who did not have canteen conditions like in the Snapsting etc. could go down to get a sausage. That fg. President-in-Office of the Council. ) It was a big day. There I just want to hear Susanne Zimmer: Should a plant sausage be served in connection with upcoming travel feasts when it is municipal construction?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209120546	Before replying to Mrs Susanne Zimmer, I should just like to remind you that it is the Free Greens and not the alternative from which Mrs Susanne Zimmer comes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209120555	Thank you, Mr President. Yes, of course a plant-based sausage must be served, so that everyone can share in the travel feast, because it is a joint project they celebrate, and thus they must also be able to share in eating what is tradition to do when celebrating a travel feast.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209120615	Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209120615-2	But then I think we're in the detail too. We are really out there in retail rather than having a quiet and proper dialogue decentralized. Should there be someone who would rather have a Danish water than a cocio, then one would probably find out, just as one might find out in a decentralized way whether someone wants a plant sausage rather than a normal Danish red sausage. I guess they found out. I think it is too much of the good if we are to make legislation when we have to go all the way down to that detail.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209120648	Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209120649	Now it is not I who have highlighted the details, but the rapporteur asks how to react there, and there is my answer that there must be something for everyone. But this is about a change of culture, that is to say it becomes a matter of course that when you are in a public kitchen, or when it is a travel feast, which is held by a public entity, there must be something to eat for everyone, and then you can choose whether you want to eat a plant-based sausage or a meat-based sausage.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209120719	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Zimmer. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I'm here to postpone the sitting until 8:00 a.m. 1 p.m. where we always start Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209130047	The meeting is open. From the Prime Minister I have received the following announcement: It is by Royal Resolution of 9 December 2020 that the management of the business of the Ministry of Finance from today's date must be entrusted to the Minister of Taxation. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 9 December 2020 provides that from 9 December 2020 up to and including 5 February 2021, the management of the business of the Ministry of Finance will be entrusted to tax minister Morten Bødskov. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Mette Frederiksen
ParlaMint-DK_20201209130137	I have to inform you that those of Alex Vanopslagh (LA) under No. 4) and 16) addressed questions to the Minister of Justice (pm. No. S 543) and the Minister for Defence (pm. No. S 542) is deleted from the agenda at the request of the author. I should also like to inform you that Mr Schack Elholm, under No. 6) and 7) addressed questions to the Minister for Taxation (pm. No. S 546 and S 547) are deleted from the agenda at the request of the author. First there is a question for the Minister of Justice from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209130144	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209130146	Thank you. Is it the Minister's view that the NOST has carried out the mass excavation of mink soundly and satisfactorily?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209130152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209130153	The National Operative Stab, in daily terms NOST, is activated when Denmark is affected or affected by major crises or incidents. The NOST has the task of coordinating across sectors, including creating and maintaining an overview of the crisis situation. NIST is headed by the National Police and is also composed of a number of other authorities who are permanent members of the NOST. Other authorities may be notified to the NOST as required, as has been the case during the corona crisis. The response in Denmark is based on five basic principles, which include: is about equality, closeness and cooperation. There is also a principle of so-called sectoral responsibility. Sectoral responsibility means that the authority responsible for a task on a daily basis is also responsible for the task when a major accident or disaster occurs. In other words, the division of responsibilities between the authorities involved is not the responsibility of each authority within its own area of responsibility. As far as I am aware, the mink disposal operation was discussed and coordinated in the NOST. In addition to the National Police and the Danish Food Authority, among other things, took part. The Defence Command and the Environmental Protection Agency in the planning. This was an extremely comprehensive and unfamiliar task for all the authorities, which had to be dealt with in a very short time. If the questioner would like to know more about the specific facts or further assessments of the action in relation to each of the authorities involved, I would ask the questioner to put a written question which I or any other relevant minister can answer in writing, as this will require the collection of information from the underlying authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209130334	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209130335	I note that the Minister for Justice does not answer the question whether it is the Minister's opinion that the NOST has carried out the mass excavation of mink properly and properly. The Minister will not answer that question. Last week we had the Minister's colleagues in consultation, both the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Food. They said in that consultation that the Minister for the Environment had not ordered this mass excavation, and the Minister for Food said it was not them either, but then referred to the NOST. They're the ones who did this mass excavation. And where did the order come from? The Minister of Justice must be able to explain that. Today we can read in Jyllands-Posten that the authorities said that the police called about mink graves, but that it didn't happen, so the mayors weren't told. That is why I would like answers to the questions I am asking here during Question Time. We could not get an answer to the consultation where we had the Minister's colleagues inside. Who gave the order for the mass excavation, and is it the view of the Minister that the NOST has carried out the mass excavation of mink properly and satisfactorily? Is that something the Minister will answer here today? It is therefore problematic that the mayors in the municipalities should not be informed, and when you are in a consultation last week, the Minister's colleagues say that they are not the ones who have given the order for this mass excavation. Therefore, I would like the Minister for Justice's answer as to whether it is the Minister's opinion that the NOST has carried out the mass excavation of mink safely and satisfactorily, and who gave the NOST the order for this mass excavation. I don't suppose it's something the NIST has decided himself, so now you want to make these mass graves? The order must come from somewhere, and the Minister of Justice must answer that today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209130518	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209130519	Well, the framework for such a question as what we are discussing now, i.e. a §20 question, is that I have to answer on the basis of the knowledge that is immediately available to me. The questions put by the questioner clearly require information from a wide range of authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209130534	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209130535	I am actually asking about the Minister's position. Is it the Minister's view that the NOST has carried out mass excavation of mink soundly and satisfactorily? That is a matter of opinion. It is entirely within the framework of what I, as a politician, can ask the Minister for Justice today. Will the Minister answer that? I understand that the Minister will not answer who gave the order for the mass excavation, but the Minister will have to answer whether it is the Minister's opinion that this mass excavation has been carried out in a proper and satisfactory manner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209130611	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209130612	However, it is no use taking an issue which is an issue that requires factual knowledge, and then rewording it to an attitude issue and then thinking that it comes within § 20. This type of question has to be addressed in written questions so that we have the opportunity to obtain the material necessary to identify the question and thus answer relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209130633	The last question to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209130633-2	After all, the Minister has had plenty of time to do so in relation to this question of whether it is the Minister's opinion that the NOST has carried out the mass excavation of mink properly and satisfactorily. It's a question of opinion I'm asking the Minister for Justice. Has this been done in a proper manner? Has this been done satisfactorily? The Minister of Justice must be able to answer that question. It is entirely within the framework. And the Minister of Justice has an entire civil service that could have prepared the Minister of Justice for what the Minister of Justice meant in this question. So I ask again: is it the view of the Minister that the NOST has carried out the mass excavation of mink soundly and satisfactorily?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209130710	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209130711	Same question, same answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209130717	The question is over. We thank Mrs Karina Adsbøl. We'll continue with questions to the Minister of Justice, but now it's from mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209130724	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209130725	Thank you, President. Will the Minister follow up on the reply to § 20-Question No. S 475 and 476 during Question Time on 2 December 2020 clarify whether he does not agree that it is most likely to be categorized as part of the intention degrees if one is aware, as a minister, that a legal basis may not be available and yet either itself or through his ministerial colleagues acts as if it existed and that it must certainly be categorised as gross negligence?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209130813	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209130820	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the question. After all, this is an interesting legal question which follows on from the discussion which the questioner opened at Question Time last week. That is why I think that if we are going to move down this road, we need to be able to put the concrete away. Because it is not for me, as Minister of Justice, to make a concrete assessment of responsibility here in the Folketing, even if the question is wisely formulated abstractly. What I can say is the same thing I said last week, namely that there is no basis for saying that ministers, including myself, were aware of the last two paragraphs of the case in connection with the Covid-19 Committee, which was discussed last week, that there was no legal basis for killing all minks. As I explained in the reply last week, in the first paragraph of the report, it is not clear which elements require legislation. Nor can it be deduced from the second paragraph that there was no legal basis for killing all mink in Denmark, but that it was necessary to clarify whether there was already a legal basis or to introduce new legislation if later it was decided to kill all mink in Denmark. In addition, it is decided that a new decision document will be submitted to the government if the professional authorities consider that the spread of infection in mink herds should require further action. So what is the problem with the question is that I do not agree with the premise that all the ministers and myself in the Covid-19 Committee were warned of the lack of a legal basis to kill mink at the meeting on 1 October.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209131000	Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209131001	What the Minister said a week ago when we were here was the following: It was necessary to clarify whether there was already a legal basis or whether new legislation should be introduced if a decision was subsequently made to put all minks to death in Denmark. It is the Minister for Justice's own words from a week ago in connection with this case that it should be clarified. When you want to clarify something, it must be because you are in doubt, that is, because you have been in a situation where there may be legal basis, or perhaps there is no legal basis. But that is precisely what is so incredibly interesting in relation to the degrees of intent in the law of ministerial responsibility. If at that time you are unsure whether there is a legal basis, do you not, as a minister or as a government, have a duty to act and a responsibility to ensure that doubts are swept aside? That is precisely what we are facing here today, and it is also, as the Minister is quite right, in a general sense, an incredibly exciting legal matter to clarify and a very relevant thing to clarify. This cannot be the first time that we, as a minister, have a position that it is unclear whether we should do this or not. What is the question is: what is the duty of the law of ministerial accountability, so that we have as a minister in that situation? Is it a duty to get rid of the doubt, or should one just act and then say: we were not convinced that there was no legal basis? I am quite convinced here and that is why I am asking about the various degrees of intent and, at least, about the gross degree of negligence. I would say that if you are in the situation as a minister, where you cannot say for sure that there is a legal basis, you must have two duties. One is to clarify whether there is then as if there is a legal basis. I would like to know whether the Minister does not agree that, if the two duties are neglected, we are in the alternative in gross negligence.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209131212	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209131213	But I do not agree with that, because I simply do not agree that I or other ministers in the Covid-19 Committee were warned that there was no legal basis for killing all minks on 1 October. And when you read the cover that was part of the treatment, you can see that the matter was of course about the question: what can we do before the killing, which is undoubtedly within the framework of the legislation? The question was about the killing of infected mink and herds with suspicion of infection.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209131255	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209131256	But the Minister of Justice said a week ago, "Well... It was necessary to clarify whether there was already a legal basis or whether new legislation should be introduced if a decision was subsequently made to put all minks to death in Denmark. That is what the Minister of Justice said with reference to the meeting of the relevant committee, which met on 1 October. It must then be assumed that, from 1 October until the order to kill all minks is given, it has not been clarified, because then the order would not have been given. At that time, you would know that there was no legal basis, and it would be obvious that it would be the highest degree of intent. But is it not deliberate to deliberately refrain from finding out whether there is a legal basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209131337	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209131338	What is the situation when we reach the stage of 3 November when the matter is dealt with in the coordination committee is that it should of course have been stated that here there is therefore a legal position that we have to deal with. What I am just saying is that it cannot be said that the ministers who attended the Covid-19 Committee meeting on 1 October were warned that there was no legal basis for killing all minks in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209131411	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, final question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209131412	Is it generally accepted among ministers that when you are told that something needs to be clarified, it is not a call for clarification, then you can just sit back and say: 'Well, we don't know about that.' For then I think that the Minister is a little bit on rocking ground in relation to general understanding and also the general legal concept of what is a ministerial responsibility. If you are told by the official apparatus or by other experts that we need to clarify whether this is there before we do it and then you do nothing, then you have neglected your office with certainty politically, but most probably also legally.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209131450	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209131455	Well, where the problem materializes in this case, is after all the 3rd of November when the decision is made. In other words, no decision will be taken on the killing of all mink in Denmark on 1 October. The decision was then about something quite different, namely mink in the infected areas, mink in infected farms and then the surrounding areas, what is undoubtedly the legal basis and legal basis for all the time. And then it is pointed out that if you're going to go outside this area, we need clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209131523	The question is closed. We will continue with a question to the Minister of Justice and also with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209131528	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209131529	What considerations is the Minister making about section 5 of the Ministerial Responsibility Act in relation to ministers who consciously keep in ignorance of the legality of a particular case, while at the same time carrying out orders according to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209131543	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209131544	It is, in fact, the same issue that we are revolved about again, and it is an interesting legal question, and I really would like the questions to have been put in a way so that we could get into the real legal discussion of it and disconnect it from what is our disagreement, namely the question of what kind of commitment arose from the meeting of the Covid-19 Committee, which we also talked about last week. 'Cause I'm gonna end up in the same place. I do not agree with the suggestion made by the questioner that there should have been ministers who kept themselves consciously ignorant.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209131630	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209131630-2	The Minister does not agree that there are ministers who have kept themselves consciously ignorant, but we know that at the time an order is given to kill all minks, i.e. also outside the zones concerned, there has been no legal basis for this. And we know from last week's debate that more than a month before, the Covid-19 group knew that it had to be clarified whether there was a legal basis for it. I simply do not understand that, Minister. It may well be too specific, because we have this whole debate and there are also some consultations that are going on and something like that, so we can get it out in a different context. What if an integration minister is told by his departmental manager that a desire to separate spouses, one of whom is a minor, may be contrary to some international obligations, and then the minister says: Uha, I would like to know nothing about that; we are going on, but I am conscious of ignorance, because in this way I cannot know that I am violating the law, the convention, or whatever it may be hypothetically? Does the Minister for Justice not agree that the purely hypothetical situation is clearly a compromise of the law of ministerial responsibility, if you say so: I do not want to know anything about it at all? I'd like to hear that. And now we're not talking about the mink case at all. We're just talking about another thought scenario.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209131759	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209131804	What is annoying about this otherwise good debate is that some premises are being put in, which we will then have to talk about before we get to the core. I do not agree that an order was placed, and that is why the premise of the question falls away. What kind of order has been given that is illegal? Then we cannot get to the heart of what I think the questioner really wants to discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209131826	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209131827	Now it is as if it is the Minister who is stuck in what we do not want to talk about in mink and monks etc. In other words, we are talking abstractly: let us say we are dealing with a minister who is told by his Head of Department that what he or she wants to do may not be legal. So the minster asks the head of department: are we now sure there is no legal basis? The answer is: Ah, we are not, but it would be wise to clarify that. And then the Minister answers: let us not settle this, but just keep driving, because then I do not know that we are acting in violation of the law. Does the Minister for Justice not agree that in such a scenario the Minister would have violated the Ministerial Responsibility Act § 5, because he deliberately chooses to go on without making sure that there is a legal home?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209131909	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209131910	What is of course the problem here is that two grounds are being added again which are not true, i.e. among other things. the premise that it was something he or she understood as the Minister would like to do. What was the case in the Covid-19 Committee was not, of course, and then there is the second premise: if you are presented as a minister with the question and you are told that they are not sure that there is legislation on it, then you should say that we should not have clarified that. What is happening in the Covid-19 Committee is precisely that it says: we need to clarify this; if the situation, which we have not taken a position on, arises at some point, we should remember to clarify it. That is why, to the best of my knowledge, the grounds for the question of conscious ignorance are not right.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209131949	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt for his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209131950	Then we remove all the premises which are relevant to both this case and to other cases of thought, and then we ask in general terms: does the Minister of Justice agree that the element of the law of ministerial responsibility outside the degrees of intent, including gross negligence, also includes a situation in which a minister is warned that there may be no legal basis, but the Minister chooses to ignore the warning and run through with his will? It does not have to be the Ministry of Justice we are talking about; it may be any ministry, any minister and any thought situation, but does the Minister agree that sweeping aside a warning is clearly gross negligence?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209132032	Then it is the Minister for the final answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209132032-2	If you are told, as a minister, that what you are about to do now is not permitted, and yet you are doing so immediately, it is difficult to imagine that you are not in an area where it will call on you, to say the least, considerable attention, also in legal terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209132054	The question is over. Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, and thank the Minister for Justice. The next question (pm. No. S 549) is for the Minister of Finance, and the questioner is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209132107	Please read the question, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209132111	With reference to the fact that the Minister of Finance has recently explained in a reply to the Danish Parliament that the government's economic policy has made all income groups in Denmark poorer, will the acting Minister of Finance answer how poor Denmark should be before the Minister is satisfied?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209132130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209132132	Thank you, President. And thank you for the question. Indeed, the answer is quite simple: Denmark must be richer, and that is the government's policy. Therefore, the government has pursued a comprehensive and supportive strategy in relation to the very serious situation that the Danish economy is in right now, with large aid packages that have secured and saved thousands of jobs that do • if you look at how the corona has hit other countries • that Denmark is fortunately not as hard hit as other countries. Yesterday, a broad majority, unfortunately without the Liberal Alliance and the questioner himself, adopted a green tax reform in which we show that progress, the struggle for growth and new jobs in Denmark go hand in hand with the green transition. So Denmark must be richer, and the government has a clear policy for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209132233	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209132233-2	We can also have a talk about whether Denmark is getting richer. That is not the question. However, in relation to Denmark becoming richer, the government's policy means that there are about 11 000 fewer people in employment, and that means that Denmark is all else equally poorer, namely poorer as a result of the wage that 11 000 people do not earn and the production that 11 000 people do not contribute to producing. But the question was about income groups. All income groups, according to the Finance Minister, become poorer as a result of the policy pursued by the government so far. That is what the Minister for Finance has said. And then my question was: when are the Finance Minister and the acting Finance Minister satisfied? How poor should the Danes be before the Minister of Finance thinks that he has pursued his policy to the end of impoverishing all income groups in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209132323	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209132324	The answer is that Denmark should be richer and Denmark should of course not be poorer and therefore what the government's policy is about, both when we deal with the corona crisis, and when we hold hands under thousands of jobs with comprehensive aid packages that help ensure that business can continue, although it is in an extremely difficult situation, to develop, still gain new orders, keep people in jobs, be active in their local areas in attracting and creating growth, and most recently a green tax reform that has made us show that what everyone is talking about, namely green conversion, can easily go hand in hand with prosperity and growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209132405	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209132406	The question of how poor Denmark should be is linked here to the income groups which are all becoming poorer. It could be a rather absurd séance if the acting Finance Minister would constantly insist on overlooking the fact that the issue is about the income groups that the government's policy makes poorer. That's all the 10%. The poorest, the 10%. The richest and the 10%. in the middle • income groups that become poorer as a result of government policy. That is, of course, what the Minister of Finance has said in an answer, and it is in relation to that that the question is how poor the income groups should be before the Minister of Finance is satisfied.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209132448	Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209132449	I replied to what was asked, that is, when the Minister will be satisfied, in relation to how poor Denmark should be. As a minister, of course, I do not agree with that at all, and in addition, Mr President. Mr Ole Birk Olesen also states that the paragraph in favour of the answer to the question is based, nicely put, on an imprecise reading of the answer to that question. We believe that there are other elements than exactly tax relief that make Denmark rich, and some of the elements are to pursue an active crisis policy, an active fiscal policy and an active policy for a green transformation of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209132527	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen to ask questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209132528	But there is also something other than tax policy in the question to the Minister for Finance, who the Minister for Finance answers by saying that all income groups have become poorer. It also includes people on the transfer incomes that are raised. Yet they are 10%. The poorest have become poorer by this government's policy because it has raised the taxes on those people more than it has raised their transfer income. So the question is: does this stop making all income groups poorer at some point, and perhaps the Minister for Finance will at some point answer the question that is being asked and not insist on answering something that has not been asked in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209132604	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209132605	If you look at one of the so-called tax increases that is included in the answer, it is, for example, the increase in tobacco taxes that cross my two resources now, namely the area of both the Minister of Taxation and the Minister of Finance. It has a clear health objective, and it is to keep people out of smoking and ensure that fewer people die from smoking, that people have a better life and that they live longer. It helps make society richer. That is why it is an imprecise reading, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen makes the answer here. The government's policy is that Denmark should be richer. We need more growth and we need more employment, and an active crisis policy and an active policy for green conversion are two absolutely vital answers to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209132643	The question is over. Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. We continue with questions (pm. No. S 548) to the same minister, but now it is Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative, which is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209132702	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209132703	Thank you. I take it a little slowly, because it is a little technical: will the Minister clarify his previous answer to Question No. S 393 on cohabitants under 2 years of age, where early retirement pensioners have been reduced into income and thus can only contribute partially to their common household, that these new cohabitants do not have a tax-free gift amount of DKK 67,100, when employees have to compensate for loss of income by contributing fixed monthly transfers to the early retirement pensionist's standard of living, and that this is income taxed on transfers from DKK 0, except for apartment gifts and common household?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209132754	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209132757	Thank you for the question. First of all, and at the risk of repeating myself, from the moment we were here two weeks ago, I think it was • I would like to stress that the rules on the interdependence of early retirement are part of the benefit legislation and not of the tax rules. So a more specific question, and that is quite fair, we can easily take this • you can also get an answer by asking it to my colleague, the Minister for Employment. But I would like to say that in my view it is a fundamental healthy principle that the welfare society can step in with a secure basis for those citizens, for example. are unable to work and thus support themselves. At the same time, of course, it is important that the funds available should be distributed to those most in need. It is therefore natural that the highest rate should be reserved for the single early retirement pensionist who does not have a partner to share the financial obligations with. However, as I said, this is an issue that belongs in the benefit legislation, and it is not my concern. The questioner refers in his explanatory statement to my reply two weeks ago, as I said. Here I said that there is basically no one who should be afraid to be taxed by ordinary support that they receive from their partner as part of a common household. This is also true, although one contributes more financially than the other. That is what we discussed last time. In the end, I believe that co-habitants themselves can actually find a fair distribution of rent and financial obligations in the relationship, and the tax rules actually accept that too. I still stand by that answer, even in cases where life has lasted less than two years.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209132936	Sir. Torsten Gejl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209132937	The Minister must say, if I am wrong, but it seems to me that we agree that if I have lived with a boyfriend who works as an early-retirer, for example. One year, the boyfriend can't give me money for example. a dental bill without my being taxed. My boyfriend can't give me money for a course or a scooter without me being taxed because it's not common expenses. Does the Minister admit that in this way we risk taxing the lowest incomes five times? I mean, if I'm an early-retirer and I have a boyfriend who works, then I'm taxed by my early-retirement pension. If I then get a payment from my insurance because of an injury that has brought me on early retirement, then I too will be taxed by my insurance. After that, I'm taxed because I live with someone. And then I'm taxed as a result of intercourse or mutual dependency. Finally, if I have lived with my working girlfriend for less than 2 years, I run the risk of having to pay a gift fee for my money for medicine or for dental visits. Can the Minister confirm that this is correct and does the Minister believe that it is reasonable that the lowest incomes risk fivefold taxation?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209133048	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209133049	I think it is a lesson from the experience, firstly, that it is perhaps best that if there is a question relating to a minister other than the one in this Chamber, you put it to him, because then you can get as precise an answer as possible. Secondly, as we also discussed last time, if there are specific cases where there are specific questions, then the tax administration is always prepared to answer those questions, and I think that is the best way to deal with these matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209133116	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209133117	Well, I've asked the Minister for Employment about this, and the reason I've moved on to the tax minister is because I'm asking about tax engineering. Of course, there are 70,000 people who can call in and try to find out what is up and down, but now we have the tax minister here who said in the last Question Time that he wanted to help with this. So my question is whether the Minister can tell us exactly when, as an early retirement worker, if you have been living together with your girlfriend for less than two years, you have to pay taxes. In the case of common expenditure, for example. is a car to which the early retirement has paid a few dollars and the working boyfriend has paid 200,000 kroner. Is it a common car?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209133158	Thank you. Then we get answers from the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209133159	Thank you for that, President. I would like to reply to that, but I would prefer it to be done in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209133207	Sir. Torsten Gejl for his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209133208	In fact, I believe that the tax minister is beginning to understand more and more of this problem, namely that we may have very many people on very low incomes that have ended up in a fiscal border country. And if it turns out to be that way, I would just hope and ask: what is the Minister's signal to them? Will the Minister try to look at how we avoid taxing the lowest incomes five times?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209133237	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209133237-2	Otherwise, if the author agrees, we would be happy to reply to written questions. I think this is the best way to deal with the issue, which I can hear is based on very specific and very specific cases and discussions on border cases, which are perhaps thought to be in a grey area. So ask a written question, if that's okay, we'll answer it. And if there are questions relating to the area of the Minister for Employment, then I think the question should also be put to him.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209133307	The question is closed. Thank you to the Minister, and thank you, Mr President. Torsten Gejl. We move on to questions to the Minister for Health and the elderly. This is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209133323	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209133325	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that it is reasonable that elderly people in nursing homes do not know whether they can have the family on Christmas visits for the sake of national corona restrictions, and will the Minister take steps to ensure the elderly's reasonable visiting conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209133341	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209133343	As I have said many times, I am very aware that visiting restrictions can be very intrusive for both the individual resident and his/her relatives. I know it is difficult for many and that it can be even more difficult now that we are approaching the Christmas celebration, where we are especially used to and need to see our loved ones. That is why I am also pleased that today, in the Covid-19 follow-up group, we have had the opportunity to address the issue with the older rapporteurs and to agree that we are looking at the possibility of adjusting the rules, so that we offer greater flexibility and provide clear communication to the municipalities that have to implement the rules. At the same time, we are faced with a serious, very serious situation in which the covid-19 infection is at a high level and where we have just had to impose extensive restrictions in society which are precisely not sharpened in relation to the possibility for residents of nursing homes to have a visit to Christmas. This means that visits are open unless visiting restrictions or bans are imposed in relation to infection in the individual nursing home. It is extremely important to remember that we are dealing with an infection that we know has serious consequences for our elderly and that it is very serious if the infection comes within the door of the nursing homes, both for the individual, the neighbours, the staff and our health care, etc. That is why I have to stress once again that there is a very important need for protection to be taken in relation to the residents of nursing homes. It is a group that is particularly exposed to the infection. The starting point is, of course, that visits to nursing homes have generally been open since 2 July 2020 and it is only when the Patient Safety Agency considers that it is necessary to impose restrictions on visits or bans to prevent or contain the spread of covid-19 that there are restrictions on visits. Even in this situation, the next of kin can continue to visit the householder's home, as well as visiting the householder in critical situations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209133545	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209133547	In the Danish People's Party we are deeply concerned about our elderly in nursing homes, and we want them to be allowed to decide for themselves who they want to visit. Today they have to choose between their close relatives, which means that if you are an elderly person with four children and a spouse, you have to sort out some of them. I would therefore like to put a question to the Minister. Because in the Danish People's Party we have made several suggestions on how we can do this, also in a safe and sound way: can we do this by showing a negative test? The Minister has refused to do so. We have asked: Is it possible to have a visit from your relatives at your own entrance? The Minister has also rejected this in the past, and this applies to all the proposals we have made by the Danish People's Party to ensure that the elderly are given the right to visit. So it's in their own apartment we're talking about. This means that the elderly have been deprived of their right to self-determination in their own homes. We would like to ask the Minister about this, even in relation to the legal aspect. We fully agree that we must take good care of the elderly, but the elderly are also allowed to decide for themselves in their own homes. So could you do it like that? I'm sure the next of kin will take care of their older ones to ensure fast tests and quick answers? The same is true with regard to nursing homes. In other words, we can see that nursing staff are not tested at all to the extent that they should be and that they do not comply or maintain, it can be said that the agreement that has actually been made between the government and the KL, that is, that they should be tested as well. I've met staff who haven't been tested. I have also met staff who are tested every six weeks and who are themselves puzzled by the long perspective of time. I mean, you have to make sure that everything goes hand in hand. This applies both to ensuring testing and compliance with the recommendations, but also to ensuring that the elderly can be visited by their loved ones during Christmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209133753	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209133755	After all, there is nothing I would rather do as Minister for Health and the Elderly than say: now we are opening up at Christmas. It could be a wonderful message to say: Now we are opening up to all visitors. The only problem is that at the same time I would have to tell the elderly and their relatives that then we will have safe chains of infection, where the infection is spreading at the speed of lightning in places where it should not spread. Even with the restrictions we have and extensive testing, we now have many infected. Most recently today, in the newspaper Politiken, there is a description of a situation in a nursing home in Amager with over 90 infected people.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209133834	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209133836	But it is because the government chooses to run tests every 14 days only when you are in the red zone, that is, when the infection has increased. At least that's how I got it. I think that we should take a strong approach to tests, i.e. with quick tests and answers, because then, like the elderly, we could also allow them to have a little more than one visitor in their own home, right? It is worrying that we have so many elderly people who sit and become lonely. It is not only in nursing homes; it is in fact also in our own homes that we have seen examples of the elderly spouse who has a demented husband or wife being isolated and where we have seen that there is a lack of adequate help and support.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209133919	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209133922	Yes, I fully agree that this is worrying. And that's why there's an appeal from me to all relatives for a visit, because it's perfectly permissible everywhere. If it's even possible, to go for a walk with the elderly, and if you have an elderly person in your family, to have it organized with visits. This means that you can give it chocolate plate and keep the Christmas tradition in place, but at the same time keep the distance that it takes and remember the despriting and all the other measures. It's easy to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209133955	Karina Adsbøl for her last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209133956	I should like to ask the Minister for Health and the elderly what exactly he will do to ensure that the elderly can be visited by their close relatives. We fully agree that we must take good care of the elderly, but we also believe that the Minister for the Elderly is failing to find viable solutions. We have asked for these recommendations and, in a ministerial reply, we have been told that we can get those recommendations in January. Yes, the Minister has answered that. We have asked how this can be done in a health-friendly way, and we have been told that we can get an answer in January.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209134033	Then it is the Minister who answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209134034	No, it's a misunderstanding that I have to correct here now. We have just had a meeting today, and it would be a failure if I were to stand as Minister for the Elderly and open up the chains of infection, deadly chains of infection, inside our care for the elderly. It would be a failure of the individual elderly, of all those who live there, of all the employees and of the relatives. So we have to have some restrictions and then we have to do as well as we possibly can. That is what our meeting this morning was about, and I look forward to implementing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209134105	Thank you. The question is closed. Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. We will continue with the Minister, but now it is with a question from Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209134113	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209134114	Thank you very much. Does the Minister consider that it is acceptable when the treatment of patients who fail other than corona is downgraded and that it is acceptable and professionally justified to overlook other diseases due to covid-19 • according to e.g. the case of a young woman who was referred by her own doctor to the hospital with clear signs of meningitis, or the woman who called several times and as it turned out had cancer • even though the minister promised that cancer treatment should not stop?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209134145	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209134146	I would like to reply very clearly to that: no, it is not acceptable if necessary treatment is downgraded. Back in March, the concern of the health authorities was that hospitals could be overloaded. In order to release staff and capacity in the country's hospitals, it was decided, on the basis of advice from the health authorities, to postpone a number of treatments for non-acoustic and non-life-threatening diseases. It cannot be ruled out that in January or February we will again be faced with the situation in which we have to prioritize ourselves, we cannot rule out anything at this time, but we are doing everything we can to prevent us from getting there. Throughout the pandemic, also in March and April, the general practitioners and the medical officer were responsible for inspecting their patients when they needed them. At the same time, it is important that the practitioners themselves do not become infected with covid-19 and thus have to close their practice for a period of time or that their practice becomes a spread of infection, because this will also have major consequences for the other patients who are at risk of passing the infection on to other vulnerable patients in general practice. Therefore, if there is a suspicion of covid-19, the practitioners must initially search telephones. In October, a new organisation was registered where the general practitioners can refer a patient with symptoms of covid-19 to tests where the analysis of the sample is carried out quickly so that the patient can be resolved quickly in general practice if this test is negative. It can, for example, be done. be relevant to the suspicion of lung cancer, where it is important to quickly rule out covid-19, but equally important to get a rapid diagnosis so that you can address a serious disease where rapid action needs to be taken. This should ensure that patients who fail anything other than covid-19 are not overlooked or put in the back of the queue. Tests prior to further investigation in general practice are only relevant if the patient can see the condition for 24 hours. If acute clinical evaluation is required on the same day, the physician shall refer to acute clinical evaluation and tests in a covid-19 assessment clinic.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209134350	Here you go, Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209134350-2	Thank you. We have to look after our doctors, we have to look after our staff. They're the ones in the front line. But I guess so. I understand that initially there was a little fear, because there were not enough protective equipment, and practitioners also found it difficult to get hold of it. But very quickly you went in and said you could use both phone and video calls. As I can see, the two cases I am referring to are in the younger part, so I am sure they have FaceTime and other things that the doctor could have called up so you could have had a close encounter with them on a screen. Well, these are some who have called repeatedly. We have one who had meningitis, and she was between life and death and would have been dead if she had not moved on and had been alleged. And then we have Dunja, who called 11 times, and yes, at first it was when it was difficult compared to the corona, but 11 times in four months, and then it turns out to be an incurable cancer, where you say you wouldn't see the person. So, that is what corona has done, and there is the question: the Minister promised that they have cancer cases to have the same approach as otherwise, and we know that it is the non-specific one that can be difficult to diagnose many times, so what the Minister has done in October will solve these problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209134521	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209134522	First of all, it is important to make it clear that, when the planned treatments were postponed back in the spring, this was precisely the case, and I am very pleased that they are repeated from Liselott Blixt that emergency treatment and treatment of life-threatening diseases could not be postponed and the cancer packages went on completely untouched. Therefore, it is very important to repeat for everyone, including for doctors and also for patients and for citizens in general: Visit the doctor, who is perfectly clear guidelines for dealing with acute, life-threatening disease.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209134558	Mrs. Liselott Blixt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209134559	Thank you. Now we have come so far that hopefully we are aware of this and that doctors are sending them more quickly, as the Minister says that we have been able to do since 1 October. After all, these were just supposed to have been in for a scan, so you could have discovered it, and you could have splashed off afterwards, and there was no close touch. Today we can also see that there are 33 per cent. fewer people who come and get a cancer diagnosis. This means that we can potentially have 2,800 people carrying cancer and who are not being investigated. I hope this isn't because the doctors don't send them on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209134633	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209134634	I have seen the figures, as I know, coming from the fight against cancer. I take them very, very seriously. I mean, it's too early to tell where the blame lies. I think that there may be many different reasons for this, but there are no reasons that are good enough and there are no excuses that are good enough. After all, we are dealing with people with a serious illness, and we know that time counts. The longer it takes to discover it, the less likely it will be to survive and to receive the necessary treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209134706	Mrs Liselott Blixt for her last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209134707	I am glad that the Minister takes it seriously, but the problem is that these people will have to fight many times afterwards to get a replacement because there are doctors who have not seen them. So I hope that the Minister will also look at making it a little easier so that people who have become extra ill with these things do not have to fight extra hard to get on with their progress.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209134731	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209134731-2	It is clear that it is already a heavy burden to go with something you are nervous about what is, and then get to know what you have feared, namely that it is a life-threatening disease you have gone with, and then do not feel that enough has been put in. We must, of course, do everything we can to help and pick up health professionals, but also to help if they are to receive financial compensation under the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209134752	The question is over. We shall continue with the Minister and also with Mrs Liselott Blixt who is asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209134757	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209134758	Thank you very much. Does the Minister believe that there is reason to take the plans to move the child cancer area to Copenhagen, which is currently in the region of Copenhagen. Is there any reason why the Commission should not take a decision on this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209134818	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209134819	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by saying that I have a great deal of sympathy for the insecurity, the very unhappy insecurity that this debate brings to the families of children suffering from cancer, the children themselves and, of course, the employees, but above all the families who have so much to contend with. According to the Health Act, it is the task of the Danish Health Service to establish special functions in the hospital system, and this also lies in the responsibility to ensure a high professional quality in the treatment and overall treatment of patients on an ongoing basis. There is an increasing complexity in the investigation and treatment of cancerous children, which is why the Danish Health Authority has thought that there has been a need to look at the organisation of the child cancer area, and the professional work they have started with an arm's length study for my ministry is under the auspices of the Advisory Committee on Specialist Planning. I note that the Board of Directors informs us that the technical review has not been completed, that no decisions have been taken and that thorough discussions continue to be held. I can also inform you that on 3 December 2020 the Board of Directors has announced that it has decided to postpone the further process until after Easter 2021 and that they have announced the need for a joint discussion with the five regions of status at work and the further process. I interpret that as being precisely because of the uncertainty and insecurity raised by this process. I would like to reiterate that it is absolutely crucial for me that the best possible care is taken of cancer-stricken children and their families throughout the country. I expect the future organisation of children's oncology in Denmark to be carefully considered and discussed with the regions and other relevant actors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135004	Here you go, Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135005	I think this is a very, very sad story. Because we see that this is an area where you want to take from a great many regions, not from the Region of Zealand, because they have nothing, but the other regions that actually have a very high quality in the area of child cancer. There are families who spend more than 100 days a year on it and who may also have other children they need to take care of, a family they need to take care of, and who suddenly have the prospect of perhaps going to the Kingdom Hospital, to the capital, that is, the place that is hardest and most expensive to get to and just get accommodation or make sure you can park a car or whatever else. That is the most problematic area. At the same time, we know that it is difficult to get specialists out to other regions, and here the Minister has a responsibility. It has been said on several occasions that every effort will be made to get more specialists into other regions, but here we will once again take a specialty for the metropolitan area, where we have plenty of specialists, but we need them everywhere else in the country. So the Minister could easily say: there will be none of that, we will close it here. As long as the quality is there, and as long as we have the doctors out there, we should take this off the table. After Easter is a very long time and they will already see that there are doctors who do not seek out to those areas. So you destroy it. After all, you do the same thing as you did with the Statens Serum Institute, where you said you'd sell the vaccine part. Then all the employees stopped, and what happened? There was a huge deficit.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135145	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135146	It is the Danish Health Authority which is responsible under the Health Act for ensuring quality and ensuring that the necessary adjustments are made. This is an area where the questioner is also aware of the complexity of the problem, and of the various cancers that affect these children, some of them are extremely rare. Some are a little more widespread, but some of them are extremely rare, and we have to ensure that the organisation that exists meets that complexity. After all, it is a question of saving the lives of as many people as possible and thus ensuring that there is a good quality level everywhere in Denmark, and this is the work that the board is doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135224	Liselott Blixt, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135225	But if the Minister thinks that a decision should be taken, why put it on hold now?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135233	I don't think I fully understood the question. What I am advocating here and what I am defending here is the legislation in force in this area. I am defending the distribution of roles where the Danish Health Authority is responsible for assessing, and what I explain is why the Danish Health Authority has set in motion and is constantly in the process of assessing specific special plans to see: Do we do anything? Can we learn something from abroad? Are we gonna catch up enough? Well, are we good enough to treat these serious cancers? I don't see any reason why I should get involved in this work politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135308	Mrs Liselott Blixt for her last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135309	The Minister is the supreme power, the Minister is the one who is responsible and the Minister could get almost all the parties to back up; so there is nothing to prevent a decision from being taken immediately or ending it completely. What has been done now is that they say that now we put it quietly and let it rest. That means you're going to starve an area. Is that the way to move the cancer treatment for children to the Rigshospitalet? Is that the way to achieve it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135335	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135337	I think I will have to repeat what I said in my introduction, because it is obviously not entirely communicated clearly enough. It is crucial for me that the best possible care is taken of cancer-stricken children and their families throughout the country. I expect the future organisation of children's oncology in Denmark to be carefully considered and discussed with the five regions and other relevant actors.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135404	The question is over. Thank you to the Minister and thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt. Then we move on to a question to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries of Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, and the questioner is Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135419	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135420	Thank you very much. The question is quite simple: is the minister of the position that the mink mass graves should be emptied by Christmas?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135430	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135431	Let me start by saying that we have been in a very unfortunate and unfortunate situation, where there were enormously many minks that had to be handled at the same time, and there you have looked at everything you could: the possibility of sending these minks to Daka, having them sent to burning and otherwise handled. There has then been a remnant of mink, which one had to handle quickly, and there they chose to bury them. This has caused a lot of concern in the local population. There are also municipalities and mayors who have felt that they have not been properly informed. I'm sorry about that. I have made contact with them immediately, and what we have said is that we have now set the Danish Food Authority in motion to make a decision so that we can deal with these minks as soon as possible, preferably by digging them up and burning them or something else. We are still waiting for that basis of decision. I wish I could stand here and promise it could be up to Christmas. I think that's overoptimistic. But I would like us to deal with this as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135544	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135545	It was not a very precise answer that came from the Minister, but I understand that after all, the Minister is sorry that we have reached the point where we have reached, namely that over one night we are just such an out-of-the-box and without a legal basis I am not going to blame the Minister for Food for this because it is under his colleague's authority, namely the Minister for the Environment, who is setting up the graves and also without even involving the municipalities, let alone give any kind of information to the local people about what is actually going on. But now the Minister is talking about providing a basis for decision-making to remove the dead mink, that is to say to remove the mink pits. When does the Minister expect to have that basis for decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135646	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135647	First of all, I would like to correct the misunderstanding that there has been no information at all for the municipalities concerned. The Danish Food Authority has informed the municipalities, but unfortunately and unfortunately to some direct mailbox, and that is of course not good enough at all. That is why I have made it that, as soon as I heard about this matter, I have simply called the mayors concerned and made sure that there is a close dialogue between the authorities and the municipality, so that it is done comfortably and you are right inside the loop in relation to this. The decision-making basis should be ready over the next few days, and I look forward to that and, as I also said for the technical review, I would like to call wide-ranging discussions on how we deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135727	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135728	Well, then we're getting closer to something that looks like something. The Minister emphasizes here that communication and all, what can be said, the prelude and implementation of the mink mass graves have not gone well enough and thanks for that recognition after all. In relation to the very basis of decision which the Minister expects to have on his table in a few days' time, I would say that this means, in fact, that if one now imagines that the speed with which the mass graves were set up will also be put into effect in order to remove them, they will be removed by 24 December.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135806	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135806-2	Now there's a very dramatic picture of how fast it went with digging down these minks. As I'm informed, it took several days to bury them. Now we are in the process of having to wait a few days for a decision-making basis. There are some different models we have to decide on. We need to have a political debate on this, and then we need to deal with this. So I dare not promise that this will happen before Christmas, but I would say that my political wish is that this will happen as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135842	Then it is the co-questioner, Mrs Anni Matthiesen. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135843	Thank you and thank you to the Minister for your reply. I would really like to follow up where my colleague left off. Because I can hear the Minister now saying that within a few days there should be a basis for decision on the Minister's table and that, following that, there should be a political debate. When does the Minister expect to convene political discussions?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135910	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135913	As soon as I can.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135917	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135919	But it would be nice if we could actually hear a minister here today say that this should be possible, perhaps even before Christmas. Well, I'm quite sure that the people of the Left are ready to show up in a hurry, because we know that it means a lot to the people in the local area to get such an extra Christmas present, in the form of these minks being dug up and they being dug up before Christmas. So, Minister, when are we going to a meeting with you?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135946	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209135947	I fully share Mrs Anni Matthiesen's wish for this to happen quickly, and that is also what I am pushing for in my system. Now, first of all, I must have the basis for the decision, and then I will call for these debates. I can't wait. Because it has to be quick, and we can't be anything else familiar.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140001	Then it is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs for her last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140004	No, the government cannot be at all aware of what has happened around the mink mass graves. I fully agree with the Minister on that. That is why the Minister also has a great responsibility to correct, and I had hoped that the Minister in this Chamber could say to those citizens who are really deeply concerned about what the future brings in the light of the minc mass graves in their vicinity that there was an extra wonderful Christmas present for them. But I understand that the Minister is not ready for the unfortunate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140041	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140042	I simply do not believe that anyone is pushing more or harder than I am. Let us bear in mind that this whole problem arose before I became a minister; I realized it a few days after I became a minister. And I've focused on getting this straightened out as soon as possible. I fully share that desire to take rapid action, because we need to clean up here so that people can feel safe again.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140112	The question is over. But we will continue with the Minister and also with Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, who asks and Mrs Anni Matthiesen as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140120	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140122	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that it is appropriate for public health that the government should not be able to explain the whereabouts of 8 000 tonnes of dead mink?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140134	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140135	It is clear that it is very inappropriate that one is in a situation where one can account for the mink that has been burned, the mink that has been handed over to Daka, and the mink that has been dug down, unfortunately, in these graves, and that then there is an outstanding one, where some are in the cool and awaiting burning, but where there are also some places woolly numbers, and where one cannot exactly answer. That is, of course, deeply unsatisfactory. As I understand the authorities, there should be no health risk, but it is deeply problematic that we have not been able to respond more precisely to this. I'm sorry about that. What I am told is that this has happened very quickly. There have been mistakes, and that is, of course, deeply regrettable. However, I have the reassuring announcement that it is not considered that there should be uncertainty about public health.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140236	Ulla Tørnæs, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140237	But listen to me, Minister: it is under all criticism. It is under all criticism of up to a quarter of the sum of dead minks that have had to be dealt with in the wake of the government's illegal decision that all minks should be killed in a hurry. There is up to a quarter which the Minister cannot explain where is, and that is, given that public health, which we are all concerned with, is of course important. But we also know that along the way, mink has been lost on the roads. We know that out where the mass graves have been established, the minks pop out of the ground, and no one in the local area can know whether it is dangerous or not. There are 8 000 tonnes, up to a quarter of the dead minks, which the Minister cannot explain where they are. Now we have just talked about the mink mass graves, and of course it makes a difference whether there are 5,000 tonnes of dead mink in a mass grave, or whether there are 10,000 tonnes of dead mink, all the time that at least one of the mass graves is established too close to a bathing water lake.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140356	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140357	Now I think one of the points by asking these questions in the Chamber is that we are also listening to each other, and I actually gave the answer that yes, it is problematic and also regrettable that not everyone can be explained, but it is not 8 000 tonnes that cannot be explained. There is a lot that is on frost, which was healthy mink, and which now needs to be burned under safe conditions. So we have been able to identify some of it. It's still not satisfactory, it's still not good enough. But I would like to stress that it would have been far more difficult, far more difficult, in terms of public health, not to do anything with the mink. Then there would have been mutations, virus infection, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140437	Thank you. Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140438	Now I would just like to say to the Minister that I am addressing the figures that the Minister himself gave, partly during a technical review last week and partly during a consultation last week, which I also asked the Minister clearly and clearly, and the Minister confirmed that yes, there are 8,000 tonnes of mink which he cannot explain. It is under all criticism, and it does not harmonize with my perception of what to do to ensure security of the Danes' public health. So it's under all criticism, no matter how you turn it and turn it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140512	Then it's the minister to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140517	Well, I'm also emphasising how critical it is. I'm not at all satisfied with this. It is deeply unacceptable that this should be the case. What I referred to was that now, as a result of the questioner's question, we have checked these things, and it turns out that there are some of the minks that could not be explained, which lie on frost and are waiting to be burned. That is why I would just like to stress that it is not the 8 000 tonnes, but the fewer because some are on frost. It is still doubtful and problematic and regrettable that there is no more control, of course it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140551	Then it is co-questioner Mrs Anni Matthiesen, 1 minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140554	Thank you. We are really just trying to help the Minister to get the overview, because I think that it has characterised some of what we have seen throughout the whole process around the minks that nobody has had the overview. Now the minister says today that okay, we found some mink, and they are then on frost and must be burned later. Can the Minister tell us today how many minks you don't know, how many are on frost and how many tons of these dead minks you don't know yet?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140628	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140629	I can easily understand the frustration that is also with the questioner, because when you hear about these figures, you think that it can really be right and there is no more control. I feel the same way myself. It's a sign that you slowly put this puzzle down. I would like to stress that these things have been done in the interests of public health and in order to avoid the spread of infection. The figures I have today are so that you have at least 300 tonnes of unclaimed mink, which is on frost, and then there should be 4,700 tonnes of mink that are not accounted for. But I'd like to translate these figures in writing, so we're quite sure what's right, because new numbers are coming up on an ongoing basis. It is an expression of the fact that you have been hasty to act on this, and then there have been some that you haven't quite figured out, and that's what you're getting mapped out, and hopefully you'll get the full overview at the end. I understand that this is not satisfactory, but that is what I have to work on right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140733	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140734	In fact, when the Minister replies as he does now, I think it is amazing that the Minister could say in the past that there are no problems with public health. Because right now the minister has to find 4,700 tonnes of mink, but in reality they may have been buried in a place which may cause problems in relation to public health. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140758	The big problem with public health would be if these mink were still alive with the possibility of infection. When they are knocked down and if they are buried, there should be no great risk of infection. That is why we have acted as we have done, in other words to avoid the risk of infection. However, I fully recognise that taking as violent steps as he has done here and then not having a better overview is, of course, not satisfactory.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140826	Then it is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs with her final question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140828	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister can guarantee the citizens living near the mink mass graves that they are now, I understand, not 8,000 tonnes mink, which the Minister cannot explain, but fortunately only 4,700 tonnes mink, which has disappeared, are not in the mink mass graves?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140854	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140855	One of the major problems is that we're probably looking into the fact that there's more mink in these graves than first lit. At least I can't rule that out. It also makes me very worried and very angry about all this. That's why I've asked for action to be taken in relation to this so we can handle it. There I am awaiting the decision-making basis that comes from the Danish Food Authority, and then we would very much like to deal with this in broad terms in the Danish Parliament. I am trying to solve a task with a problem that arose before I came into office as Minister and I am trying to do it as best I can.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140933	The question is over. We will continue with questions to the Minister, but we will switch it around: now it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen who is the main questioner, and the questioner is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140942	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140944	Thank you for that, President. How will the Minister fulfil his own desire to dig up the mink that has been killed so that the surrounding environment is not contaminated as a result of the government's decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140954	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209140955	Let me start by emphasising that what I have been informed so far and I understand the scepticism about what is being told here is that, even if these minks have been buried, there should be no risk of contamination, nor should there be any risk of pollution. You are present on the area and take measurements on a continuous basis to avoid contamination and risk of infection. Having said that, I fully understand the many citizens who find it shameful with mink buried and want them removed. That's why I've told you that we're putting the FDA in the process of finding solutions to how we can handle these minks. Can we have them removed? Can we have them dug up? Can we have them burned? That is what we are awaiting a decision on, and when we have that basis of decision, we will invite widely in the Folketing to an agreement on what we do in the future to deal with them. But health and pollution, there should be no risk with those graves at this time. That's what I've been told.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209141106	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209141107	Thank you for your answer. After all, there are many outstanding questions. Now we can hear, also on the previous question, that you haven't yet gotten an overview of how many of these minks have been buried in these 4,900 tonnes, where are they? This is one of the things the Minister has yet to gain an overview of. And yes, then we could understand that within a few days the Minister expects to get a paper on how to handle these buried minks. Does the Minister personally take the view that these minks should be dug up?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209141143	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209141144	Yes, I have emphasized that several times. I think that would be the most reassuring thing. That is also what I understand the local mayors want and many citizens want it to be the solution. So we are working on that, and that is part of the basis for the decision that will be taken. It is part of history that the authorities consider that there is no risk of pollution and that there is no risk of infection, even if they are buried in the way they are now. But now we have to look at what the basis of the decision is and then we have to take a position from there. And there will be wide invitations for conversations about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209141219	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209141220	I would really like to ask the Minister whether he can guarantee to the citizens concerned who are waiting for answers as to when these minks will be dug up and who may wish to see Christmas before Christmas that, as it is now, there is neither a danger to their drinking water nor, for that matter, the lake of bathing which is close to one of the mink graves. Is this something with which the Minister can reassure the citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209141249	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209141249-2	I have been worried about the drinking water and the lake nearby. I don't think it's supposed to be an official lake, but that's why it's still problematic. There I have been informed that there should be no risk of contamination and that there should be no risk of infection. I am, of course, listening to it when the authorities say it, but I think I feel a bit like the questioner, namely that there is still something insecure about this. That is also how I understand many citizens and mayors. That is why I have said that we need to deal with it better, and that is what we are looking into now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209141325	Then it's the co-questioner. Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209141326	Thank you. I just want to quietly draw the Minister's attention to something. The minister says you do measurements out there, too. Well, the hand on the heart is that if you see something in the readings, it's too late. That is why I think it is such a rather strange remark to make in this context. Now we have discussed the basis of the decision, and I understand that the Minister is waiting for it to be made available and that it will do so in a few days' time. Then I would just like to ask the Minister whether the Minister in this Chamber today can give a guarantee that the wish of the Minister, which the Minister shares with the citizens of the local areas, that the minks should be dug up is not an economic question, that is to say, to clean up after the government here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209141419	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209141420	To begin with, it is pointless to take measurements because nothing can be done, because it is too late, I would say that it is simply wrong. This was also apparent from the technical review that was here the other day. You take measurements, because if there is a trend towards pollution, which is not there but if there is a tendency to do so, you have the opportunity to make preventive measures. You can drain, you can do other things, as was also explained during the technical review. Therefore, it makes good sense to measure continuously, because we only want to look after our groundwater and avoid pollution and keep an eye on nothing happening. There are guards out there, too. It's shielded off so there's no infection, etc. So we're on it. As far as the solution and the basis for decision are concerned, we are waiting for what the Danish Food and Agriculture Authority will come up with, including in terms of price. We will call the parties to take that discussion, but we have the great wish that this be handled and that it be resolved.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209141529	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209141530	In my view, it is clearly the responsibility of the government both to find funding and also to ensure that it is cleared up. I have asked the Minister what the operation of the mink mass graves is on a daily basis, and the Minister has done so, as with the 8,000 tons mink that had disappeared. That is why I would just like the Minister in the Danish Parliament today to issue a guarantee and a guarantee that it will not be a matter of economics to clean up after the government. Because, of course, the government is taking on the task, all the time that it is also the Minister's warmest wish, and preferably here before Christmas, that the minks be dug up so it will not be an economic question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209141609	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209141610	We are concerned about the security of our citizens. We are concerned with public health. That is also why the government took on the responsibility for which we now hear a lot of criticism, that is to say to take the decision to knock down these minks, because otherwise we looked into a situation where the infection could be more severe, where there could be mutation and where there could be a prospect of a possible vaccine not working. So we take responsibility. In connection with the disposal of these minks, some mistakes have been made. I regret that. It was something that happened before my time. We're taking care of it, and we're gonna solve it together with the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209141650	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen for her last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209141651	I would like to start by saying to the Minister that the Left is also concerned about public health. But I would like to ask the Minister in conclusion once again: can it be an economic question which means that the Minister chooses to say that the minks should not be dug up, or will the Minister continue to insist that the minister actually wants these minks to be dug up himself, regardless of what the price will be?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209141720	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209141720-2	I have told you quite openly that I would prefer to see these minks removed. Now I've asked the FDA to lay out a basis for decision. There you have to make a decision that looks at the whole of it. My wish is to dig up these minks and have them removed, but of course it has to be seen in a whole, in terms of what is possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209141742	The question is over. Thank you to the Minister and thank you to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs and Mrs Anni Matthiesen. We move on to the next question, which is to the Minister for Children and Education, asked by Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209141755	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209141759	Thank you. Does the Minister think that the Mohammed drawings should be included in the teaching?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209141805	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209141806	I believe that a minister of education should stay out of this. I have actually been a little surprised to have this question put by Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, because for many of my early years in the Danish Parliament Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard spent a great deal of time fighting against taste judgment, and I also know Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard as a person who is very concerned about Danish traditions. Right here my statement rests on a long tradition in the Danish primary school that it is not described what is to be taught. This means that there is not a shell compared to what you teach in the Danish primary school. There is a long tradition of this, and it is a tradition that we pay high regard to school policy, and therefore it is also a tradition that I do not want to break with. And I'm actually a little puzzled if what I have to understand from this question is that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, with a stroke of pen, is going to end a long tradition in the Danish primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209141907	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209141908	Thank you. This is very funny, and since the Minister himself is drawing up the past a little, I must say many times that I have known the Minister in a different way in the past, namely as someone who certainly did not conceal his views. So I guess we can do a little ping-ponging about that. I just think the Mohammed drawings are so important in relation to the Muhammad crisis that rolled over the country 15 years ago. And the assassination of the French teacher, who showed some Mohammed drawings in teaching, I just think shows how topical that debate is still, and this is about freedom of speech. It is not a matter of taste judgment, it is a question of freedom of expression and, unfortunately, we have not come this far in the 15 years, because people are still being threatened and murdered to show some drawings. For me, it is important that we, as politicians, put forward our positions and, in particular, a minister in a particular area, must express his opinion on a particular matter. There is no doubt that teachers are free of method. I will not dispute that at all. So it is the easy solution for the Minister to cover himself in that if the Minister presents his own position, it can be seen as an instruction. That is not the point at all. My question is not about the freedom of method for teachers. My question is about the Minister's attitude and only attitude to some drawings as part of the teaching. Does the Minister think that the drawings should be shown or not? And putting forward your position as a politician cannot be seen as an instruction. It's for me to see some politicians' nonsense.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142036	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142037	What I hear Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard say is that this is so important that I fully agree with the comments that fall, about the seriousness of the situation we are facing, not least with the murder of the French teacher. So I totally agree with the seriousness of that. However, given that it is so important that it should be September, that it is also so important that what is just with the Danish primary school tradition, is that we do not have a tradition of what is going to happen, that is, that World War II and the terrible Jewish persecutions that have been going on for hundreds of years and, for that matter, World War I and the Vietnam War, that is, things that have profoundly affected the Western world, are not things that we say should be changed about.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142128	Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142129	I haven't said anything at any time. The Minister cannot make any reference to this at all. For the Minister says that teachers should at least have heard a lot about this recently. So don't worry, Minister. What I really just want is to hear the Minister's opinion on this. That is what this is all about. That is a political position. We are politicians in here, and so is the minister, although the minister is now a minister. So I urge the Minister once again to reply to what I actually asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142211	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142214	I am exactly a politician, and I do not want us to start having to influence teachers to teach one thing or the other. Teachers thus enjoy freedom of education and are subject to the framework laid down by the school board and can decide from day to day which elements are included in the teaching. There is a long Danish tradition for this, for which I believe that the Danish People's Party and, in this case, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard should treasure something higher than is the case in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142239	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard for her last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142240	The minister deliberately misunderstands me. I can't help but understand that these drawings might offend somebody. We know that, and we've seen it over the years. But then there's so much that can offend us. We must also develop. Should we not show pictures of the Holocaust and the horrors of Nazism? What about the communist hammer and seal? It can violate a great deal. Actually, I may be offending a great deal, but I still think you should teach it. What about the battle of 1864? There are probably some South Jutland descendants who have special feelings about it. There is so much going on in our history that one must of course learn in, for example, a subject such as social science. But again, I don't want to touch the freedom of method. What I just want is to hear the Minister's opinion on this. That's what I'm asking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142322	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142323	I think I am incredibly square, and I also usually get scolded mostly for being too square, but now I try to say it even more square: I want to be a great supporter of the fact that we in Denmark do not have the curriculum in the Danish primary school, so I don't want to interfere with what you teach. Do I think it is natural to teach things about freedom of expression, by the way, including the drawing crisis? Yes, of course. Do I think it's natural to teach things about World War II? Yes, of course. Do I think it's natural to teach Jewish hatred? Yes, of course. But will I say that this is something we should do or have to do, or that as a minister I should stand and say what the teachers should use of materials in this regard? No way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142404	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you to the Minister for Children and Education. Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Then we move on to questions to the Minister for Defence (pm. No. S 544) by Mr Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142416	Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth for reading the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142419	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142437	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142438	I must, sir. Marcus Knuth, repeat that I consider it irresponsible to undermine the public's confidence in defence by touring around with an incorrect interpretation of the facts about defence support for the FDA's mink effort. As I have previously explained and repeated in this Chamber, no one has killed any soldiers mink. The defense has not conducted any operation mink killing. The defense has supported a civilian authority, the FDA, who requested support. The defence has supported the FDA's efforts since 8 October, and this has been done on the basis of section 7 of the Defence Act. There is the answer repeatedly to it, and it is stated that the defence is entitled to support the Danish Food and Agriculture Authority in section 7 of the Defence Act. I would also like to repeat that the defense has not killed mink.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142528	Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142529	I had hoped to be able to withdraw this question after we had just had consultations for 1 hour, when we have asked the Minister again and again: who gave the order, and why did the Minister not withdraw the Danish soldiers when it was found that the PM's order was illegal? We still can't get answers. The minister says over and over again § 7, § 7. Is it true that it is the Minister who has to contact another minister and then issue an order and has the Minister issued that order?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142608	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142609	It is not true that the defense has acted illegally. There's been a legal basis for all of the defense's tasks. And it's not true that an order has to be given before the defense can perform this type of task. As I have also answered both in consultation and to questions in this Chamber, it is the case that the Danish Food and Agriculture Authority can ask the defence for support. The FDA has done that. The defence and thus the top of the defence, the defence management and the chief of defense judge whether it is within the framework of Section 7 of the Defence Act. The Defense has done that. They have no doubt that it is fully applicable. When this case came up, of course, I have been very interested in whether it is adequate and yes, it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142652	Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142653	The Minister is not answering my question. I'm asking if the Minister has issued an order. It's a very, very simple question. After all, there are not 350 soldiers who simply drive to Jutland without an order being issued, and according to the paragraph to which the Minister constantly refers, namely section 7 of the Defence Act, the Minister must be in charge. So now I ask very simply 'yes' or 'no': Has the Minister issued an order?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142715	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142716	It is of course no use that the questioner just wants the answer that the questioner himself would like. Answers must be correct, and these are the answers I give. There's a legal basis, and I don't want an order given by me in this context. I don't want an order from the Secretary of Defense to do this type of job. What is also applicable here is that nothing illegal has been done. And that is the premise that the questioner continues to subscribe to, namely that tasks should have been carried out and that the defence should have done something that is not legal. That is not the case. There's a full legal basis. So it is the top of the defence that has operational responsibility and thus sends soldiers out, and that happens wherever it is in the world. But it is clear that I have been interested in whether there was a legal basis, and that is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142804	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142806	Thank you. I simply cannot understand why the Minister refuses to answer my question. It is a very simple yes-no question. So now I'm trying a different angle. Among other things, the police have... used these so-called actioncards. The police themselves have admitted that they had no legal basis. Has anyone from the defense called on the basis of the police's action cards?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142826	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142827	No, the defense hasn't done anything illegal. The defence has had a legal basis for everything, and what I can relate to is what the defense has done, namely the tasks from which the defence has acted, and that is, in this case, the soldier's card. I have answered all these questions over and over again, both in writing and orally on several occasions, and it sounds to me frankly as if the questioner is looking for an answer which is not an answer I can give because it will not be right. When I answer here in Parliament and in consultation, it is of course under ministerial responsibility. This means that I am giving the right answers and not the answers that the questioner would like.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142906	Thank you. The question has been answered. I say thank you to the Secretary of Defense and to Mr. Simpson. Marcus Knuth. The next question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, asked by Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party. The question is no. S 534.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142948	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209142950	What is the Minister's view that a majority of the Environment, Plan and Rural Committee in Slagelse Municipality has voted in favour of a new local plan allowing a permanent Muslim cultural centre with a mosque owned by the Danish Turkish Islamic Foundation, which creates insecurity and nervousness among neighbours and the city's citizens, and what is the Minister's view that the Social Democracy has voted in favour of the Muslim Cultural Centre in the committee?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209143019	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209143020	Thank you for the question. I do not know the circumstances of the particular case in Slagelse, to which the questioner refers, and I will therefore not comment on the decision of a municipal council or go into the details of the matter. However, I would like to make some general observations which the question raises. First of all, of course, the obvious: As a result of the Constitution, we have freedom of religion in Denmark, and there is therefore nothing to prevent Buddhists from setting up a temple or Muslims to set up a cultural centre or a mosque in an existing building, provided of course the legislation is complied with. Secondly, I would say that today there are almost 300 000 immigrants and descendants of immigrants in Denmark who originate in countries where the majority of the population professes Islam. Many of them are Danish citizens today, and they are here now and are our neighbours and acquaintances, but it is clear that the fact that we in Denmark have freedom of religion does not mean, of course, that under the guise of it we should be able to undermine democracy and the rule of the people in Denmark. We are therefore very concerned about getting rid of the extreme forces that seek to oppose democracy or to suppress the freedom of other people. The government has among other things: A bill was tabled to counteract anti-democratic donations. It could, for example, be done. be to mosques. And soon we will be putting forward a legislative proposal to strengthen the fight against negative social control, and it could also have consequences for imams if they play a negative role in this. The fight for democracy does not end here. Of course, we must constantly insist on defending our values of freedom. As a government, we have presented the first steps, but we are fully aware that this cannot be the end. I believe that we are at the beginning of a fight for democracy and not at the end of that fight.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209143220	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209143221	The people of the Danish People's Party in Slagelse have been very concerned about this matter; I share their concern, and I am also concerned about the attitude of the Social Democrats in this matter. Why is it that we have a party that claims to be strict on immigration policy and firm on integration policy, when their local representatives at the same time vote in favour of galloping Islamisation, among other things. Slagelse? I don't think that's connected at all. I also find it worrying that there is room for a mosque, which belongs to this Turkish state network of mosques outside and within Turkey, which has anti-freedom attitudes. For example: they issued a fatwa, i.e. a statement against the Muslim drawings recently, when we had the very tragic case of the French high school teacher who was killed because of the Mohammed drawings. It seems strange that the Social Democracy at local level wants to support such an institution by giving it better access in Denmark. We in the Danish People's Party think this is wrong. And it's possible to regulate this by law. So what the Minister said earlier about the fact that you cannot regulate is not right; you can actually regulate it via local plans, and we in the Danish People's Party have already called on the Minister to take action and do something about that. Because you can actually say whether you think there should be room for such institutions or not. It is regulated through local plans, and that is what has been voted on in the city council. And there, at national level, a national local plan should be drawn up for the whole of Denmark so that this does not happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209143435	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209143436	I think it was the previous government that wrote in its government base that Denmark is a Christian country. This gave rise to a little debate, but I thought it was a banality to observe. It's just looking at every history book. But it is also a banality to see that today we have a fairly large minority of Muslims. Of course, they have freedom of religion, and they must have the opportunity to practice it. What I am saying in my speech is that it must be possible to do so within the framework of democracy. I fully understand that we have not finished regulating this area yet and that we have probably been too naive as well. One of the discussions that I think is quite obvious is the possibility for the municipalities to play a part in influencing where, for example. a mosque building takes place. We also said in that consultation that it is not certain that we are fully in place with that • we recognise that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209143520	Thank you. Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209143521	There is freedom of religion in Denmark, and Denmark is a Christian country. Muslims must of course be allowed to maintain their faith in Allah, and they must also be allowed to have mosques. But no one says there has to be a mosque on every corner of the street. And the number of mosques and the visibility and dominance and the noise from them are very much something that we can control and something that we need to control. And it is an expression of Islamisation if we give room to more and more such mosques, and especially of the kind that comes with such anti-freedom messages. And then I am in doubt: is social democracy really willing to fight against Islamism, or is it just indifferent?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209143607	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209143608	I believe that, in the consultation that the Minister for Industry and I took part in, we also said very clearly that, of course, a municipal council must be able to influence the development of the local community. This is usually done through the law of plans, and I think it is a perfectly natural part of the discussion that you also help influence where, for example, there are. I'm gonna put a mosque down. I know that in Holbæk, I think it was, it was not terribly interested that it was very close to a exposed residential area. I think that makes sense immediately. It is not certain that today's law of planning gives the municipalities the instruments they need; we fully agree with that. It is just not necessarily in the law of plans that it needs to be regulated in the future either. But we understand that there is a discussion here, and when we see these local discussions all the time, it is also an indication that national legislation may not be where it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209143655	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209143656	I think that is quite correct: national legislation is clearly not where it should be. Because we need to regulate this at national level. It cannot be that it is the power of each city council to ensure whether an area is Islamised or not. I am therefore very, very disappointed that the Minister has not spoken to his party comrades in Slagelse and has made them resist until we can adopt some national legislation which will make it possible to put an end to this kind of Islamisation, just as there are many other forms of Islamisation which, of course, need to be stopped.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209143733	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209143734	Now the municipality of Slagelse is a municipality that has received immigration from the Middle East over recent decades, not only in Slagelse city, but also in Korsør, where we all know about the situation at Motalavej. And when there are many Muslims who want to practice their religion, if they can find funding for it, then I think it is perfectly natural that they also have the possibility of establishing a mosque. What is our task is to ensure that the mosque does not become an instrument of foreign policy interests in Denmark from other states, that it does not undermine democracy and, on the contrary, that it becomes a living, active and integral part of the community in which they are, and does not turn its back on the local community.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209143813	Thank you. The question has been answered and we thank Mrs Krarup. We will continue with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and this time it is Mr. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party asking questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209143822	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209143825	Does the Minister recognise that there is a major challenge for security in Denmark and enforcement of the rules at the Danish exit centres when one has been forced to take out of service a supporting IT system that ensures compliance with them?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209143838	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by stating that there is continued control of foreigners in both Kærshovedgård and Soulsmark. These foreigners are still subject to the obligations we have written in the legislation, and the IT system that has been discussed continues to be used in registering whether foreigners are staying in the centres and settling their reporting obligations. At the same time, of course, I take seriously the decision of the Attorney General not to use data from the SALTO system in criminal proceedings. From this week, therefore, there will be a manual registration of the entry and exit of foreigners from Kærshovedgård and Soulsmark and of their reporting obligations at the centres, which will supplement the electronic records. This is what we are doing to ensure that there is confidence in the data on which criminal proceedings are based on breach of the control obligations. With the manual control we are therefore maintaining control of foreigners, and it is my expectation that with the manual supplement we can once again begin to report the offences committed by the alien and that criminal proceedings concerning new offences can be dealt with in the courts. At the same time, we have decided as soon as possible to launch an external and impartial study of this IT system and its practical application, which I expect will be completed in the next quarter. When the outcome of the investigation is available, it must be assessed what action can be taken to restore the public prosecutor's confidence in the system. In the first place, we ensure that the rules of residence, notification and reporting will be enforced to the same extent as before, i.e. by introducing this additional manual control at Kærshovedgård in Midtjylland and Sjælsmark in Nordsjælland. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144017	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144018	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister for the information we received the other day. We were really happy about that, but at the same time I think that there are many people, not least in the Ikast-Brande area who are wondering why, at this stage or several days ago, when it was discovered that there were problems with the legal part of the IT system, manual control has not been put in place? I mean, there are police out there at these exit centres, and every day that goes by, you increase the risk of increased insecurity in the local area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144049	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144051	It is true that on 2 December I informed the Danish Parliament that there were these challenges and subsequently I was informed that there were a couple of detainees who have been released because they have been arrested on the basis of this information. And neither are we in a situation these days when we have raised new charges. We can't do that until we get the manual control on the field, and it's actually going to be this week I think they're gonna start tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144120	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144122	But there is still no answer as to why it was not inserted immediately. You know, you got cops out there, like... can be inserted when problems arise. And you can safely say that this is a problem, so why didn't manual control get started right away when you figured out these challenges?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144138	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144139	It has been my wish that this should start as soon as possible, and we have been in dialogue with temporary agency agencies to put people forward, because it does not have to be people with police competence who have to carry out this manual control. But there is something safety about it, and then you have to explain to people what is the legal basis for this control. They also come out in some dialogues with some foreigners, some exiles, in some slightly special situations, and there is very good that they have just had a day or two to understand what it is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144211	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144212	Now the Minister says that some have been released on the basis of the legal issues. Is there a risk that some of those who have already been convicted and served their sentence for breaking these reporting obligations, etc., will have their sentence annulled and may even be compensated for being punished? Because then, to put it bluntly, we would be very ridiculous in our own country.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144235	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144237	I can only declare myself to be 110%. I agree, and I cannot reject that risk. Because right now, my main focus is to get people into the gate with a block and a pen to cross off whether they're staying at the mall and that they're joining the mall. The next step is so that what I also announced in this speech is that we are going to initiate an externally independent investigation. I hope, of course, that it will say that everything is exactly as it should be. And then, in the intervening period, in the few days when there has been no manual check at the door, we will also have the opportunity, on the basis of that data, to be able to raise criminal proceedings. Of course it's my dream, but it's by no means something I can guarantee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144319	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and to Mr. Marcus Knuth. Then we move on to the next question, which is Question No. S 521 to the Minister for the Environment, submitted by Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144334	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144336	Thank you for that, President. The question is: does the Minister think that it is safe to expose large grassers in areas where users of the upcoming Fussingø National Park move when more media can report that there are massive problems with cows attacking guests in the Mountains of the Mol National Park, and what initiatives will the Minister take to prevent similar situations from occurring?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144401	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144402	Thank you for the question. With the Finance Act for next year we have secured a historic boost to nature, and the forerunner of this was an agreement this summer between the government, Radical Left, SF, Enhedslisten and the Alternative on the upcoming National Parks in Gribskov and Fussingø, where fences will be set up and these great grassers will be exposed. The release of the large grassers into a larger coherent natural area, where nature is given space and opportunity to unfold on natural grounds, is an important and good means of strengthening nature and biodiversity in Denmark. At the same time, animals must also contribute to providing new and more exciting natural experiences for all of us. The Danish Nature Agency has long and good experience in balancing outdoor life in large fenced areas with grazing animals, for example. Bisonskoven on Bornholm, the deer in Jægersborg Dyrehave and wild horses on Langeland, and fortunately, the board only has knowledge of very few accidents involving injuries caused by grazing animals on the board's lands in recent years. In the national parks there must be room for both nature and outdoor life; this is very important. So we will do a great deal to provide information on how best to travel in the areas, and we will also have to look at how to organise the management of the areas that reduce the risk of accidents with the animals at risk. I have already been in dialogue with a number of open-air organisations on precisely outdoor life in fenced-in areas, and we will also continue this dialogue, both centrally and locally, in the work we are now doing, with a view, of course, to making it safe and safe to travel in the areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144539	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144540	Thank you. I think everyone agrees that it is a good idea to have national parks with the emphasis that we simply have as much nature as possible. The previous government also made national parks, which is why it is only a good thing. But where the discussion is, how to ensure that the many, many users who are of among others. the forest at Fussingø today, still away may also be there, so that it will not be a hundred percent on the animals' premises, but that there will also be a balance. After all, the Minister mentions that there is very little knowledge of people who get hurt. In Britain, not far from here, there has been a really large study of this area, and since 2000, 18 people have actually died by entering these demarcated areas where they have walked on hiking trails and have been attacked by wild animals. So it's not something that's just invented for the occasion and is a thoughtful problem. This is a real problem, not least in view of the fact that we have not actually had these national parks before as a concept. We have only had national parks before, and that is why it is also a new thing that is starting to come up. So the fear is real, and not least in relation to the fact that in Fussingø there is a user group of around 900 people with whom I have also been in dialogue, just as the Minister has also been in dialogue with them. You mention this as a real problem, and that is why I think it is important that we go in and see whether these animals should perhaps be confined to a part of the area or what they should be. Does the Minister not share the fears that there are among other things. Is it on the basis of British experience?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144705	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144706	First of all, I would like to welcome the fact that the rapporteur also believes that there is a need and that we need to do something more for nature in Denmark, because it is the green mandate that the Danes have also given that we therefore need to reverse the development in nature where we can see that it goes back year after year. And some of what the scientists are pointing to is that we have to have some of these big grassers come out and root in the forest floor, so they get a lot of processes going. It provides room for a more varied wildlife, for mushrooms, for plants to simply get better biodiversity. That's exactly why we're doing it. But, of course, we must do so in a good, inclusive and dialogue-based way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144746	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144746-2	And that's great. So can we get a concrete commitment today from the Minister that the very large user group from Fussingø, with over 900 members, is already being involved quite a lot, in terms of how and how it is being done, so that there can be a balance between where these big animals are going and where it is that people can go so that it does not endanger the many users of the forest at Fussingø today?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144811	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144812	I would be sorry to speak up the problem, because now I also read out what the Danish Nature Agency's experiences are actually here. But it is clear: Many of us Danes do not have experience with large animals that go out in nature, because they have been away from the Danish nature for a very many years, and therefore, of course, we need to talk about, and it is also one of the things I have talked to the outdoor organisations about how we can ensure some rules of conduct that are understandable. Welcome; we want you to come out and experience our amazing, exciting Danish nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144847	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144847-2	Well, I'm sorry I can't get a commitment about it. I have to admit, I actually thought so. When the Minister himself has been in dialogue with Fussingø user groups and can see that it is actually true, very many people they represent, I would have thought it was very easy for the Minister to just say: Well, of course I want to involve them too, namely the users of the forest at Fussingø, so that we ensure the natural balance so that we both get nature, both the animals, but that we certainly also get the users. So I will try again, perhaps a little naive and optimistic: can the Minister not see that it is important that the Minister also include these over 900 members?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144922	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209144923	Unfortunately, we are now limited by extremely short speaking time in this Chamber, because I could talk about this at a very long time. One of the things that is crucial to me is the involvement, also locally, that it is well locally anchored and that there is a good process about it. So what we have decided is that there are, on the one hand, two national steering groups, one too untouched forest and one for natural parks, and, on the other hand, in the specific areas there is also a project group which involves all the local voices, which are also so important in this. I myself was at a meeting as late as Monday with a number of those who are active from those who drive mountain bikes, to the dog walkers and to the nature lovers so that we get all the votes represented. So, of course, they have to be involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209145003	Thank you. It is fortunate that we will actually have the opportunity to discuss this a little more, because the first question has now been answered, but the next question is also to the Minister for the Environment and has also been asked by Mr Gundelach. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209145016	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209145018	Thank you. The question is this: does the Minister intend that in the preparation of the Fussingø Natural Park, the current access to the area of current users who travel on two wheels, two legs and four legs on a daily basis will be taken into account and maintained?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209145033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209145034	Thank you for the question. The upcoming national parks in Gribskov and Fussingø will help to strengthen nature and biodiversity, as we just talked about, and at the same time they will provide new, exciting outdoor opportunities. So the fence must keep the animals in, but not keep people out, on the contrary. I think that is very important to stress today, because of course I have also listened to the debate that is going on. The political agreement is based on the idea that these outer fences will be set up and that large grassers will also be exposed, but no decision has been taken at this stage as to where the fence should stand and what animals should be put out, because it must be done in a process with both the national groups, but also in cooperation with local associations, citizens and interest groups. Early in the process, I have invited both virtual information meetings and forest migrations, where local citizens and citizens' groups have been given the opportunity to provide input to the work, and now the structured work has also started, and I myself had the opportunity to meet on Monday with a number of those who are active in all kinds of open-air modes at Fussingø. In addition, a scientific working group has been set up with researchers and experts, a stakeholder working group with representatives from national organisations representing outdoor life, nature protection and business interests, and then the local project groups with representatives from local actors. In relation to the whole open-air area, it is very, very important to me that you should of course be able to have a good leisure life, including where we should have natural parks, and therefore, as I said, there is also a need to emphasise it today. So for me it's a boat-and; it's not a either-or. Of course, there must be access and open air. Exactly how to do it in a good way is what you are discussing now also locally in the project groups that are set up, so there is room for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209145227	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209145228	Thank you for your answer. Just as the minister has been out there, I have also been out there watching the area. There is no doubt that for example. a group such as the mountain bikers, who have spent a lot of thousands of kroner on creating a track, which is also used at large assemblies and the like, is very nervous that if you can't get unhindered access to it, it's wasted money. The same is true of the many people riding horses in the area. They are also worried that it will be possible because of contact with wild animals etc. And as the Minister himself saw, it is also the case that if these hiking trails are not maintained in some form, it is really, really difficult for people, including those with children, to go out in nature, i.e. if there is no way to go in nature. Therefore, like many other things in life, it is a matter of finding the right balance. Therefore, the question again is whether this is how I interpreted the previous question, that I was given half an undertaking that these 900 users can come on board in a completely different way than just through this local group, so as to also ensure that users get a real voice and a real sense of being heard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209145342	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209145343	I would be sorry to interpret this as a half commitment, because I said very, very clearly that it is something that is very close to my heart that one can, of course, speak out. That is why I myself visited on Monday, when I had the opportunity to speak to a number of the votes in the debate. I understand that you have many questions and that you ask: what is this about nature parks for something? What does that have to do with anything? However, we cannot answer all the questions yet, because the whole process is under way. And the good thing about having a process is that there isn't a finished plan, but that you just have the opportunity to bid in with what you really want it to be. As I said, I have also had meetings with the large open-air organisations at national level, because I only want it to be good both for nature and for open-air life.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209145423	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209145424	However, I am glad that we can then interpret this as a complete commitment to ensuring that the user group Fussingø is involved in the whole process. I'm glad. In fact, there has been a concrete proposal from some of the people who are active in the Fussingø user group that, instead of having cows graze freely, it is an animal that we know has attacked others, not least if the people who are travelling out there have a dog that may replace them with sheep and goats, which are markedly different animals that are not as aggressive and so on. Is this also something that the Minister could be open to?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209145458	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209145459	Exactly which animals are to be exposed has not yet been decided. But it is clear that when large grassers are said, it is one of them. some of these wild horses or cattle that are heavy and can spark up some biodiversity that is being thought of. But it hasn't been decided what kind of animals they are. What we need to look at is what specific areas we are talking about. What is really needed by animal pressure? What animal breeds will be good for the biodiversity we want to get hold of and move forward? I also think that it helps with dialogue, because it is clear that there may well be a concern, and that must be addressed, and this can often be done with information and with the opportunity to engage in dialogue with one another.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209145537	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209145538	Information is, of course, good, but not good enough. After all, this is also about involvement. It is also a question of ensuring that any problems that could arise are resolved before they become a problem. Among other things, it could. I would like to make it clear to the House that this is a matter for the Commission and that it is a matter for the Member States to ensure that there are animals which are at least not dangerous or which are not seen as dangerous. I would be very, very sorry if we were to find ourselves in a situation where suddenly there are many users of Fussingøskov who dare not get into the woods because they are simply insecure about the situation. In my view, the whole idea of natural parks will also disappear. Is the Minister not also concerned that this could happen and that it is therefore important that we ensure that everyone is involved in all processes?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209145616	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209145617	The one thing I'm worried about is that we're in the middle of a natural crisis. That's one. The second thing I am concerned about is that today we have children and young people who are half as much out in the wild as their grandparents. So we need both to take better care of nature, but also to ensure that as Danes we have good access to nature, that we are invited into nature and know our nature better. I also believe that the processes we get around the national parks throughout Denmark with local involvement can also help to show what a fantastic nature we have just outside our front door, which we would like to have communicated, where there should be paths and where there should be access. But, of course, you also have to look at how we can ensure that there is a good balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209145657	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for the Environment and to Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen. The next question is to the Minister for Culture, and that is what Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209145709	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209145712	Thank you for that, President. Is the government ready to hold hands during the People's Meeting and the infrastructure behind it until we are on the other side of the pandemic, as fewer players, organisations and companies have applied for participation in the 2021 People's Meeting and, of course, it challenges the People's Meeting and not least the thoughts behind it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209145734	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209145735	Thank you very much for the question which I can fully follow and which I shall try to answer. As we are all too aware of, we are currently in a situation of far too high levels of infection and of highly worrying developments in the spread of infection. We are therefore looking into a time when the infection management will continue to be an intrusive part of our everyday lives, so that the infection does not run out of control, and we have extended the recommendations and introduced a number of measures in 38 particularly hard-hit municipalities. In this way you can start thinking even further forward, in relation to how this whole Corona crisis, the Covid-19 crisis, will affect our everyday life and business and culture, including the People's Summit, far into the past. Right now, it is unfortunately just too early to say quite clearly what the world is going to look like, both in the spring and in the summer. This is so important for the many players, for example. The people's meeting, which right now stands and does not really know what to do with planning their activities in the spring and summer. I have a huge understanding of this; it is a really difficult situation. I'm trying to get in touch with them all about how quickly we can get to that clarification and what sort of things we need to get in place. But basically we are waiting for the situation to unfold. Will these restrictions work? What will happen to the vaccine? There is no one, either in Denmark or in the world, who can say exactly where we are in May, June or July etc. There is just too much time for that. But it may also be very important to move on to that with what help you can then count on. Both I and the government really want to help. There, too, we listen to what the industry itself brings and are also fully prepared to explore different options. But, unfortunately, right now it is also too early to say anything about exactly what we can do, because it will also depend on the restrictions. So my appeal will be that very careful planning is being made. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209145947	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209145948	Thank you. The Centre for Regional and Tourism Research has measured and assessed on selected effects of the Danish People's Meeting on Bornholm in 2017. Overall, the People's Meeting generates an added value of over 41 million. kr. and an employment of 72 years' work. In addition, taxes, taxes and VAT of approx. 21 million kr. I am listening that the Minister is in favour of the people's meeting being there, of course. But it will not be the People's Assembly as we know it, Minister. It will be a very, very different People's Meeting. In other words, despite the fact that a concept has been developed with the traditional People's Meeting, we know that we are about to develop a new one. For it must be very virtual; it will be a completely different meeting of the people. See, it costs money, and that's where you need to know relatively quickly whether you have the government's gentle hand in your back, so that you can go into this new ball field and develop new concepts that make us still able to have a democratic debate. You can't wait for that, because people have to be paid, they have to pay rent, and the organization has to run. So when does the Minister expect to be able to give a positive commitment to the Association of Peoples' Meeting that one will of course hold hands during the People's Meeting and ensure that one will be able to take a pandemic in spite of a pandemic where one will wind up an alternative People's Meeting in the future, as we know it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209150112	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209150114	The situation described by the questioner is, after all, a great many cultural players. So the way we try to have the dialogue is, in fact, also by having a dialogue on how to do it in a new way across actors. So we're looking at whether it's a music festival, a city party, or the Folkes meeting... even though it's different events... how to do it if it's a big event with many people together. In the last agreement, we have tried to take this dialogue with a broad majority in the Danish Parliament to create a reboot team to qualify, and I hope that it will help to provide the answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209150154	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209150155	Yeah, but it sounds like a drug that could work. But the medicine only works, Minister, if the medicine comes here in good time. I mean, you can't wait for this because you have to pay. What if Denmark stopped paying the Minister's salary? How long would the Minister continue to go to work? How could the Minister exist? And it is exactly the same with the People's Assembly secretariat that they must also receive a salary; they must also be able to make sure that heat, water and rent are paid. The answers are about to fall. I would just like to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that the People's Assembly is, in fact, the greatest democratic event in addition to the electoral process itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209150240	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209150242	At the fixed costs we have from now on, I was just about to say, and also during this whole crisis, made aid packages, also with Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen's party, in relation to holding hands during the course of the day. What is at stake here is remembering that these events, at least as I see it, both live on money, but also live on simply winding up events, because that is where you have contact with all those you want to be involved in. And for that very reason I am also so careful to force a decision too quickly, for think now, if the answer was no and the time then, thanks to a vaccine or the ingenuity of others, it showed that a way to do it was found.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209150322	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209150322-2	I can't even imagine the answer being no. For the government, of which the Minister is a part, has just been able to find 900 million. kr. to Danmarks Radio. If there's anyone who might be less challenged by this pandemic, I guess it's Denmark's Radio. Then I assume that you have some money in your hands to make sure that there is a bag of money to keep the events floating that bind us together as a people who bind country and city together and also ensure that things happen in our rural areas. Otherwise, it is a very, very bad disposal of the government. And otherwise I assume that the government has some money in its backs just to make sure that everything we cared about before the pandemic, we can resume after the pandemic.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209150410	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209150410-2	That is absolutely correct. And we have committed both wisely, I think, but also cautiously with a quite large war fund that should help to bring Danish business and cultural life through also 2019 in relation to the consequences of the corona epidemic. On the other hand, I believe that both the author's party and my own, hopefully, can agree that is also the bearer of a democratic conversation, so I do not really understand the contradiction set up there. In relation to the People's Assembly, I think that there is a great deal to be done about how this can be done, because it also has a value. And otherwise we will look at how we can financially hold our hands under it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209150448	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you, sir. Peter Juel-Jensen. The next question is also to the Minister for Culture, and this has been asked by Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209150458	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209150500	Thank you for that, President. Can the Minister understand if some citizens wonder why the Minister's Christmas concert in Holmen's Church could easily be held when the Road Garden is subject to other and more far-reaching restrictions which make it impossible for them to hold their Christmas concerts?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209150516	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209150518	Thank you very much for the question. I shall begin by saying that it is in my capacity as church minister that there has been a Christmas concert, and you ask me in my capacity as Minister of Culture. But I will try to get the different roles to go into a unit, as was the case with the concert. For it is both my and the government's clear priority, on the one hand, to keep the infection down, but, on the other hand, to keep as much of society as possible going. At the church minister's Christmas concert in Holmen's Church, Copenhagen's Boy Choir and the band DUEN participated, which stands for the Danish Youth Ensemble. They are both professional ensembles and thus have their own set of guidelines for professional ensembles. The Christmas concert in Holmens Kirke was thus held with compliance with the applicable area requirements and according to the health authorities' recommendation of distance, which is 2 meters with song with hand spirit, mouthband, cleaning, cough and all the things we know. But at the same time, I can tell you that the musicians in the orchestra were at a distance of one metre and that the individual members of the choir held a distance of two metres. The participants also appeared at a distance of 4 metres to the nearest audience. The Christmas concert was thus held in accordance with the applicable restrictions as well as the recommendations of the health authorities. What I think prompts the questioner to ask is, in relation to this rule, an assembly ban which means that there can be no indoor and outdoor events or activities where there are more than ten people present, which applies to all of us in our social life and in our association life, and also, I think, without knowing their relationship quite specifically, for example. The Way of Garden. How does this fit in with this? Well, that's because in our restrictions we've made some exceptions to this general convention ban, and that makes it possible to maintain some activities, even if it requires that there are more than ten people left. This is true, for example. activities where there is performance or exercise for professional ensembles. It is therefore the rules that have been crucial for Copenhagen's Boy Choir and DUEN to be able to participate in the Christmas concert.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209150730	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209150731	I would like to begin by regretting that I have put it to the Minister for Culture when it should have been to the Minister for Churches, but then it is good that it is the same person I am addressing. There is something I hear, and I would like to pass it on to the minister of church. After all, I stood here two weeks ago and asked the Minister exactly the same questions, because in these restrictions there is something that at least the people see as illogical. You cannot hold Christmas concerts in Jutland with amateur orchestras, even though you might even stand in the square outdoors with a good distance. But then you can see that the church minister can hold his own Christmas concert in Holmens Kirke in Copenhagen, where the pressure of infection was actually increasing, because that was also the case at the time, I know, at the time. Can the Minister not understand that these illogical restrictions may cause coronate fatigue and that, unfortunately, this is also what people are saying that it is simply enough? It is so contradictory that the church minister can hold Christmas concerts himself, but we cannot be allowed to do so as an amateur orchestra in Jutland.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209150855	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209150857	I understand if at first glance it can raise some questions, but I think the questioner overhears the explanations I give and which I actually think are quite clear. The point that this is the church minister's Christmas concert has nothing to do with it. That is completely irrelevant. What is crucial is: who is acting, is the professional or amateur, and where is it that they are acting? What are the distance rules and area requirements? These are the two things I explained in my first reply. We have chosen to hold our hands under jobs, and then we have had to give up some of our social things, including social life.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209150935	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209150936	But there are many of us who have repeatedly heard the Prime Minister stand at the press meetings and appeal to the public mind and appeal to each of us to be good role models. Could the church minister not have chosen to cancel the Christmas concert and thus be a good role model and show community mind?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209150958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209150958-2	The church minister could certainly have done so, and that was certainly also in my deliberations. But what kind of signal would it have sent, given that it is now a balance in which we must both keep the infection under control, but at the same time keep as much of society going? We have also made exceptions in addition to this for jobs, i.e. for professional artists, which means that they can still survive and get bread on the table. We have also made exceptions which allow children and young people under the age of 21 to remain active in society. That is the balance that I would like to stand up for all the way through, because otherwise we will not get through this crisis with both body and mind intact.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209151032	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209151034	I am well aware that the government is always talking about balance. I just feel that when some of the restrictions are as contradictory as I think this example shows, I simply cannot understand that the Minister does not return to the Ministry, which I actually called for two weeks ago, and is looking at whether this is the right decision now. Because it is described that you can do it at a good distance. You stand outside in the squares, among others. Esbjerg, and you want to play Christmas music. Can the Minister not understand the risk that the population will simply become coronated?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209151114	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209151115	Now it is the second time we have this discussion, so allow me to reply a little more in cash than I think I have done the other times. And I'm going to say that no, I actually can't understand it. In fact, I also think that the questioner and the author's party should start to take some more responsibility for helping to explain the clear cut lines that have been laid, precisely by trying to keep our hands under the jobs. That is also true of artistic jobs. It hurts in the heart of a minister of culture, just as it does in the heart of all people of association that association is subject to severe restrictions. But if not our business community, including our artists, is still there to inspire us, then we are also in a bad place. So I'd still like to defend those balances.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209151157	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you to the Minister for Culture and to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209151206	The debate is open. And the first to speak is the Minister for Health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209151240	Yeah, I was just gonna blow off the platform, that's the new move, and that's great. We shall now consider this motion for a resolution to introduce national quality standards for Danish knowledge in our care of the elderly; it has been tabled by the Danish People's Party on 7 October, and thank you for the proposal. The proposal will require the government to submit by the end of this year a legislative proposal introducing standards for Danish knowledge of staff in the care of the elderly. To begin with, I would like to say that I believe it is absolutely crucial that competent staff are employed in the care and care sector, and I agree with the Danish People's Party that it is essential that the staff have the necessary Danish skills. Vulnerable older people must be able to be comfortable with the staff around them. At the same time, I would also like to stress that there is no need for more bureaucracy and no need for more detailed management from Christiansborg, so how do we do that? I am concerned about creating more room for professionalism, more room for management, but also for care and presence in the care of the elderly with the elderly and the relatives. Therefore, we do not want to set such national standards as to how well Danish staff in the older sector should speak, it is a task that is up to management, but there is a great focus on recruiting skilled, committed social and health workers for the care of the elderly. We have just set aside 1.8 billion. kr. for the years 2021-2024 in the Finance Act, together with Enhedslisten, SF, Radical Left and the Alternative, and with that means more time must be provided for care, care and presence in the meeting with the individual citizen. In addition, it should contribute to improving the quality of care for the elderly by focusing on professionalism. The aim is that the municipalities employ more people in the care of the elderly and at the same time work to ensure that more unskilled people are given the opportunity to take social and health training. By giving unskilled workers better opportunities to take social and health education, care for the elderly is also given a quality boost. At the same time, it is important to emphasise that it is a management responsibility to ensure that those employed in the care of the elderly have the right competences in relation to the position and the great responsibility of the employees. And it is absolutely crucial that a responsible and thorough recruitment procedure is carried out in connection with the recruitment of social and health workers in order to determine whether it is the right person to be employed in the job. Linguistic competences are one of the important elements, but I also believe that it is clear and absolutely crucial that we from Christiansborg are careful to establish rigid requirements and rules that make it difficult for municipalities and private suppliers to find staff with the right skills. It is also important that more social and health workers are trained. The government has entered into a tripartite agreement with FH, KL and Danske Regions, which include: should make it more attractive to apply as a sosu assistant. With the agreement, the municipalities undertake to employ adult pupils aged 25 and over from the start of the training. This ensures that the adult pupils receive pay during the initial basic programme and a clear agreement on where to continue internship after the initial programme. With this financial agreement I mentioned earlier, funds are also provided to insure unemployed people who are over 30 years of age and who are unskilled or skilled with outdated training, the right to start a basic social assistant training in 2021 by 110%. of their previous daily subsistence allowance rate. And then 80 million has been set aside. kr. annual, from 2021 up to and including 2024 to an extraordinary increase in the taximeter grant for the main courses of social and health education, i.e. both social and health assistant and social and health care worker. The agreements must help to strengthen recruitment for the training and reduce the drop-out, so that more social and health assistants are trained together, and the linguistic competences of the admission to social and health education are already being highlighted today. In 2015, admission requirements were introduced for the training of social and health care workers and social and health assistant. The students must therefore also today either have passed the elementary school graduation or an equivalent examination and have at least 02 in both Danish and mathematics. In addition, students coming directly from the 9th or 10th classes must be assessed on the basis of training preparation, while pupils with a training agreement with a company automatically meet the entry requirements. And since 2015, the aim of the admission requirements has been to clarify the basic conditions for pupils to be able to complete vocational training, including the sosu programmes. This task force presented a number of recommendations in June of this year to support the recruitment of social and health workers, and on the basis of the task force, among others, there were: EUR 23 million allocated; kr. to support the efforts of pupils with special needs before and during the internship in sosu education in the form of language, culture and learning support; the funds can be used for example. language training, where applicable. In other words, a number of initiatives have been launched to ensure that the students admitted to the sosu programmes have the necessary competences, including within Danish. Therefore, we in the government do not believe that it is necessary to lay down additional legal requirements and language requirements on the part of the Folketing. However, I would like to conclude by saying that two months ago, as you know, in cooperation with the Elders Case, the FOA and the KL, we held our senior summit over two days, together with among others. citizens, relatives, employees and managers discussed challenges and proposals for solutions in the area of the elderly. We have received a great many views and good ideas from that summit, and we four parties are now working together to improve the care of the elderly and to set a direction for the area. And a big thank you from me to the FOA, the Elders Case and the KL for going so constructively and actively into the great work it is to set a new and better direction in the area of the elderly. Much of it costs money, and therefore also from me a great deal of thanks to the Finance Law parties, which had the area lifted tremendously and much needed with this year's Financial Act for next year. In concrete terms, after the Elder Summit, there are six main tracks that the parties are working on. One track deals with the recruitment of social and health workers, while several are related. So it is all in all important to emphasise that the government is very concerned about recruiting skilled and competent staff in the care of the elderly. We do not believe that national standards of language competence among social and health workers are the right way to go, so we cannot support the proposal itself from the Danish People's Party; but we welcome the debate on competences and recruitment in the care of the elderly very, very much, because this needs to be given further attention. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209152003	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209152007	Thank you. Yes, it is a pity that the Minister cannot support the idea that one should of course be able to speak and write Danish and also have a conversation in the care of the elderly. For the fact that one cannot understand one another, one might say, gives a lack of communication, and that may be a danger to the elderly. However, we have discussed this in the past about doctors, and there was the Minister out saying that we must understand what the doctor is saying and that the government will make demands on doctors from abroad. And the Minister was also out to say that it is quite untenable that we have situations where patients come in and meet doctors who speak so grimly Danish that they do not actually understand a word of what is being said; that is what the Minister says. What's the difference here? Why should doctors be able to speak a clear Danish and communicate in a clear Danish while other employees in the care and care sector should not? There are no demands on them, or how is that supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209152112	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209152114	Thank you for the question and thank you for raising this debate. But the difference is that if you come as a doctor and have a recognised medical education, you will immediately be able to get a job in Denmark. We have a shortage of doctors so that we can provide this recognized training and get a job in a hospital, in a general practitioner or elsewhere. And here we are talking about people who are educated in Denmark; people who have entered a school and have at least 02 in Danish, that is. people who are educated in Denmark with the requirements required to receive the education in Denmark. That's where the difference lies.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209152157	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209152200	I simply do not understand the Minister's answer. So, the Minister will not impose any language requirements on those who work in our care and care sector, but the Minister himself has been out to say in relation to doctors that one must of course be able to speak a clear Danish and communicate in Danish and be able to have a conversation. The Minister has also been out to say that there can be a risk of mishandling if you cannot communicate properly in the language. But the Minister will not act when it comes to nurses, or if it comes to social and health assistants, or if it comes to social and health workers or unskilled staff who are recruited, who cannot speak well enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209152237	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209152239	I'm sorry if you don't understand my answer. Then I'll try to justify it. When Mrs Karina Adsbøl compares this to the situation of doctors who come from third countries with a doctor's degree and get jobs in Denmark, that is to say who want work in Denmark and have an approved education, then they are doctors who are not trained in Denmark, and many of them have probably never set foot in this country before. And they must then first pass a language test, a language test. It is something quite different from when it comes to people who are educated here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209152319	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209152319-2	Thank you so much. Not long ago we were in this Chamber, and there I asked the Minister whether he thought it was a good idea for some municipalities to use it as a form of integration project to get women from ghetto areas in particular into sosu education. And now, today, we are discussing a proposal that you should be able to speak Danish properly when you are in a caring profession, such as... to the elderly, i.e. to care for older Danes. I understand from the Minister that the Minister does not think this is so important. There is a great deal in the language that makes one understand one another and that one can be clear, and therefore it is also quite important that the older Dane may even even have someone who suffers from dementia basically can understand what the caregiver who is with him says, and that it goes the other way too, of course. Does the Minister really not think that, when we are in the situation we are doing today, when there are simply municipalities using it as an integration project, it is extremely important that those who come out to the Danes speak Danish properly?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209152435	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209152435-2	Yeah, I mean that. This is extremely important for the elderly, for the elderly's relatives and for the conversation and the relationship that is so important between the elderly and the employees. Therefore, it is an important part of the management task when it comes to recruitment, and an important part of the training task when it comes to admission to the training and the course of the training, to ensure that there are the Danish knowledge needed, like the other knowledge, the other human qualities, the culture that must be and the professionalism that must also be, is also part of the management task in the individual municipality, at the individual elderly centre and part of the task for the training courses, which also has the demand for an average character of at least 02 in Danish by admission.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209152535	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209152535-2	Thank you very much, and thank you for your answer. So, in New Citizens we say clearly: we do not want older people to be exposed to elderly people being used as some kind of integration project around the various municipalities. But I also have to say to the Minister that a 02 in Danish is not necessarily something that means that you speak and understand Danish properly at the level that is required, for example, when you have to carry out some of the care tasks that you have in the care of the elderly. Does the Minister not think that there is reason for the demand to be raised a little?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209152615	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209152616	I also fully agree that it cannot be said that, because of the 02 in Danish, we are sure that we have the language and linguistic competences that are needed. I fully agree with that; it will not be possible to compare that. That is why I mention it, because it is part of the picture that Danish knowledge is required to enter the programme, but it is only the task of the management, when recruiting employees, to ensure that they have the competences, including linguistic competences, which are so crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209152649	Thank you, Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209152650	I fully agree with the Minister: the management is responsible for hiring staff. So far, so good. But I've been in dialogue with a lot of nursing home managers... a handful of five care centers... and asked what problems they had with recruitment. And the biggest problem they had with recruitment was that some of those who sought work on the site could not Danish well enough. When we had a hearing, I asked FOA how to get through an education without being able to Danish well enough to be employed. The FOA said that there was no problem, because if you could take the training, you could also be with an elderly person. I think there is really a big difference, and I think that there must be somewhere, there is a problem. For now we have some who are educated out there, we have some posts that we would like to have occupied but the two things cannot be mapped because you cannot speak the language.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209152754	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209152755	I can also recognise this problem from the Older People's Summit, i.e. that the recruitment challenge in the care of the elderly is enormous and only gets bigger, which is why it is crucial not only to set aside money for hiring but also to set aside money for training. And that is exactly what the Finance Act with the Enhedslisten, the SF, the Radicals and the Alternative contains, namely that funds have also been set aside for specific language teaching in relation to the SOSU courses, both before and during the internship, also in connection with the task force's work. Because the problem described by Mrs Liselott Blixt, namely that there are some who cannot Danish and who are looking for the job, will not be solved by this proposal. This will still be the case both before this proposal has been dealt with and after it is said that it was introduced that these people will not have to have a job in the care of the elderly if the managements consider that they do not speak sufficiently well Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209152854	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209152855	In relation to the fact that we are able to set a standard for what to do: I think it is a waste of money, and if once again some money is set aside to give some Danish lessons and you say that 02 in writing is good enough, I would say: you must be able to talk to an older lady of an 80-90 years of poor hearing etc. And this isn't meant to be somebody who's getting very far from here. It can just be an ordinary Swede, who pratar lite svenska, and yes then it can be difficult to understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209152928	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209152930	Yeah, at least it can. But I think that may also be a very good example, i.e. these examples, that it is incredibly difficult to say that there is one test, one task, and if you can solve it, you have sufficient language skills. It must be up to a concrete assessment, a conversation between the management and this person who is looking for the job. And it may well be that there are some in the Helsingør area where you speak better Swedish than you do elsewhere in Denmark who think that it is actually fine with someone who has a little Swedish dialect or Swedish accent, while it will probably be harder in Jutland where you have harder on it. And you have to find out.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209153007	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. The next speaker is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Birgitte Vind.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209153028	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the DF for the proposal. Every day thousands of dedicated employees go to work in Danish care for the elderly because they are passionate about making a difference to older people, and being able to communicate with a citizen is obviously a prerequisite for being able to do the job in the care of the elderly. As we have just talked about here and as the Minister has also mentioned, the training of social and health assistant is a vocational training and, in order to be admitted, one must, among other things. have 02 in Danish and mathematics, a rule which is 5 years old. In addition, pupils coming from primary school must be declared ready for training. And the day when they are fully trained SOSUs and have to work with their professional skills, it must be the individual municipality, but also the private suppliers, who are responsible for ensuring that they have the right skills and resources and that the tasks to be performed at each care centre or in the care of the elderly can be carried out. The intentions with DF's proposals are, in fact, very sympathetic, but let me just make clear to the Danish People's Party: the municipalities are responsible for the employer, and so they are responsible for ensuring that the aid to the elderly meets its purpose. In fact, I do not know any municipalities which are not engaged in hiring the most suitable staff and, moreover, also in continuing training the staff they employ. So with all my best will I do not really see the need for the Danish knowledge of the nursing staff to be dictated here from Christiansborg. Instead, I think we should be much more concerned with recruiting more people for education. Most recently, KL, FH and Danske Regions, as the Minister also mentioned, have concluded an agreement with the government on apprenticeships aimed at reducing the drop-out of vocational training courses and ensuring more skilled workers, among other things. social and health assistants and helpers. And in the Finance Act, 80 million have been set aside. kr. a year for an additional increase in taximeter subsidies on the main course of the courses. And the municipalities are also given the opportunity to hire more. I think we should remember in this Chamber that public sector employees are motivated by participation, and therefore it is absolutely essential that the professionalism of employees be put at risk. So, rather than more bureaucracy and control, we could start talking more about both education and, above all, the subject here in this Chamber, because I think the elderly and the employees really deserve that. Social democracy cannot support the proposal as it stands here, but I hope that in the committee we will be able to land a common text that focuses on attracting more students to the very important education programmes. I should also like to welcome the rapporteur on health and the elderly of the Radical Left and say that they support the line taken by the Social Democratic Party in relation to this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209153342	There are a few brief comments. First, it's from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209153345	Thank you. I am thinking that the elder rapporteur agrees with the Danish People's Party that security and security are extremely important for an elderly citizen that one can understand among others. the home helper, sosu employee or anything that comes into your home. I am asked by older people that they often find it difficult to understand those who come to their homes and that they see it as a problem. I just want to know whether the rapporteur has never received such a message and has never heard that it is a problem if it is that you get people into your home who cannot speak Danish and cannot communicate in Danish? One is that it makes the elderly very insecure; another is that there can be mistreatment, right? So now the older rapporteur talks a lot about education, but what is in it is that there are trained people who are not so good at Danish, and that there are also non-skilled people who are employed as temporary workers in the care and care sector, who also do not have good language skills.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209153452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209153453	Thank you for the question. The question was, I think, specifically, whether I had heard of similar cases, as Mrs Adsbøl puts it. Yes, I have, and I could hear the Minister also know that there may be language problems. But one thing is that we hear it sometimes; another is what is being done about it, and I would say that it is the municipalities that are responsible for the employer. I am also familiar with municipalities which, when they receive some excellent applications, but where they can hear that there is something about the language, possibly offer Danish education, which is also an opportunity that you have as an employer. It is, after all, about a comprehensive package of competences that employees must have. So the municipalities actually have some opportunities to do something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209153544	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209153546	Now it is also the case that I know that the Elders case has also been out to say in the past that of course one must be able to speak Danish, also understandably, and also be able to have a conversation. But when you listen to the Social Democracy, when you listen to the government, you can hear that there is no desire to do anything in here from Christiansborg. In other words, we are making standards, we are making action plans and we are making legislation so that it could really give a boost in the care sector that we demand that one should of course be able to speak Danish and that one should of course be able to communicate in Danish to the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209153620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209153621	Yes, and of course I have also noticed what kind of standards are proposed by the Danish People's Party, and when I read them through, I think that all this would be ensured by an employer. So, I think that it will be the case that at least you have the opportunity to make sure that the employees you call for an interview can have the four points that the Danish People's Party has now lined up. So I'm thinking that the tools are already there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209153650	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209153652	The rapporteur says that we should speak the subject, and I would very much like that because I am a trained social and health assistant. And I think that every day you talk the subject down by calling us sosu assistants or sosu helpers. Could you not start by pronouncing our name and title: social and health assistant or social and health care worker? That would do a lot. And then I think we should talk the subject up by saying that we should not make it into something where we get some of those who are not in work to be lured in to get a job, and then we can give them some Danish lessons, and then we can get some more. That is exactly what we have been trying to do for many years, as Mrs Mette Thiesen also mentioned, in other words that we have used it as something where we believe that we can get people, and especially women, to work. But you just misunderstood the concept. We need dignified care for the elderly, that is. an elderly care where you can talk and understand each other. And there is a problem when you hear the rapporteur and when you hear the minister, because it sounds like there is no problem. On the contrary, you want even more people who cannot speak Danish and then give them some Danish lessons. Is that what the Social Democrats want?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209153758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209153759	At any rate, I think it is a really, very good idea that we can get people into work and also make women self-supporting. So I would like to speak warmly for that at any time. But we should not employ people in the care of the elderly who do not want to be there or who are not suitable for it. I also find it very difficult to imagine that the municipalities do. But I can hear that the rapporteur is aware of that is what is happening, and I think that is a cause for reflection, and that is something we need to have a talk with each other about in relation to what we can do further. We all know in this room that there's a shortage of labour, and that's a big part of the reality we're all in.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209153846	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209153847	But the rapporteur said precisely those words: lack of labour. Fortunately, I am the Social Committee chairman of a municipality which has a very good service for the elderly, so that we can opt out of those who do not speak properly Danish. But there are some municipalities that cannot. So if we have a department with older people where they can't get anyone but those who apply, but who are bad at Danish, then they have to take them. And then they get some of them because we haven't been good enough to make demands on what they should be able to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209153921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209153923	I understand what the questioner is saying, but I have to keep on holding on to the fact that it is therefore the responsibility of the municipalities to employ suitable staff for the vacant posts. And we can't sit here in a hall and decide who to hire. And the demands that you, like liner, are making, I think the municipalities can live up to.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209153942	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209154002	First of all, thank you to the Danish People's Party for putting an important theme on the agenda, namely our care for the elderly. For us in the Left, it is absolutely crucial that our elderly receive a dignified care and a dignified care, that our elderly and our relatives can feel safe in the everyday life they have at home and the everyday life that is lived in the nursing home. You have to be comfortable with the staff you let into your home, and you have to be comfortable with the staff who care for you when you need help in one way or another, for example. in a nursing home. Helping to feel secure about the staff who look after you is that you feel confident that the staff have the right professional skills. This is true both in terms of health care and also in terms of language. Our older people must be able to understand the staff, who must speak an understandable Danish, even if the Danish language is not always logical or easy. Go and stop my car, it's standing and going, porridge with cream, tunnel or tunnel pla pla pla pla pla pla pla pla pla pla pla pla pla ossuelle, nine ossuelle or nine ossuelles or sixty ossuelle. Yes, I could give many other examples of how both we ethnic Danes, but also foreigners sometimes have to knot themselves to speak, understand and pronounce Danish correctly. Whatever we are rounded up by linguistic or professional, it is the employers, often the municipalities, who have a huge responsibility to ensure both professional and linguistic competences. This is true both in relation to education, but also since when you are hiring. Professional and linguistic competences do not only play a role in meeting people. They also play a role in meeting the system. Because you also need to have good written skills, so you have to have good written skills, for example. can keep a file and read up on the history. Recently we had a hearing on the Danish Parliament's Health and Older People's Committee, which was about how we now and in the future ensure health professionals throughout Denmark. One of the topics that we touched on during the hearing was precisely linguistic competence of people with a different ethnic background from Danish, and in my mind there is no doubt. If you have a job where you meet people, often in vulnerable situations, as I understood the reports during the hearing, they are aware at the social and health assistant schools that especially the conversational skills can be improved, even if you have to have 02 in Danish to be admitted. On the left side, we would like to see, rather than having a common national standard launched, work aimed at encouraging both the social and health assistant schools and internships in the municipalities to a greater extent than is the case today, the government to enter into dialogue with the municipalities, and we would also like to take part in the negotiations on linguistic improvement potentials as part of social and health assistant education if the Minister so calls. A good language and good linguistic understanding are essential for a good and secure environment and the close relationship that must and should be between citizens and carers. The Danish People's Party does not mention anything about the economy in the comments to the resolution and, at the risk of being misunderstood, I would just like to state here that this is, of course, an independent theme which would also have to be identified. The Left supports the intentions of the resolution and, as I said, we are happy to take part in further work. It could also be in the form of a report where together we could agree on initiatives that point in the right direction in terms of strengthening the language skills of staff in the care of the elderly. But we do not support an actual national standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209154404	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left. Then the rapporteur for the proposers has chosen to split up her speaking time, which is why it is now Mrs Karina Adsbøl who has five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209154428	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party, we want to be able to speak and write Danish when working in our care and care sectors, and it must not be difficult for the relatives or elderly to communicate with the staff or understand them. Therefore, there is a need to set national standards for Danish knowledge in the care of the elderly. It is the responsibility of management to ensure that national standards are respected by all staff. When recruiting new staff in the care of the elderly, the management should be obliged to make sure that the applicant speaks a clear and understandable Danish and that the applicant can read and write Danish so that the required documentation can be done in a reassuring manner. If there is doubt about the applicant's Danish knowledge, he or she cannot be recruited unless the management first ensures that Danish knowledge is improved to meet national standards. Danish Examination 3 does not take sufficient account of the conversational skills, and therefore it will not be sufficient to extend the requirement for a passed Danish Examination 3 to the staff in the care of the elderly. The aim of national standards for Danish knowledge of staff in the care of the elderly is to ensure that staff can have an effortless, fluid and clear conversation in Danish with the elderly, the relatives and other professionals. Therefore, national standards should include requirements for staff to be able to have an effortless conversation in Danish about ordinary everyday topics with the elderly citizen, to have an effortless conversation in Danish about the condition of the elderly citizen with the relatives, to have an effortless conversation in Danish about professional observations and instructions with other professionals and to read and write Danish at a level that enables them to orient themselves in journals etc. and comply with the documentation requirements in a reassuring manner. Older citizens in nursing homes or in their own homes can often be weakened, and in many cases neither memory nor hearing is as good as it used to be. In September a video of a male caring worker appeared, humiliatingly recording the elderly lady while speaking English to the elderly lady. He says, and I quote now I hope I'm not getting yelled at by the President; it's a quote: Are you crazy or what the fuck is wrong with you? That's what the helper says. Translated into Danish does that mean: Are you crazy or what the hell is wrong with you? The social and health worker continues to speak English to the woman who says that she simply does not understand what he is saying. You can see that she is experiencing great insecurity about this. So not only is the humiliating video recording done in a language that the elderly lady does not understand. Much can go wrong if the health and care staff and a patient do not speak the same language. Even minor misunderstandings can lead to wrong diagnoses and mistreatments and, at worst, can also have fatal consequences. Therefore, nurses, doctors and other healthcare professionals from EU countries can get work in Denmark without any requirement for their Danish knowledge. If they come from outside the EU, they must first pass a test, but it has then been accused of only showing whether they can read and write Danish, and not whether they can also have a conversation. After all, this is a debate that we have had in the House in the past, and the Minister has also said in the past that it is so crucial that you can communicate with your doctor, and we can never compromise on that. And I do not think we should compromise with other workers in the care and care sector either. It should be true that you must of course be able to speak and write Danish and be able to have a conversation, and that applies to all staff working in the care and care sector. That is why I hope that Parliament's parties can support it, but I can see that there is no support for it now. I would just like to say with regard to the Socialist rapporteur, who said that it is possible to do so today, that if we were to make sure of it today, we would not be hearing about the many examples we are hearing about. In other words, if this were to be secured today, there would be no examples such as those on our table. However, I look forward to the debate and I look forward to having the floor again to the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209154911	Thank you. My blissful father always said he was grossly happy if the home helper would talk a little bit torn-up when she came and looked after him. However, we shall now proceed to the debate and the first to make a brief comment is Mr Beazley. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209154930	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. It is true, as Mrs Karina Adsbøl said, that the Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party have previously raised the debate on language requirements for doctors coming from EU countries where there are absolutely no demands. But I was just a little surprised when I heard the rapporteur say that Danish Examination 3 is not enough. That is what we are demanding of doctors who come from third countries and whom they must be able to meet. Is it the rapporteur's view that we need to make even stricter demands on people who have to work in the care and care sectors, in other words sosu assistants and sosu helpers, than we need to go to doctors who have to work in the health care sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209155015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209155023	What I mentioned was that there had been a lot of criticism that you could not have a conversation. The rapporteur will also be able to read this in relation to language requirements 3, i.e. to be able to talk and have a conversation. That is the part that has been criticized. Our proposal is that we should have national standards, and the demands we would like to see are in the motion for a resolution, among other things. the fact that you have to be able to have an effortless conversation in Danish about the condition of the elderly citizen also with the relatives, so that you also have to be able to talk effortlessly with the relatives. It has been criticised for this in relation to the part the rapporteur is asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209155053	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209155054	But Danish Test 3 is a pretty tough test. Well, there we are talking about a level that is roughly upper secondary school level. Is this really what we have to put down as a barrier, that is to say that we must both obtain Danish test 3 in order to be able to work in the care and care sector, and that further demands are then made in addition to that? Is that the objective?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209155123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209155123-2	The objective, as I said earlier, is also that, in my rapporteur's speech, we should have national standards that I listed before, because this is so important. We have been told that it is often the case that the demands made today are not enough in terms of engaging in a conversation. That is why, I think, it is important for us to have national standards, and I hope that Enhedslisten will be involved in this, so that we can jointly land either a report, I think, or if the Enhedslisten will vote through this proposal, it is even better.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209155155	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209155158	Thank you. I am thinking that the social and health schools have just got new rules and new admission criteria in relation to the pupils they are going to accept, which is precisely about passing a Danish test. Is it not the rapporteur's view that this has actually been a factor in the fact that relatively more well-educated social and health workers and assistants also have the linguistic skills that are needed when working in the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209155229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209155230	It is so important that you have the linguistic skills that you need when working in our care and care sector. Because it's about life, and it's about getting the right treatment, and for many older people, it's also about being safe, being safe with the staff who come in. In other words, what we have heard in relation to Danish exam 3 is also, as I say, that it does not adequately take into account the conversational skills, and that is also important when you come out and communicate. But we want these national standards, and I would also hope that SF will enter into a dialogue on this. Because it's so incredibly important. I have also noticed that there are several organisations that want this, so that you must of course be able to speak and write Danish and be able to communicate with them that you come out to and with. This is simply so important, especially when you work in this sector either as a social and health assistant, nurse, social and health worker or also as an unskilled worker. As has already been mentioned, we have also heard about integration projects in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209155340	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209155341	I fully agree that it is important to be able to communicate and also communicate well when working in the health sector. However, my question was whether the changes made to social and health education have worked, i.e. whether it is the rapporteur's view that this has been completely irrelevant in order for staff to be recruited today who are able to learn to read and speak the language in a way that can be used in the care sector. And what other standards does the rapporteur think would be necessary in order to actually solve the problem that the rapporteur would like to resolve, namely that it is possible to measure whether they have linguistic competences?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209155426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209155428	Yes, the motion for a resolution states that we believe that national standards should include a requirement as to what staff should be able to do. It is at the end of the proposal on page 2. In relation to the second part, whether it has helped: I would hope that it has helped, but I still hear away these examples and I actually think that the SF's rapporteur does in his e-mail or reads in the newspapers that one has not been able to understand the one who should help you and that there is much in relation to communication.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209155505	Thank you. There are no further comments to the rapporteur. We shall return to the rapporteur at the end. The first rapporteur after this is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209155521	Thank you. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for making the proposal. I think this is an important debate. I would like to start by saying that. And I thought myself, when I read the proposal, if you don't know about the fact that you are on a charter trip, and you really think that you speak a very good and understandable foreign language. Some people rarely comment on the fact that they actually sometimes have more than usual difficulty understanding what they are saying. It's hard, isn't it? We're not doing that right now. We have got used to trying to understand each other, even when language skills are not equal. That is good, and we can deal with that in many areas of society. When it comes to sick and weakened citizens, it is absolutely crucial that communication is clear and that there is no misunderstanding. That is why I also understand the proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party. It is absolutely crucial that the pupils admitted to health education both understand, read, write and speak an understandable Danish. I also know that the educational institutions are aware of this, and there are even stricter requirements to be admitted to education today. In other situations, however, I believe that it is up to the individual employer to ensure that the staff employed both understand, read, write and speak an understandable Danish. I also believe that employers in the health sector are concerned about this. The challenge is that health professionals are not stuck on trees. Therefore, in some places you may find yourself in a situation where you have to choose between a foreign doctor, nurse or social and health assistant or no new colleague. I believe that a new colleague is more useful than no new colleague, even though there may be linguistic problems. This brings me back to my introduction, because I believe that this is something that we must also talk about loudly in the workplace. We must be aware that correct pronunciation and difficult Danish grammar can be challenging for some, and it can be a field of action. For one is learning the language through education, another is learning to speak the language fluently. The last thing you actually learn when you use it. Sometimes this may mean that the work must be organised in a way so that a colleague who has a little more difficulty in understanding or reading must work with other colleagues who have the linguistic skills. However, I do not think the time has come for us to set national standards on how we understand each other and when communication is sufficient for us to actually understand each other. Because it's individual. And fortunately there are also a lot of older people who have become accustomed to people having accents of different kinds. I believe that we can deal with this, and I believe that local jobs are also aware of it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209155831	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209155835	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. Should I then understand that SF is not in favour of having an effortless conversation in Danish about ordinary everyday subjects with the elderly citizen, having an effortless conversation in Danish about the condition of the elderly citizen with the relatives, having an effortless conversation in Danish about professional observations or instructions with other professionals, reading and writing Danish at a level that enables him to orient himself in journals, etc., and fulfilling the documentation requirements in a reassuring manner? Because what we would like to see in national standards is precisely this. And I just want to know if SF supports it. I would also like to hear from the SF whether the SF's rapporteur has not also been asked about this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209155927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209155928	SF's have also sometimes been asked questions about the fact that there may be linguistic barriers in the health sector, actually very often in relation to doctors. This is also one of the reasons why more stringent requirements have been made in relation to admission to education, for example. in relation to having passed a primary education. This also means that in order to be admitted you must be able to read, disc and understand Danish. I think the challenge of the proposal put forward by Mrs Karina Adsbøl is that we lack a definition of what an effortless conversation is. For it will be individual, what is difficult to understand for one and the other respectively. I am aware that there are situations in the care of the elderly where language is a barrier, and I believe that as a management one also has a responsibility to organise oneself out of, so as not to risk situations where misunderstandings arise.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209160031	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209160032	However, we can see that when we are all asked that there is a challenge in this area, and when large organisations have also been out to say that it is important to speak Danish, there is a challenge. So, despite the fact that the rapporteur says it is a management responsibility, we have a challenge. Because if you lived up to that responsibility, surely we did not see the examples we see or the examples that come into our mailbox.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209160109	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209160110	I get a lot of inquiries about elderly care in my mailbox. I stand right here wondering how many of them are actually about languages. I mentioned doctors before because it's been a challenge. But the vast majority of inquiries I receive in relation to care for the elderly are about older people who think they need more help than the help they get. Or it's about staff who find that they don't have the time at all to solve the tasks professionally. So I think we have major problems to solve, and language is not the biggest.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209160143	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. And then we're gonna listen to sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten (The Red Greens). Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209160153	Thank you for that, President. We in the Enhedslisten fully agree with the proposers that both relatives and older people should of course experience that they can communicate with the employees in the care of the elderly, i.e. the people they are in contact with. It is important both with security and dignity in the care of the elderly, and a large part of it is about the relation, namely understanding each other. In the proposal the proposers themselves mention dialects • The President also mentioned what importance dialects can have for communication • and there are also age differences and generation differences in the Danish language, and there must of course be room for that. It can even give an extra little chat and a good laugh when the young people who are in and work in the care of the elderly during a sabbatical year, for example. Put puzzles with the older resident and tell about Snapchat and TikTok and other things that I don't know much about either. But that's not what this proposal is about. The proposal is about making more stringent rules in terms of being able to work in the care and care sector and in some areas even stricter rules than those we have set for, for example. doctors who come from abroad and have to work in Denmark. In the case of doctors coming from third countries, therefore, countries outside the EU are required to be able to pass Danish examination 3. Doctors coming from EU countries do not impose any language requirements at all. But here we are talking about the fact that we are actually going to make tougher demands on people who have to work in the care and care sector than we are doing, for example. Doctors. We do not think that in the Enhedslisten is the way we should go. Because, of course, we must ensure that communication is in place; that citizens, employees and relatives can talk. But there are already admission requirements for the sosu schools. There is a requirement to have passed what corresponds to the extended graduation examination of the primary school. There is a requirement that one should be able to speak Danish and be able to write Danish. And that is why we would actually rather make an increased effort to help people into sosu education. It could also be through intro programmes where there could be a focus on e.g. language, if that is what the applicants have challenges with. However, there will be an increasing number of older people and we need to get more people into education, and that is why we also need to strengthen access for those who have problems with language skills. And that is actually what we would rather focus on, and it is also one of the things we focus on in the financial law negotiations. For the group of elderly people who need help is increasing in the coming years, and we need to be able to attract more staff, including trained staff, and that is also why we have given a boost to employing more people who can help to raise the level of education in the care of the elderly, and this will also help to strengthen linguistic skills. Of course, communication between elderly people and relatives and colleagues in the care of the elderly must be good and understandable and at a certain level. But we cannot support the proposal that lies here because it simply imposes too strict requirements in relation to being able to work in the care and care sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209160512	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209160516	Thank you. Well, I think that is actually a pity, because in the past we have agreed with Enhedslisten that there must be a language requirement with regard to doctors and that one must have passed Danish test 3. But what I said earlier was that there had been a little criticism in relation to the subject of the conversations. So I want to hear Enhedslisten: Why should there be a difference? Why not just make it the same, so why not tighten it up slightly with the doctors, so that they too, of course, have to meet some national standards that we are setting here in the Parliamentary Chamber? Then there would be no difference. In other words, it is extremely important to be able to communicate with those who work in the care and care sector, whether you are a doctor, a healthcare professional, a social and health care worker or a social and health assistant. But there are also a number of temporary workers employed in this area, and they aren't even in this equation, in other words in relation to what Enhedslisten's rapporteur is saying on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209160624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209160625	First of all, what has at least been agreed between the Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party has been the fact that it is unreasonable that there should be no language requirements at all, and that is what we are talking about when it comes to doctors from EU countries; there are no language requirements at all. After all, we have said that we believe that they should be in line with what is required of doctors coming from third countries, i.e. Danish examination 3. We have now not been involved in calling for this to be tightened up further. But I also think that there is a difference in that when we talk about people who work as both sosu helpers and sosu assistants, then there are language requirements for them. In other words, we demand that a Danish examination be passed which is at least equivalent to the primary school's final examination. There is this in relation to admission to training, and there is this in relation to employment. I think, in fact, that what is crucial is that we set a level. I am quite open to the fact that with a joint report we can find out how we can strengthen this development; how we can ensure that we have better linguistic competences. However, I think that this proposal is far too strict in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209160734	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209160737	So Enhedslisten thinks it's too tight that we want to demand Danish exam 3 and want to be able to have an effortless conversation in Danish about ordinary everyday subjects with the elderly citizen; that you can have an effortless conversation in Danish about the condition of the elderly citizen with the relatives, have an effortless conversation in Danish about professional observations and instructions with other professionals; and that you can read and write Danish at a level that enables him to orient himself in journals etc. and comply with the documentation requirements in a reassuring manner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209160812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209160813	But that depends entirely on what these are for some tasks that need to be solved here. I mean, if, for example... is about doctors who have record responsibility and must be able to pass deeply complicated messages, including to patients, so it is clear that there must be a high requirement. If we are talking about all employees in the care and care sector, i.e. also people who are engaged in cleaning tasks alone, then it is not necessarily certain that we should have the same requirements for them. But it is clear that to the extent that you need to have relational contact with citizens, it must also be ensured that there are sufficient Danish knowledge available, and we want to help to ensure that we have better conditions for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209160853	There are no more brief comments, so we thank Mr. Peder Hvelplund and welcome to Mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209160911	Thank you for that, President. Thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution for debating the subject of language skills. I think that the greatest challenge we have in the care of the elderly is to attract enough staff. It is actually a huge challenge for a great many municipalities to be able to attract enough social and health assistants so that they are sure that the elderly can get the help and care they need. That is the absolute greatest challenge. It is therefore also welcome that, after all, some initiatives are being taken to train more social and health assistants. I myself have struck a little on the drum for it, in that at the moment we have a situation of covid-19, where there are plenty of people who have lost their jobs, adult people who are used to working in the service industry, where I imagine there can be a great deal that could be retrained to social and health assistants. We need to get more quality into care and care than we do in the examples that the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution depicted here from the platform about quite awful situations where the elderly had been exposed to some people who have no empathy and do not have the ability to care, quite awful, and they must of course be let out. It is simply a question of getting more quality into care for the elderly, and this will require a great deal of effort, because we can see that the figures speak their clear language in relation to the shortage of social and health assistants in the future; so we must bear that in mind. With regard to language competence, it is true that it is the municipalities that are responsible for the employer, and I am sure they will solve that. I am constantly getting a lot of inquiries from citizens, and I have never actually heard of the fact that in the care of the elderly where I live there should be problems with language skills. And if there is, then it is something the municipalities need to take care of, because of course they must ensure that the people they have employed to care for the elderly can also communicate with the elderly in an understandable Danish, so that no situations arise that are inappropriate. I am also of the opinion that there is a big difference, depending on what it is about, because if you are in conversation with a doctor, there must be the possibility of being diagnosed, but if the conversation is with a home nurse, it is basically other things that are at stake. But here it is the responsibility of the employer. We in the Conservatives do not think that we should go down in detail, as proposed here, because the municipalities can manage it on their own. So we will not be supporting the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209161214	Thank you, Mr Conservatives' rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so I would like to welcome Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. Yeah, we're gonna get a whole new team of sosu assistants who can do the crafts! Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209161235	Thank you so much. One seems to use the municipal care sector to some extent to send people to work who would never have applied for a job of their own in a nursing home. For example: In the municipality of Elsinore, the care sector has been used to get immigrants from the ghetto Sensitivity moved from cash assistance to work. And it is a good thing that immigrants are put to work for food, but it is deeply problematic to force a person into a job that requires so much care and empathy for some of the most vulnerable in our society. Those who have to work for our elderly in the care of the elderly must, of course, do so out of desire and not out of compulsion. They must, of course, also speak a proper Danish; it goes without saying. When you have to take care of older Danes, some may even with dementia, you must be able to speak an easily understood Danish, and you must of course also understand the Danish that is being spoken back to you. One must understand the situation of the elderly and one must understand what they are asking for, one must be able to write it down understandably if they have needs to be met and one must be able to deliver orally to a colleague. And it is both insecure and inappropriate if those who come to the homes of the elderly do not speak and understand Danish at an appropriate level. We're not recruiting from scratch. We must recruit from the top among the many who can and will provide caring and empathetic care to our elderly, and fortunately there are most of them. It is also an insult to their everyday efforts when the municipalities send them new helpers on their necks, who cannot and will not make a proper effort. In New Citizens we want more freedom and more free choice, both to choose from and to choose from, and the money must follow the individual elderly. It will ensure that bad offers are chosen from and good chosen for; it is common sense. And as a minimum, we must of course ensure that Danish elderly people are not exposed to care staff who cannot understand themselves in Danish. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209161453	You're welcome. There are no brief comments. Let me take a look around. Does anyone want to speak for the Liberal Alliance? There isn't. We shall now turn to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, who has divided his speaking time into two speeches under this item. It's a little trick we've got. It is possible that, if you are rapporteur for the proposers on a proposal, you will have two speeches when you share your time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209161523	Thank you. I like a bunch of tricks like that. I would like to thank you for the debate. It is the case today that we have a great many challenges in our care and care sector. The language that we have debated today is one of them. Every day skilled employees go to work and make a huge difference, and they should be very thankful for that, but unfortunately we have also seen a number of stumbled vessels, and we in the Danish People's Party want to stop them. So, unfortunately, we have seen older people who have been subjected to theft, sexual abuse or other things, and that is why we have also proposed that they should have and should produce a public criminal record. It should simply be a duty to catch up with one of these. It's not today. It is a 'can' clause to obtain an ordinary criminal record and not a "must' rule in the law, and that means that you can be recruited again somewhere else. Nor is it in relation to private suppliers; they are not even able to obtain a public criminal record. That is another challenge, after all. Then of course, Mrs Liselott Blixt: social and health assistants and social and health workers. I myself am also a social and health assistant. And it's really good that we have a huge focus on it. We have had that for a long time now, and it takes a very long time to get the employees that are needed, and it is of course also important that we do our part to talk the very good employees up. However, when I think that we have a challenge in relation to the language that we have debated today, it is because you can read articles or other articles repeatedly that there are challenges in this area. And when the Socialist rapporteur says that this is a management responsibility, we in the Danish People's Party are in complete agreement. It is a management responsibility; we also write that in the resolution. However, the leader must also be able to meet the national standards that we would like to set, so that we do not hear about these examples which can lead to mistreatment and insecurity among the elderly. But there is enough to get to grips with in the area of the elderly, which is why we have also taken note of ourselves today, and it is so gratifying that we are called for some older negotiations next week. In the past, we have allocated funds to the area of the elderly. I also hope that the Minister will call for a really great debate after the older summit, which we have had, so that we can take action and ensure that older people have the care and care they need. We would like to see in the Danish People's Party an old law, that is to say that the right to care was written into the legislation and that the rock card scheme was written into the legislation. This is something we have struggled with, including in the last negotiations we have been in, about the reserve. It is also the case today that there is, in fact, no obligation to notify adults, just as there is in the area of children. If children are neglected today, they are obliged to respond. If elderly people or people over the age of 18 are deprived of care, there is no obligation to make a notification, as we see it today. Unfortunately, it has also been seen that there is a failure in this area. So we have a common political task, and it is certainly from here that we must create a framework. And, of course, we want to give the elderly self-determination to be able to choose. Now we have just been in negotiations on welfare agreements, which will deprive the elderly of rights rather than preserve them or give them more. At least I look forward at some point to reaching agreement and getting something good done in the area of the elderly. And I thank you for today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209161951	Thank you very much to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. No one else wishes to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209162008	The negotiations have been opened. The first to speak is the Minister for Health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209162034	Thank you for that, President. This proposal deals with an issue which is absolutely fundamental to all of us: the right to life and the right to say goodbye to the life to which we have the right. There are many things that are uncertain for all of us. Nobody knows how to get out of here. However, there are opportunities to give a greater degree of individual right to how one can imagine that with dignity, according to how one defines it oneself can come from here. That is actually what this proposal is about, namely about the right of elderly people to opt out of revival attempts. The proposal requires the government to submit a legislative proposal to amend health legislation by the end of this year at the latest. It is a proposal which gives abbreviated older citizens the right to opt out of revival attempts. We have actually discussed this earlier this year back in January, and we have also had negotiations in the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly with the parties of the Danish Parliament. Then we have had, and have, a health crisis that has caused part of the parliamentary work and part of the negotiating work to be postponed. However, I am also grateful for the fact that it is being retabled so that we can put it back on the agenda. The government's position remains a clear position and intention that older citizens should have the right to opt out of revival attempts when their hearts stop beating, if that is what they want. That is exactly what the proposal here is about. That is why I can only support purpose and purpose. It is also true that today's legislation does not provide for the possibility that an ill old citizen who is not at the same time ill can be sure of being resurrected if a heart attack occurs. This is due to the rules of the Health Act that derogations from life-prolonging treatment and therefore also resuscitation at cardiac arrest only apply if there is a current course of illness or treatment from which the patient can actually opt out of treatment. Abolishing, among other things: Thus, resuscitation attempts are now tied up in a specific course of illness. And, of course, we have received guidance from the Patient Safety Board on resuscitation and selection of resuscitation attempts. That guidance is also mentioned in the motion for a resolution and it states that general ageing alone does not allow for opting out of revival attempts. This is what the applicable law is now. Therefore, it is also correctly described that if you want to change applicable law, you have to older law, and that is something you have to start doing. The guide therefore states that according to the law health professionals are always the law we have in Denmark, and if you want to change it, you have to change the law. That is what we are discussing today. As I have said, our position is clear and I believe that it is shared by the media, and I have also discussed it with several parties from many parties, namely that this law needs to be amended so that older citizens with a long life behind them will have the right, if they wish, to opt out of being resurrected when the heart stops beating. I believe that, as a society, we have a duty to respect when older citizens make the profoundly personal ethical decision if they believe that such revival attempts for them are not meaningful, but may rather risk resulting in damage to the body, brain and soul of an elderly person, who may actually want a cardiac arrest to be equal to the end of life. When, as older citizens, we reach a point in life where we are weakened by old age to a degree that makes us dependent on daily help for caring, caring and practical work, we must also be able to relate to the right to say goodbye to life when our heart naturally stops beating if that is what you want. That is why I must say that it is my clear intention to seek support for the establishment of a legal basis enabling older citizens to protect themselves from unwanted revival attempts, much like what is described in this proposal. Although, as I have said, the covid-19 put these debates on good elderly life on hold, we have been working on a model for opting out of revival, which takes into account the ideas and wishes that the parties made when we reached our first meetings, and in the discussions we have had bilaterally on the way, which we have also been able to read about in the media, and which we also have today. I really think it would make sense for us to meet at the negotiating table, and that is also an outstretched hand from me and an open door to negotiate exactly what is the intention of this proposal. Negotiations have been convened on 15 December, and I am looking for a broad political consensus. I do not think this is about party politics. A broad political consensus on a model could be a good thing. A proposal has also been issued for a model for opting out of resuscitation, in which the government's proposal appears. I must also say that I have also discussed this here with the Elders Case and the FOA, because these are some important parties and they are all parties, of course. There is, however, a key point that I would like to highlight, because I think it is important. Now I have talked about the elderly, and it is the elderly themselves who make the choice and that is absolutely fundamental. However, there are some staff who must make it happen and ensure that that choice is respected and that the wish is met. It should be borne in mind that very different staff can be in this situation. It is therefore a staff who will find themselves in a situation in which they should refrain from trying to revive a person whose heart has stopped beating, despite being able to do so. They are people who are trained, trained in and every day go to work to revive people, to save lives, and then they have to say in some situations: here it should not happen; here it is the desire of the person who is exposed to this, not to be revived, here the best care is taken by not resurrecting. After all, it is absolutely essential that the situation of the staff should be such that they are fully aware that the choice has been made by the person they face. It also has something to do with legal certainty. After all, these are decisions and actions that cannot be reversed, and therefore it is also important that there is complete clarity for staff. I also see that there is understanding and desire on the part of the parties, but it is just important for me to mention this. This also means that all relevant staff groups must and must have access to it if there is information about this opt-out of resuscitation. And they need to be updated, because it can be something you regret. You can have a position, and then you can take a few years, and then you can say: I do not want to do it anymore, I have changed my mind. And then you have the right to do it, because it's your own life. It must therefore be easily accessible to secure it, so that we do not risk error handling and minimise the risk of error. Who is this about? Of course, it is the staff at the nursing home, but they probably know the elderly and may have a good sense of the situation. But it's also the night shift in a nursing home and the municipal home nurse, and it's guard centres, ambulance paramedics, hospital staff and general practitioners. It's all that may not know the elderly as well as can suddenly be in this situation and need this information. It is therefore important that the citizen's opt-out of resuscitation should be respected, regardless of whether the heart stop occurs in the nursing home during a late night hour, in the ambulance, during hospital or elsewhere. It is very high on our agenda that there is clarity and legal certainty for staff so that they do not get into situations where they are insecure: what was really wanted by this person? Do you have to start the resuscitation attempt, or should you not? That is why, together with funding, we also need to ensure that a legal right to opt out of revival for the citizen is followed up by a system where it can also become a reality and where it is an information that can be easily and properly accessed in the personnel's professional systems, so that they have easy access to it in these critical situations where minutes and seconds are crucial. It is about the staff's professional systems, registers, etc. As far as this specific motion for a resolution is concerned, as I have said, the government is one hundred per cent in agreement with the authors of the Danish People's Party. As I said, we support the purpose and purpose of the resolution and I look forward to meeting for negotiations on Tuesday. We hope that we can find common ground on the model. The sooner we reach agreement, the sooner the Ministry can initiate legislative work and prepare for roll-out. This proposal also says that a legislative proposal must be tabled by the end of 2020. I do not know exactly when the proposal was written, but now it is today that we are dealing with it, and we cannot, therefore, legally, practically and technically, in an area like this where there is also an ethical emphasis and a need for us, of course, to get it completely in place so that there is no doubt, to complete it by the end of 2020. However, I recognise the eagerness of the proposers to adopt the legislative basis for introducing a right to opt out of resuscitation for older citizens, if that is their personal wish. Thank you for the floor, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209163153	Thank you. It was a bit of a promise, even the civil servants smiled and are ready for battle. Nevertheless, there are several brief comments on this debate. The first is from the rapporteur for the authors, Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209163210	Thank you very much. It is not because I am going to ask questions, because we have talked along the way. And I apologize for the fact that it says 2020, but it's like this corona has made 2020 disappear, so we're gonna take it again or something. But we have just been to a meeting with the Minister, where we talked about this and reached each other on some points, and I would like to thank him for that. It was a constructive meeting where there was sensitivity on the part of the Minister, and I hope, of course, that together with the rest of the Danish Parliament's parties you can nod to this, so that we can ensure that the doctors out there can help the elderly who sit and say: Well you could do this a few years ago; then you could get the doctor to write in the journal that you didn't want a resuscitation, because you were full of days. So I just want to thank you for the progress and I look forward to getting this thing started again.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209163310	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209163310-2	Me too. It is mutual, and I think that it is on such issues here that we must show the people's regime on its best side and say that we meet across different places. There are also plenty of discussions, and there must be, but these are major ethical issues which really need clarification, so I also hope that the parties will be involved. I hope that 2020 will not repeat itself over and over again, as Liselott Blixt said. On the contrary, I think that this year is far enough, so we are looking forward to getting started next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209163344	The next is Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209163348	Thank you. I'd like to sign for the Minister's speech, but I have a question. Because, as the Minister himself said, this has been discussed here in the Chamber before. It was back in January, and then there was broad support for the Danish People's Party's proposal, and the Minister then said back in January that the government would take the initiative to establish a legal basis so that it would be possible for citizens to secure against this kind of revival attempt, that is, that the government would take the initiative to establish a legal basis. It would be in January. Then there was a legislative catalogue here in connection with the opening of the Danish Parliament in October, and there was no legislative proposal. Why wasn't that when the minister promised it back in January?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209163434	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209163435	Well, there's a very clear explanation for that: After or up to the time I can't remember the dates exactly, but there about that treatment in the Parliament hall there were invitations to and meetings of the Ministry of Health and the Elders about this in order to make the agreement that could be translated into the law catalogue. We had to pause these negotiations just as much as the legislative procedure in the Parliamentary Chamber was paused when the epidemic hit. Now we have invited you again and hope that the parties not only show up but also show up and have an appetite to make an agreement so that we can ensure that this can become a reality. And then, of course, it will come to the legislative programme when it has been through consultations and the things that have to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209163533	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209163534	I'm sorry, Minister, I think it sounds a little like a bad excuse that now there's been a corona epidemic. I fully agree that it draws bills, but there are plenty of other bills in the law catalogue • things that have found their way to the law catalogue • and therefore it wonders. I just think that the Minister may owe Parliament an explanation as to why it has not actually come along. So I should like to ask you this quite clearly: has it been discussed in the context of the financial law negotiations, that is to say, that a legal basis and funding should be provided?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209163611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209163612	Not familiar to me. Not familiar to me. The thing was, we met for negotiations. We didn't come to an agreement. We tried to see, by various means, whether we could reach an agreement. That was not possible, and that is why, when the negotiations had not been concluded, we could not put it in the legislative catalogue. Now we are again trying to appeal to and hope that the parties will be ready to reach an agreement so that we can reach a settlement which we can translate into a law. And it is perfectly normal procedure to negotiate there first and then legislate there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209163646	The next is Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209163650	Thank you. It has been a long and tough battle for the Danish People's Party in terms of creating action in this area, so I would like to sign over from the Minister and say thank you. As rapporteur, I am used to scolding the Minister when the Minister does not do well enough. But when there is action and the Minister listens to our desire for the right of the elderly to choose their own revival, it is incredibly positive. So I would like to thank you for that. There is another part that I would also like to ask the Minister, because it is clear that things have been postponed in the Assembly because of corona, also in relation to this motion for a resolution, which says 2020, so I would like to ask when such a bill can come into force. What is the time perspective? What is the Minister thinking there?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209163747	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209163747-2	Then I think there are two of us who are used to being reproached at the Minister by the Danish People's Party's older rapporteur, because I am used to that too, namely that we are being reproached. That is why I also thank you very much for your comments, because there must be room for political disagreement and there must be no doubt about it. That is how it is in a political arena like the one we are in here. But there must also be room for listening to each other and finding solutions. That's why we're here. The timetable I propose we discuss on Tuesday. It's about what our lawyers are assessing. Law programmes are usually in the year wheel, which means that when they can be reached, they must be on. We have no interest whatsoever in training anything. If this becomes possible in the next session, it will probably be in the autumn, i.e. as soon as the Folketing meets in the next session.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209163844	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209163846	I understand this is what we're going to talk about next week. But I think it is probably on the basis of negotiations on good living for the elderly. Or is it a separate track in relation to the residual pool we have around the good old life? How does the Minister see it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209163914	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209163914-2	Let's just start here from Parliament's platform, but otherwise I imagine we're doing it over at the Ministry where we're negotiating. My suggestion is that we solve this problem and solve a few other problems at the same time, as we sit there, with the unfortunately limited pool that is in relation to the good elderly. For it has gone for other purposes as a dementia trade plan and other.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209163942	Then I would like to thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. I understand that we are going further in the preparation of the new proposals, which are now under way. The first rapporteur is Mrs Birgitte Vind from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209164002	Now I can see that the Minister cleaned up after himself, so I do not have to do that; it is just in order to find out the right order here in terms of despriting. The President-in-Office of the Council, it is always an advantage to clean up the place when you leave). We'll do that in the future. Thank you for the floor. And special thanks to the Danish People's Party for sticking to this very, very important issue. We in the Social Democratic Party are very concerned that everyone can be guaranteed a dignified end to life, and this proposal once again highlights it. I will also hurry to sign for the commitment from the Danish People's Party to seemingly support the model that has just come from the Ministry today. We can back up the intentions of the proposal of course. We are deeply concerned about guaranteeing the right of elderly sick citizens to have a much greater influence on the end of their own lives and thus also a dignified death. But what is crucial in this whole discussion is that we have to create a clear legal position, of course, for the elderly sick fellow citizens, but also for our staff in the care of the elderly and health care, so that they do not have to take this decision as to whether an elderly person should be resurrected. They simply must not be in any doubt, and it must be proved afterwards that it was the elderly themselves who had rejected the resurrection attempt. So we should simply also have a setup in which the citizen's wish is supported by a register which may be linked to the professional systems. It must therefore ensure that the opt-out is actually respected and that the relevant employee groups are in no doubt at all whether they can fail to try to revive an elderly citizen. So I would just like to finish by saying that I am very much looking forward to the forthcoming negotiations on the issue that has now come. And it is also my hope that, in the further reading of the committee, we will be able to reach agreement on a report text in which we agree that we will, of course, introduce a right not to be revived by means of a legislative amendment, perhaps in the forthcoming legislative resolution. We will now see how quickly this is going to go but, of course, also that we will allocate the necessary funds to it. I should also like to welcome this bill from the Radical Left's health and elderly rapporteur and say that he supports the line taken by the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209164226	Thank you. There are no brief comments. So welcome to Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209164242	Here we are again. We are dealing first with a motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party on the right of elderly citizens to opt out of revival attempts. The motion for a resolution addresses the issue that the new guidance of October 2019 on resuscitation and revival attempts has sneaked into an inappropriate state of affairs, namely that older citizens must be revived, even if they have previously indicated that they do not want revival. We have dealt with a resolution earlier this year with the same objective: to guarantee the right of elderly citizens, who are full of days, to opt out of revival attempts. First of all, let me sign for the insistence and stubbornness of the Danish People's Party. Our elders have the right to a dignified death, and if you are an elderly person who has lived his life in good and evil, you must also have the opportunity to influence how to get out of here in a dignified way. There is no recipe or one size fits all when one speaks of a worthy death, for death has many faces, and it happens that the heart stops beating of itself and life runs out because it is the time. And everyone must ask themselves whether it is not reasonable to let nature go its course, so that one can die in peace without necessarily being resurrected. We in the Left believe this, and I would like to state here that we can support the Danish People's Party's proposal. Back in January there was also broad agreement to support the proposal, and the Minister for Health and the Elderly said then, and I quote: 'Therefore I must say from the outset that the government fully supports the purpose and purpose of the proposal. The Minister went on to say: "The government would therefore like to take the initiative to establish a legal basis to enable citizens to secure against such revival attempts. Now we are standing here with the government's legislative catalogue, and I certainly can't find a bill that points in that direction, and of course it wonders. We have been called to a few negotiating meetings in the Ministry on the good elderly life, where the problem has also been discussed, but that was before the coronalockdown back in March, and since then everything has stalled or at least almost stalled, because today at 8 a.m. 14.38 we received rapporteurs an invitation to negotiations and a note on the right to opt out of revival attempts at cardiac arrest. Exciting that the government now with the gun for the chest I had almost said responds, especially in view of the fact that we have previously moved the minister for calls for older negotiations. But it has not moved anything until now here a short time ago, i.e. kl. 14.38, where the Minister broke months of radio silence. I don't know if anyone remembers this commercial where the dog eats the lottery ticket, to which Dad notes: Dad is not angry, Dad is disappointed. And that is exactly how I actually feel about the sudden summoning of the Minister for Health and the Elderly, here a little before we are going to deal with the proposal from the Danish People's Party here in Parliament: Mother is not angry, mother is disappointed. Because that initiative could have been taken a long time ago instead of here a few hours before we have to discuss it in the Assembly. Just to pick up: The Left can support the guidance for resuscitation, so that older people who are full of days and who do not have a disease problem may opt out of resurrection attempts. And I look forward to reading the note that the Minister has sent to us rapporteurs, and I look forward to sitting at the negotiating table as well. And then I feel a little bit better late than never. We are also looking forward to the bill promised by the government back in January. Is this where we're going to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209164639	Thank you. Then I'm gonna pull out of here while the sosu assistants get ready. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209164653	Thank you. What really happened to the times, I think, sometimes when we accepted that you do not necessarily die of illness, but die because you are full of days? I am sorry that we have made death a bureaucratic medical project that every citizen has to decide on. Because the truth is that most of us don't want to deal with how we get out of here at least not right now. But with new technologies we can actually save a lot of people, and as we save lives, we also prevent some from getting out of here naturally. And it has left a need for some to ask to be exempted from the use of a heart start if you suddenly fall with a heart attack. I agree with the proposer that that option should be available. But I have also seen in practice that it is easier said than done. That is why I also recognise the need for each of us to be able to decide how far we want technology to go in relation to the order of nature. I am in favour of the treatment testament and therefore also of the citizens' ability to take their own position at the time when it is relevant. We agree with the intentions, but I have also noted that the Minister and the rapporteur have come together for a solution and that negotiations are being called for on Tuesday. So what I have to do right now, I can see, is go down and tick my calendar. And I would just like to thank the Danish People's Party for resubmitting the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209164854	Thank you very much to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. In a moment, we shall welcome Mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten. Kirsten Normann Andersen Is there anything else I have to do while I'm here?). It looks professional. Welcome to sir. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209164914	Thank you for that, President. I shall confine myself to stating that for once I have managed to get ahead of Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, because I have been in for a calendar statement that we are going to a meeting here on Tuesday at 9 a.m. 17. But otherwise, like many of the other rapporteurs, I would also like to say that it is quite obvious that we support this proposal because, of course, it is a fundamental right that citizens should have the right to opt for treatment. should have a heart attack. There is, of course, a difference in relation to what it is like with the life testament, which also offers an opportunity in relation to what is happening here. It is precisely about having the right to choose it, even if you are not inevitably dying, but are capable and simply renounce the opportunity to be revived. And that is, of course, absolutely fundamental. Several organisations have drawn attention to both the Elders' case and the Ethics Council have also stressed that this is something that should be possible and therefore we can also fully support the intention of the proposal. As other rapporteurs have also mentioned before, it is clear that what has been mentioned in the motion for a resolution, in other words, that it should be done by 2020, will hardly reach us. But there I can hear that there is also acceptance among the proposers that when we do not then the crucial thing is that we get it done now. And I think there is broad support for that. I have also just looked at the draft, which I think is very sensible. What is crucial is that we have a model, both where citizens have the opportunity to choose it and where there is also a good and transparent solution for the staff who have to implement that decision. And that seems to me to be the case with the possibility that lies, and I can also say that both the Elders Case and the FOA support it. The only small objection I have in relation to what I have seen is that I can see that it is only when you are 60 years old that you get the opportunity to opt out of treatment where it was originally possible to opt out of it at the age of 18. However, we must take this into account in the negotiations on the legislative proposal, because I find it difficult to see why there should be that age limit, that is, why it should not be a right that all citizens can have when they become capable and able. But we must look at that in the negotiations. As I said, we support the motion for a resolution, with the reservation, of course, that it cannot be achieved by 2020, but we fully support the intentions of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209165210	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Per Larsen, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209165228	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for submitting the proposal again. We Conservatives support the proposal. We are all entitled to a dignified life, not least a dignified life for the elderly. And, of course, it must be possible to renounce resuscitation if you have reached a very advanced age and are affected by a heart attack, just as you have the opportunity to renounce cancer treatment if you do not want to receive cancer treatment. Fortunately, we have the prospect of getting really old. Life expectancy is rising. Significantly fewer people die, for example. blood clots today than they did years ago, because better and more effective treatments have come and many chronically ill are better treated and more well regulated because of new and better medications than before etc. Therefore, more people also reach an old age, and there is a need for you, as long as you are capable, to be able to opt out of it if you have reached an old age and become tired of life. It certainly does not have to be extremely complicated or extremely expensive. It is the case that when you come to an elderly centre or a care centre today, you are typically very old and weakened, and your wishes should be met. We are, of course, in favour of the work of the committee. And here it must be possible for us to make a model that ensures that, as an elderly person and as a weakened person, you have your last wishes fulfilled and that they do not want to be overheard or overlooked. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209165409	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209165429	Thank you so much. If, as an elderly person, you have a wish that if you fall down with a heart attack, a brain hemorrhage or something else that causes you to die, then of course you must have a free choice to choose not to be revived. It's self-evident. I understand that that is the position. In fact, I have talked to quite a lot of people who have the clear opinion that when you reach a certain age, life must be worth living and that you do not want to lie down and possibly be a vegetable or be severely hampered by the fact that you may have some very large physical impairments, as a result of having either a cardiac arrest, a cerebral hemorrhage, or whatever else it may be. That is why I was actually quite happy when I saw this proposal. I think it is a very good idea that you can of course choose it yourself if you want you not to be revived if you die when you reach a certain age. Then let it be said. Of course, many good things have been said by the other rapporteurs in this area in the New Citizens' Party, we also support this motion for a resolution. I could also hear from the Minister that this is something that is being incorporated, which is being initiated, and I think that is only very positive, in other words that we also have a free choice in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209165601	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one from the Liberal Alliance is present, and then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209165616	Thank you very much. I would like to start by thanking all the parties and, above all, the Minister. It's nice that we can make some appointments every once in a while. I'm really glad about that, because this has been something that has worried me so much from the first time I got a letter from a doctor who told me that there was a problem with the fact that you were not allowed to write in the journal ^ which you had been able to write for a very, very many years that the elderly didn't want to resurrect. The doctor in question actually had a huge problem, and there we realized that there had apparently been a revision. The Patient Safety Management Board had revised the guidance on resuscitation and selection of resuscitation attempts, and it entered into force on 1 November 2019, and already then I took it up and said that we need to change this. Of the same opinion were also many others: the Older Case, various patient associations, the nurses and the Medical Association, yes, no one was actually opposed. Everyone could see that this was something you had to look at if someone is full of days and even if they have no diseases. Today, fortunately, you can say no if you have a disease, that is to say you do not want treatment, but if you are now just old and full of days, and now you dare not set an age, but it can be 99 years, without failing anything and sitting there saying you don't want to be revived, then there are indeed health professionals who, because there is a law that says you have to, can be held accountable if they don't. That is why it was so important that both doctors and other health professionals have been able to get out of this by saying that now we know what the needs of the elderly are. Getting older makes a lot of sense, and we have talked a lot about it, as Mr. Peder Hvelplund mentioned whether to say it at the age of 18. The question then is, of course, whether, when you are 18 years old, you should be able to say: when I get old, I do not want to be revived. I can't even say that when I'm 55, because I don't know how I'm gonna feel when I'm 80 years old. But the opportunity must be there, and that is why I think that 60 years is quite a good age compared to it. Or maybe, sir. Peder Hvelplund felt that one should be allowed to say that one does not want to be revived, whatever age one was, but it is actually something that we have gone through with the Ethical Council that had a major debate on it. Because there are actually a lot of people who say: I don't want to be revived. The problem is then just in relation to the privateman out there at City Hall Square, for example. that if someone gets a breadcrumb in his throat, you don't try to help him. Because they say, "Well, he's lying there, and there's no resurrection." That's why you don't do anything. That is one of the reasons why you say that you should, of course, try those things. It may be that the Heimlich method would help to get the crumb up, and then he could breathe, and then there was nothing with the heart or any other thing, and that was why they said no to ordinary people of all ages could say no to resuscitation. For me, it has been incredibly important to ensure that we have a dignified death, and I will continue to fight for that. I was very pleased when I tabled an amendment to the effect that future administrators could also help help a parent who had had dementia. I was really glad that when we talked about coercion against inhabile, we got a treatment testament, and I'm really glad that we got through with section 25 of the Health Act. 2, which allows you to say no to help, to treatment and actually get medication that makes you sleep in if it is. So this is still something that doesn't mean you have to lie down and suffer, but you can have a worthy death. So I look forward to us making a report, if we can get a date from the Minister when a meeting has been held here next week; then we can wait for it and together get a write that we can all agree on and then find out when it can be put into effect. At any rate, these are my thoughts on the way in which we can continue to do so when everyone agrees. So these should be my words and thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209170121	There's just one question from Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209170122	Thank you. First of all, I would like to sign up to the rapporteur for the work that has been done in relation to this. We fully agree with that in the Enhedslisten. In relation to that debate in 18 years or 60 years' time, and we are going to have to take it again in the negotiations.I just think that if you are of age and you are capable, then you can have the opportunity to choose or opt out of revival if you become ill-advised. 'Cause you can get indisposed before you're 60 years old. After all, there is already the criterion that you must be caring, that is to say live in a foster home or have care in your own home. And so you can say that then age as such does not mean anything, that is, you can choose it at the moment you have become of age. You can also choose again if you change your mind whether you are 56 or 64 years old. And that's why I can't quite understand why you have to put in the 60-year age limit. Why is it not said that it is when you are of age and capable that you can make that decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209170228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209170229	You can make a life testament, and you can do a lot of other things that do something if it's that you're getting indisposed. That's what you can do now. This is about abbreviated age. So these are two very different things, and if, at 18, you have to say something about what happens when you're old, then the question is, when you do it at 18, you might just forget that you've done this. And who decides when you're gonna be old? If you fall around at 75, is there someone who says, "Well, he said at 18 that he didn't want to be revived?" It could have been that a lot had happened in that time. I didn't want to take a position on it until I started feeling old and thought that maybe now is the time for me to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209170310	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209170311	I don't think I would either. I don't think most 18-year-olds would. Well, at the age of 18, you still feel like you're almost immortal and don't take that kind of thought into account. But some may. There may be some who have experienced it in the family or for other reasons want to make that choice at that time. And I just can't understand why they shouldn't have that opportunity. 'Cause it's not like we're gonna have to put us to the judge about when to do it. I guess it has to be an authoritative citizen who makes that choice himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209170344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209170344-2	You can make a choice with a treatment testament. In there you can write that if you become incompetent, you will not have treatment. So we have the opportunity to do so today. Those are the people who have no chance of saying no. And for those who don't know what can be done: that's when you know what you're doing. When you're incompetent, you don't know what you're doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209170403	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209170420	The debate is open and the first is the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209170449	Thank you very much, President. The Left has tabled a motion for a resolution requiring the government to draw up a new German strategy by 1 June 2021. From the comments made on the motion for a resolution, it appears that the Left believes that there is an unsolvable potential in closer cooperation with Germany, particularly in relation to trade. One can say that in a way the Left kicks in an open door, because of course Denmark must give Germany a very high priority, and the government already does. Germany is a large and important neighbour, our largest export market, on which a great many Danish jobs depend. We have a close historical relationship in the border country and Germany is one of our closest partners in European and foreign policy. But should a completely new strategy be needed, based on the German strategy of the former Left Government? The government does not think so, and after all it is the government which conducts foreign policy. In order to increase trade with Germany, which I understand is one of the most important arguments behind the motion for a resolution, the government has already launched a large number of initiatives, for here the potential is really huge, both before the covid-19, and as part of the great effort we have launched with a broad majority in the Danish Parliament with the adoption of the stimulus packages, the export and investment package and export packages I and II, to take some examples • to ensure the restart of Danish exports and foreign investment in Denmark and Denmark. We have among other things. employed export advisors in the fields of water, the environment and e-commerce. In addition, about 20 per cent. of the funds in the growth pool from export package I gone to Germany. Specifically, funds have been allocated to five green projects in the water, environment and energy sectors, and this is something that primarily involves small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, we have increased efforts to attract German investment to Denmark. Denmark also contributes actively to Germany's green conversion in this way, which also benefits Danish jobs. This is happening, among other things. through the export scheme for energy, which will help to spread Danish energy-friendly solutions. Germany, like Denmark, has adopted a series of stimulus packages during the covid-19 crisis. Packages have a total volume of at least 130 billion. EUR 2020 and 2021, and it is expected that about one third will go to the transformation of the economy, focusing on three areas in particular: energy, climate, environment and digital and health. Together with the EU's recovery funds, the German stimuli packages offer a unique opportunity to spread Danish sustainable and green solutions. Of course, we must take advantage of this and it is clear that it is companies that have to enter into orders. However, we in the government will be ready to help with advice and measures to help companies access the attractive markets in the European Union. So for Danish companies it is the government's view that there is no need to stop and remove focus from the good work that is in full swing. On the contrary, companies need us to continue with our noses in the tracks, implement the partnership and the many good ideas we have developed together. Another argument in the comments to the motion for a resolution is that a new strategy should strengthen cultural ties between Denmark and Germany. And of course the government fully agrees that the cultural ties with Germany and the conditions in the border country are a crucial part of the glue in Denmark's close relationship with Germany and something we all appreciate. At least we do it and I do it personally in good cooperation with our German friends. The whole of 2020, that is, the year that is running out, has stood in the sign of friendship. 2020 has been appointed Danish-German Cultural Friendship Year. A number of activities have been planned in Denmark, Germany and the border country precisely to strengthen cultural ties. I am aware that part of the events have been cancelled because of the covid-19, but the government, together with Germany, has prioritised that many of the activities must be carried out when the covid-19 hopefully allows it in 2021, and I am really glad that we can, because it is important to mark out the close cultural ties we have with each other in our friendship years too. I would like to appeal to us to use our powers a little more directly in cooperation with our German friends instead of what I fear will be a one-sided Danish desk exercise to create a strategy 2.0. The motion for a resolution argues that Denmark needs German goodwill in the EU. With all due respect, I do not want to put it as humbly as the Left does. Denmark needs Germany in the EU and also globally, but Germany also needs Denmark. Therefore Denmark and Germany are close partners and allies, for example. in the work of safeguarding human rights and the multilateral system. I myself have very good cooperation with my German Foreign Minister colleague, Heiko Maas, and with my fellow European Minister, Michael Roth. I have had the opportunity to meet both frequently in Germany, Denmark and Brussels, and I am in regular contact with them. Precisely because Denmark and Germany need each other, work on a Danish-German declaration of friendship has already been initiated on Danish initiative. The declaration is still under discussion, but I expect it to set out a number of common Danish-German points of reference for the development of our relations, particularly in terms of political cooperation, cultural exchange and international relations and cooperation. And I hope that we can present the declaration in the very near future. The government fully shares the Left's ambition of a good and close relationship with Germany politically, economically and culturally. In fact, I believe and hope that almost everyone does. The question is how we do it best and most effectively. And in relation to Germany, strengthened cooperation in many ways and areas is in full swing. This, of course, does not exclude the fact that we can further strengthen our efforts. We are very open to any reinforcement here. The government would also like to take a closer look at this, but we think that concrete action plans in areas where they are needed and in direct cooperation with our German friends, with whom we have a very good relationship. In view of the work already under way, the government does not believe that a new German strategy is needed here and now. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution, but we look forward to the European Committee's handling of the issue and to lively discussions on the Danish-German relationship, which is very good. We are also looking forward to new ideas that can strengthen the relationship even more, because that is something that the government will always appreciate. Germany is and remains one of our most important ally partners. It's our neighboring country. We have a history, a culture and a community with Germany, which we from Denmark also value highly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209171217	There is a question from Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209171220	I would like to thank the Minister for her reply in the first place. It sounds interesting to have a declaration of friendship, but if the Minister then says in the same breath that a concrete action plan is important, could the Minister say something more about at this stage what is involved in concrete action plans as a follow-up to the friendship declaration and how much money the government has set aside to meet what will then be in the friendship declaration?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209171250	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209171251	Thank you. It is, of course, a declaration which has been initiated on Danish initiative and is still under discussion, so it has not yet been adopted. We're still negotiating that with the Germans. When we then agree on the final declaration I think the idea in itself is really good, that is, that we make such a declaration of friendship, even when we have had our cultural friendship year, and with the close ties we have between Denmark and Germany, not least in the border country we will see how we implement it afterwards. But this is one of the many activities that we have with Germany and which is something that we in the Danish Government very much appreciate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209171327	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209171328	Thank you. I understand the word 'friendship' and that it is being negotiated, but what I cannot really find out is what is in that friendship declaration. So what are the specific points where action is now being taken? What is it that should strengthen cooperation in the area of such a declaration? Or is it just talk of good cooperation and not concrete action? For then we really have a good example of the fact that we have a motion for a resolution which calls for concrete reinforcement on a number of points on which the Minister chose not to comment at all and then maybe get a statement which is just a headline, but which cannot be patterned, as the Foreign Minister said, a concrete action plan afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209171414	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209171415	Thank you, President. We have a good dialogue with the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs about that statement here. Its purpose is, of course, to mark the close relationship and also to identify a number of areas where cooperation can be further developed. So it is a plan of action in this sense, both politically, economically and culturally, and that applies to the border region, which, of course, must also be at the heart of the dialogue on the declaration, and I hope, as I said, that it can be presented in the near future. I think that all these elements are really important. So we are fully engaged in the work; we do not need a new strategy for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209171450	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209171453	I guess the minister didn't think he'd get away from me. I do not understand why the government is standing up and saying that a resolution cannot be adopted. Well, I know that this is the case at Christiansborg; there the government will never agree to a motion for a resolution. But we should, of course, be able to make a joint report or do something together. Let that be what it is going to be, but we are not a year-old here, and we know that it sounds fantastic with all those statements, but it is very little that institutionalises cooperation in this way. Does the government have any thoughts on how to create more institutionalized cooperation with Germany? I am thinking, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. It does not have to be, and it is not certain that the Germans will, but I can see an idea here that the Left is making a proposal which, in my view, must bear towards something that institutionalises us more in relation to each other, because both parties can benefit greatly from it. Does the government have any position on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209171613	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209171615	Well, the government has the attitude that I also believe, sir. Jens Rohde shares the view that we want the closest possible cooperation with Germany in the political, economic and cultural fields, and we have many leads. I would also like to say in person that it was no coincidence that my first visit as a newly appointed Foreign Minister went to Germany shortly after I had a meeting with my colleague Heiko Maas in Villa Borsig, that is to say the official representation where foreign ministers are received in Germany and we laid the foundations for very close political cooperation. So this declaration of friendship is a good framework; I do not think we should neglect the importance of it. I think it should be driven by, as Mr. Jens Rohde himself is talking about, the desire on both sides to look at where to deepen the cooperation even more. It must include companies and cultural institutions and I would like to see us strengthening even more. So I think that the thing about creating such a large institutional framework around it is probably not what brings more progress in cooperation. But all the ideas I think we should put on the table. And then I think it is a good idea to discuss it widely in the Committee on European Affairs and to have ideas on how we can strengthen the ties even more.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209171723	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209171725	But governments are passing away, and so are human beings. That is why I am talking about a more institutionalized form of cooperation, because the Minister for Foreign Affairs is absolutely right in that Germany also needs us in these years, for the sole reason that the weighting of votes in the Council has been changed by brexit. And there can be fantastic goodwill and capital out of both economic, economic and political. That is why I think the Minister should open the ball and open the mind to a more integrated, institutionalized form of cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209171808	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209171810	I'd like to say to Mr. Jens Rohde, that I have a very open mind, and I will with kiss-hand accept all good ideas on how we can strengthen the cooperation between Denmark and Germany. From my chair, in other words from foreign and European policy, we have very good cooperation with them, as I described in my reply both formally and informally and which is not institutionalised but actually works very effectively. And then we make this declaration of friendship, and I don't think we should neglect such a thing; I think it is of great importance. We know how important the Copenhagen-Bonn declarations have been for the border country, i.e. the declarations made in March 1955, as far as I remember, on minority protection, rights and so on. So I think we should build on our good examples and also on statements and then look at other ideas that I will be very open to.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209171900	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Møller, the Social Democratic Party, when the Minister has done his duty to scrub off before the next one comes up on the platform. Thank you, Minister. Here you go, sir. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209171922	Thank you. There should of course be no doubt that we in the Social Democratic Party also consider that the cooperation that we have and must have with Germany is exceptionally important. Fortunately, we already have the cooperation, and we have had it through a long history. It can be said that this year we have suffered from a new situation. In fact, we should have celebrated our bordering against Germany, but part of it has been postponed until next year. So there I think we have actually come a very long way precisely in the cultural field. If we look at some of the funds allocated to the corona and our export industries, 20 per cent goes. This is because Germany is vitally important to us as a trading partner. As the Foreign Minister mentioned, we also have close political cooperation on this. Perhaps that is what is meant by kicking in an open door, that is to say that we are actually very far ahead, both in terms of some concrete measures and some initiatives for some friendship that are linked to this. We are, of course, open to discussing whether there are further opportunities to strengthen this, and we will therefore be putting forward a report on what some of the elements that have emerged here can be included. However, if we are to accept the premise in the motion for a resolution, which is that it should be implemented in the summer of 2021, the timing is basically not very good, understood in the sense that right now we are in the middle of a Corona situation where, I think, it is very much a matter of making some concrete initiatives, which we are doing in the form of export packages that are, and of getting the cultural part of something that we will not be able to implement this year. And we must also keep our heads above water and find out what status is, not only in Denmark, but also in Germany, when we come on the other side of a vaccine that actually works. It may well be that some things are revealed here, but I certainly do not think it is timely care to start making demands at this stage that a strategy for this should be drawn up. That is why we in the Socialist Group cannot recommend the resolution, but we are suggesting that we have a report in which we are clearly open to looking at whether there is any of this that we can intensify beyond what the government has already proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209172216	There are questions, and first it is from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209172219	I would like to ask the Socialist rapporteur something about the fact that the Left recognizes that their first German strategy, which they did, has not worked effectively. We didn't get people to take anything more German. On the contrary, there are fewer than when their strategy was drawn up. There's no climate talk in that strategy. Nor is there any plan for us to have the night trains back between Germany and Denmark, and it can be said that those who long transport pigs down to the column workers underpaid column workers in Germany were also a good idea to stop. Well, there are a lot of good ideas, some things to talk about. A third thing could be the border barriers which, after all, are between Denmark and Germany. At least it was worth discussing. I do not know whether this should be a strategy, but the problems lie there and the strategy that was developed under the bourgeois government does not work. So it is a good idea to say: what can work then?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209172329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209172330	I think it is really interesting in relation to that growth pool that we have created under the export package. There is just a very large part of this which has a green aim, so I am in the same vein, and that is also what is part of the policy already now, that part of the trade that we will see in the long term will have a much greener profile than what we have been used to at an earlier stage. But that is also why, when some of the other things are mentioned, I am opening up the door so that we can make a report about this which might clarify it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209172402	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209172404	Just one little detail: we weren't supposed to celebrate the border this year. We should celebrate the good relationship we have in the border country and the democratic way in which we established a border 100 years ago, and it is also worth celebrating, I think, because it is actually a democratic invention which has so much been traced around the world and which many are looking at. We have so peacefully and well a border country, and if we did not know where the line went, it was not easy to see where Denmark ended and where Germany began, and vice versa, because one is so well integrated. And I think that is worth highlighting.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209172443	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209172444	It's noted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209172449	Then it's Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209172452	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur, whom I can understand would like to have some concrete steps in terms of improving cooperation. I would like to ask what concrete steps the Socialist rapporteur thinks we should take. For example, is it... something in relation to the border region, which the Foreign Minister also mentioned, and what is going to happen in the border region? So I would like to hear what concrete actions the Social Democracy will contribute to the report we are going to write, including how they build on the strategy decided by the previous government in 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209172528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209172529	It can be said that I have also mentioned some of those specific measures here, in other words, in relation to investment packages, export packages and so on. This part will have some concrete agreements with Germany when it comes to investing funds that way around. But otherwise, some of what we need to do in connection with the report must be to find out what concrete steps we can take.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209172600	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209172601	That didn't make me much smarter. It is therefore the export measures mentioned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs that are sufficient for the social democracy in relation to the way in which cooperation between Denmark and Germany could be further developed. I would just like to say that I think it is really a pity to hear that the Socialist rapporteur has not even thought about what is going to happen if we do not immediately think that a German strategy is needed. Does this mean that the Social Democrats think that it is fine as things are and that there should be no further action?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209172637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209172637-2	If you have listened to what the Foreign Minister has said, I think that a number of points were specifically raised, both in political terms, in economic terms and in terms of trade and in terms of culture, where these areas of cooperation are and must be in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209172658	Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209172659	Thank you to the rapporteur. I heard the Secretary of State's speech, but I didn't have time to ask him questions. I'm so glad I have the opportunity now. I hear the rapporteur say that it is not due diligence to draw up a German strategy. I would just say that that is what we must do, and that is in the light of brexit, where we see a strong German-French alliance that we must try to link ourselves to. And how can we take for granted that Germany just needs us? A partnership is mutual, and we need to think forward and look at the green potentials • The Fehmarnlink, etc. Does the rapporteur think that this is just happening on its own? And what is so timely care?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209172744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209172745	What was actually the starting point was that we are in the middle of a corona challenge, not just in Denmark, but in general in the rest of Europe and also globally. There was the starting point to say that we may have to get out on the other side, and have our heads above water, before there are some things that need to be revealed when it comes to what is possible in this. As I have said, I am referring to the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs described some of the cooperation that we have at the moment, but also some of the things that are in the pipeline, for some of the things that we want. So I'm not really so worried.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209172824	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209172825	A corona crisis is also an economic crisis, and it is precisely to Germany and the way we can ensure that we get goods sold and the economic wheels going. So that is precisely where we need to think strategically, or does the rapporteur also think that the economics just get started on their own?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209172848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209172848-2	No, but that is why I have also tried to stress that, in terms of both investment efforts and export promotion efforts, we have 20%. of our funds directly focused on Germany and that corresponds to quite a lot of money. So I actually think we've been trying to take care of that part.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209172911	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, Radical.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209172911-2	I'd decided I wouldn't say anything this time, but when mr. Henrik Møller says that we must now, just beyond the crisis and something like that, I cannot help thinking about it in such a historical context. What if, when we were standing at zero this year after the Second World War and in general after the crises we have been through in Europe, we had just said: we have to see now before we start to look beyond national borders. No, there is historical evidence to say that it is when you are in the midst of a crisis and in the midst of the great challenge that you have to meet. That's where you have to make your strategies. That is where we must create the new thing together with other countries. So we don't have to wait. This is where we're gonna start. It's due diligence, sir. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209173003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209173004	I guess that was more of a comment than it was a question. So, what is my starting point is that part of the funds we are actually channelling out now as growth initiatives, also in relation to exports. That is one of the things we are doing directly we are also trying to target part of in relation to Germany, and we are trying to think Germany very much into this part in relation to the whole green transition. What I am just trying to say with regard to the corona del is that I hear what is being said, but there are still some unresolved things afterwards, which it may be very nice to learn more when we get to the other side.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209173043	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209173044	It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. I should also like to say that, according to the Rules of Procedure, a comment can be made on the speech that has been made. You don't have to ask questions. The rapporteur can then comment on that comment. But it's all very fine. Everything the Secretary of State mentions is also fine. Well, no one can disagree with that. But that does not change the fact that there is a huge political capital and a huge economic capital to draw from, by having the courage to think it any longer and put it into a more institutionalised form. Are the Social Democrats against it, or do you have an open mind about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209173129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209173130	I think, as a Social Democrat, I have always had an open mind and been responsive to what is coming. And I think that when we come to draw up the report, it must be some of the things that are part of the talk we are going to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209173142	Then we thank the rapporteur and go further in the ranks of rapporteurs. The next one is sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209173201	What so far, I think, has been the most spectacular thing in this debate has been the discussion of what it really is that we are celebrating the hundredth anniversary of today's limit or what it was. No, what we celebrate the hundredth anniversary of is that after 56 years under German yoke Danish could return home to the country to which they belonged. And it is one of the many sorrows associated with the conquest of the Corona over the continent and the world that it has not been properly celebrated. But it says quite a lot about the Danish-German relationship of good and evil and the past many years fortunately most on well and yet. Because there have been many busted words south of the border when we have wanted to tighten border controls and attitudes on how we should adapt to various value-policy issues. On the other hand, with my ten years in the European Parliament, which I share with the majority in this House, I believe that we can all agree that some of those with whom we are not as Socialists, but which Danes have had the easier way of working with, and perhaps the easier way of coming to some kind of mutual understanding, are the German colleagues. That is why there is good reason to establish good links in the south, both historically, practically, economically and politically. One of the things I really welcome in the proposal that Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen and others have put forward. This is what we can do in Denmark alone. The fact that everything is going on in English today is a handicap when one considers how important a role politically and economically Germany and Germans play for Denmark. That is why I am very pleased that the proposal emphasizes that we need to do more to learn the German language and that we read German literature and, in general, give more priority to the thinking emanating from Germany. This is particularly true in the faculties of humanism and theology, as well as in primary and secondary schools. I think that is very good and necessary. And the fact that there must be an up-to-date strategy makes perfect sense. I do not even recognise the strange remark from the Enhedslisten that the former government's strategy should have failed. Well, we export, we have interaction • we have a lot of good experiences with Germany. Whether this is directly derived from the fact that in 2016 we got a real strategy, or whether it is due to a natural relationship, I do not know, but to say that it has failed, I think it is too strong an expression. The only critical thing I can say about this proposal is that it can give too clear an indication of Denmark's strategic priorities of its neighbours. It is no secret that we in the Danish People's Party are very fond of the Nordic Region. While the European Union is sleeping around in misery, it has to be said that there is a great deal that binds us together in the Nordic countries. Maybe that's why I'm just gonna give you a little sigh of my heart. Hopefully, if we can vote through this motion for a resolution and get an updated German strategy, then perhaps it was time that we also considered a genuine Nordic strategy. We have the Nordic Council, but it has become more or less a talking club. It might be interesting to consider as the EU Member States fall from what we can use the Nordic Region for. In the field of defence there is a great deal going on, and that would be natural, I think, also to have a strategy that is pointing in the north now that we agree to have someone pointing in the south. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209173609	There are a few questions, first from Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209173611	Thank you. I am delighted that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt found the Germans easier to work with. Then one might wonder why he always worked with the British who wanted to leave the European Union. But peace be to it. My good, best enemy. There are no literary or cultural contradictions with the Nordic countries and Germany. On the contrary, it might be that, by being closer together in the Nordic countries, we might have such a little more volume, a sense of interest in doing something more institutionalized with the Germans, perhaps a kind of Scandinavian-German Parliamentary Assembly. What did Mr. Morten Messerschmidt tell you that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209173703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209173704	I would like to start by saying that the rapporteur is historically absolutely right. If we take 1864, the only ones who came to the rescue of Denmark were the voluntary federations from Sweden and Norway, i.e. shooters etc. The British were lost, perhaps because Lehmann and Monrad were so idiotic not to ask the guarantee powers from the agreements of the first Schleswig-Holstein war before they entered the fairy tale, but already at that time it was the Nordic that filled a lot. Can it then be extended to the extent that we need to build a parliamentary structure for the Nordic countries and Germany? No, I don't think so. I think we are dealing here with very different situations. Our relationship with Germany is carried primarily by interests, it must be said. We have an interest in having a good relationship with Germany. Our relationship with the Nordic countries is a matter of heart: we share languages, we share culture to a large extent, and we have such an interaction with the Nordic countries, such a natural relationship with the Nordic countries, as it may not be possible to say immediately in relation to Germany.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209173813	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209173814	This is kind of funny, because I think that the Danish People's Party doesn't order anything but to say that the Swedes aren't really smart in virtually everything they do politically, but leave it alone. It is not, of course, such a structure as some common parliament that we should have that I am talking about. Well, I guess that sir... Morten Messerschmidt is so well versed in German and French politics that he knows about this German-French Parliamentary Assembly, which was signed a solemn treaty here a few years ago, and that is the more I thought about it. It is not just to deprive the Danish People's Party of any sovereignty.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209173858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209173859	I think I fully understood both the content and the purpose of that, sir. Jens Rohde said. I have to express it in this way that I think I have spent enough time with German parliamentarians and that I may long to sit with some Icelanders and Norwegians and other good people from the North.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209173914	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209173915	The rapporteur complained that I was negative about the old German strategy. I've seen that sir. Bertel Haarder has written many long presentations on Facebook. I read them because that was one long argument for us to have a new strategy. Sir. Bertel Haarder troubles a great many things that have not succeeded, and he writes between the lines that that strategy has actually had no effect, and I can hear that the rapporteur actually thinks so. I believe that when there are only 86 people studying German at the University of Copenhagen, Aarhus University and University of Southern Denmark, it is not exactly a success because it was something that the old government could have done something about, and that is something that the new government can also do something about. That is a small signal that we may not take things as seriously as we could politically. There are other things that are successful. As far as the border barriers are concerned, as Mr. Bertel Haarder also spends a lot of time on, and this is both in the Nordic Council and in the context of Germany, he has acknowledged that it is extremely difficult to remove border barriers, for example. for commuters and tourists. It's not just because of corona. I also believe that the rapporteur goes quite wrong when he says that the Nordic Council has become a talking club; on the contrary, the Nordic Council has managed to start working politically together on what is common to the Nordic countries and makes Nordic useful. I think that has taken a huge leap forward for the last 5-6 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209174047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209174048	I am sorry if I used an overly strong expression about the Nordic Council. I really want the Nordic countries to find a good way to work together. What I was a little provoked by, sir. Christian Juhl's side, it was that one should be able to read from the comments on the proposal that the previous strategy had failed. At least that is not how I read the remarks. Does that mean things couldn't be better? No, it certainly does not. I'm gonna do one of those things. say that the number of German students in universities is not necessarily what we need to focus on. I think that we should focus more on getting German knowledge into the primary schools, so that it becomes a natural language for Danish young people to be as natural as it is with English. English, or it's American, has almost become the world language. It is a pity that the language of such a proud and large and thoughtful nation as Germany, of which we have the privilege of being able to say that it is our neighbour, plays such a small role in primary and secondary schools. I think that's too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209174155	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209174156	It's there too, sir. Bertel Haarder goes on. There is also the fact that the exchange of students between Germany and Denmark is not very widespread. There are plenty of things that could be done. Out of respect for the proposers, I was just trying to mention some of the things that they themselves mark in their arguments that we should have a new Germany strategy. And it didn't work as intended. I remember it because I was a little critical at the beginning when you wanted to create a German strategy. There are so many other places you can make strategies for. Of course, you can make a lot of improvements in this area. Bertel Haarder himself, as chairman of the Committee on the Prevention of Frontiers in one year, together with the committee, to remove 13 border barriers in the Nordic countries in Germany none.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209174251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209174253	That in itself says something about where the naturalness is greatest. I don't think there were so many questions in it, and then I can just say to Mr. Simpson. Christian Juhl, that I hear good things about both Mr. Bertel Haarders and Mr. Christian Juhl's work in the Nordic Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209174312	Then it's Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209174315	Thank you to the rapporteur. I took note of the fact that the rapporteur mentioned Nordic co-operation, and I also believe that some innovation can be made in this and in the link with Germany. How does the rapporteur see that this can be strengthened? We have Northern Germany and Femern, and Denmark can become this bridgehead between the Nordics and Germany. How does the rapporteur see that it could be strengthened, who should be at the head of it, and how can it be done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209174350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209174350-2	I don't think anyone should be in the lead. I don't imagine having to create a new unit where there's, like, somebody who's in charge. I think Denmark has once offered Sweden to lead and take over the monarchy here and there. Of course, we are not going to get into that again. No, what I imagine is that, of course, in the forums that already exist, for example. The Nordic Council, or bilaterally, sees where we can coordinate more things. In my time in the European Parliament, at least quite often, I saw that Danish, Finnish and Swedish parliamentarians could not, of course, coordinate in relation to foreign policy and matters of value policy, etc., for Mr. Jens Rohde is quite right in saying that there are the Swedes a little bit to one side. But in relation to a great many economic conditions, environmental policy, foreign policy, etc. We saw the same thing, but we didn't really coordinate it. In fact, it was the same thing that happened in the Council of Ministers, and it would be healthy and in mutual interest if the Nordic countries were already thought in advance as the first place to coordinate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209174455	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209174456	Coordination also sounds more like administration of bureaucracy. Would it not be more appropriate if we had a vision of creating a common framework so that we could have harmonised more measures, for example? business promotion funds so that they crossed borders and so that we had exchanges between educational institutions and just got rid of having to coordinate so much?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209174521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209174521-2	I do not think that there will ever be no coordination. Many of the things mentioned by Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll will be areas which are regulated by the European Union, for example. We are currently in a situation where Finland, Denmark and Sweden are members, whereas Norway is the EEA, and Iceland, the Faroe Islands and Greenland each have their very special circumstances. So I think it's gonna be a mix of both coordinating and creating real own standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209174553	Thank you to the rapporteur. Morten Messerschmidt Then it is completely cleaned). Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde, Radical. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209174607	Thank you. You could say a lot about that, but I have to control my sense of humor. As far as naturalness is concerned, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt spoke of here from the platform, so let me tell you that Rapunzel was the loveliest child under the sun. When she was 12 years old, the witch locked her in a tower. It was in the woods. When Red Hood came into the woods, she met the wolf, but she wasn't scared at all, because she had no idea how bad it was. And near a large forest lived a poor woodcutter with his wife and two children. The boy's name was Hans, the girl's name was Grethe. One morning the Queen called on one of the hunters and said: "I will not see Snow White before my eyes, take her out into the woods, and kill her, and bring me her liver and lung. We all know the stories. The words have the lyrical sound of the children's rhymes: Rapunzel, Rapunzel let your hair fall down. Little mirror on the wall there, who's the fairest in this country? All the characters are part of our childhood. They are also part of our children's childhood, and they think they know them from Disney, so my children too, but they're the Grimm brothers. Only when I took my children on a Grimm education trip to Germany this summer did they realize where these figures are part of the children's first cultural education, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, comes from. After all, they are all shaped in Germany, more specifically in Teutoburger Wald about 100 km northeast of Cologne. It is a huge forest that is scary and dark, with cozy log huts and wild animals, and if you get lost, you'll probably never be found again. Forests have a huge cultural European significance. It is mentioned in history for the first time in the year 9 after Christ, when the great warrior Hermann cheated a superior Roman army and struck it back by hiding in the woods and using it for defense. And thanks to the Grimm brothers, the forest has become part of our children's universe and also our own. But Danish literature has also been of great importance in Germany. You can read this in the first volume of the Deutsche Museum. Here the Romanticist Friedrich Schlegel has a vivid description of Danish poetry, where he proves that Nordic literature turns the relationship between Danish and German romance upside down. And Kim Leine's novel The Prophets of the Eternal Fjord, Kristian Bang Foss' satirebook Death runs Audi and Christian Jungersen's factual novel about dementia, You disappear, and Erling Jepsen's • The Rendjysk farm is all translated into German. I can say that the black Danish sense of humor in these years is actually winning in Germany. So what am I gonna say with all this? I would like to say that our cultures are so integrated that we should make much more of it and that, in my view, cooperation with Germany should not just be measured up in the economy and agreements that we are working together on something, whether it is a train or what I know. No, it must be seen as a much larger integrated community, because we have so much to offer each other and have always had much to offer each other, even in spite of the hardships of history, as we all know. We don't use that actively enough. We can get a lot more out of that. There is a huge potential in it and, as I said earlier, looking at the development that the European Union is undergoing with brexite, with which the weighting of votes is differently distributed than they have been in the past, the usefulness of more integrated cooperation increases both for Denmark and Germany. What is important for me to say is that this cooperation must be based on cultural common denominators, because that is where it is going to be strong, and that is where we get beyond the passing of the government, and that people's moods are also passing away: right now it is something modern, so it is not, and it was once, and it wasn't. Ich bin deutsch, I'm German. Ich bin dänisch, I am Dane. I'm both. When I was a boy, I was afraid to tell you that I was half German. In fact, I did not dare to tell you that for the first many years I was a member of the Folketing, because it was not quite as cool and modern as you can say it is today. That is why I am talking about doing something that culturally binds us closer together. There is a huge value to be gained from it for both sides. I can only say on Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen's motion for a resolution now that I am about to finish that it has only one error and it is that it has not been made by me.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209175130	There is a question from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, who is probably in favour of Hans Christian Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209175142	I thought it was a nice introduction to both the brothers Grimm and other parts of German literature, and I would like to stress that I did not try to talk German literature down. I was just trying to say that when we choose to have a strategy south, maybe it would also make sense to have one north. And I'm sure I won't take Mr. Knox either. Jens Rohde's personal feelings of identity from him, but maybe mention that they are more personal than they are general. 'Cause sir... Jens Rohde find a concept and similar expression, like when we talk about a Nordic spirit, a Nordic sound and a Nordic community that should cover up some Danish-German?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209175228	I guess I could find that. But if it's going to hit the same linguistic sound, I don't know. In fact, there are two words that are very much connected to me, and that is homeland and heimat. They are expressed differently, but they have exactly the same meaning. Homeland is more than home. I think so, sir. Morten Messerschmidt can identify with. That's very much what you are. It creates a feeling, a room, an identity. I am quite sure that you can nod to it in the Danish People's Party. It's exactly the same feeling you get as a German when you say heimat. It's not your house, it's not just your town, it's your homeland. I do not know if I understood the question correctly, but now it has been said.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209175341	Thank you. Before mr. Mr Morten Messerschmidt has the floor, I would like to say that it is sometimes a little difficult for the President to find out whether the rapporteurs are just paused or whether they have finished saying something about it. Jens Rohde everything. But now it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, who has something to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209175355	There is no doubt that there has been a linguistic mix of heim and home and the other Nordic languages. It is not really an attempt to talk down the Danish-German relationship, because, as I mentioned in my speech, it has been there for good and evil, just as the Danish-Swedish has been there for good and evil, one must say. But since we are talking about not only economics and politics, but also identity, the stories and all the unspoken things that bind us together, and that is to a large extent that, Mr President. Jens Rohde is just putting up with me wondering if there really is a word, a concept, a feeling that covers the Danish-German, just like when we talk about the Nordics. When you hear Edvard Grieg's music, you can hear it's Nordic. When you experience Hans Christian Andersen, Ibsen or Holberg's tone, you can hear that it is Nordic. - Sir... Jens Rohde find such a deep-rooted harmony between Denmark and Germany?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209175452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209175453	I've got 30 seconds. I can mention several literary works in Danish, inspired by German and German languages, which have German ancestors. We can have a long discussion about this, and it is also an exciting literary discussion. But I'd like to arrest sir. Morten Messerschmidt's premise that I am putting up a contradiction between the Nordic and the German. I don't. In fact, I agree that the reason why we cannot find common cultural ties is that German in primary school has been completely disavowed and almost completely removed. And that's a problem. So there I agree with Morten Messerschmidt. We can start by doing something about this, but it should not stop us from doing other good things, as Mrs Kjer Hansen proposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209175543	Thank you to the rapporteur. And Mr. Jens Rohde's gonna have to blow the disk off a little bit. Jens Rohde We're not having any radical germs here). No. Thank you. And then we go to Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, who is the rapporteur for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209175609	Thank you. These are fantastic discussions we can have. This motion for a resolution is about requiring the government to draw up a new German strategy. I would like to thank Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, because we are in fact in complete agreement with a great many of the points that have been made, among others. in relation to the need to strengthen Danish exports and Germany, strengthen tourism between our countries and strengthen cultural ties and cultural exchanges between Denmark and Germany. Covid-19 has, of course, made clear the need for strong cooperation between Denmark and Germany and, as such, other countries too, both in terms of trade, but also in terms of the health challenges that we are facing right now. And this is becoming increasingly topical, since we should rather get out of this crisis well. We note that there is a desire to strengthen German education. We are pleased about this in the SF; we want to strengthen the education system in general, and we can also support that intention, as long as it is not at the expense of, for example. other language subjects. And then there are some great opportunities, as is also noted in the debate here in relation to green exports, green trade and the prospects that might exist for Germany, for example. the Danish green energy technology. So we share those considerations as well. In general terms, I think it would be very good if we produced a joint report on this, as Mr. Jens Rohde also noticed earlier. I think that there are plenty of prospects in this and therefore I look forward to the committee's reading and further discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209175829	Then we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209175842	Thank you. The first meeting of the Second International, which was formed in 1889, took place with Danish participation by among others. Nicolaj L. Petersen. Why do I mention that? Yes, I mention that because he was not so much a Social Democrat, but distinguished himself by being president of the German Reading Society in Copenhagen. It was a widely used language at the time in the labor movement, because the great classics Marx and Engels most often wrote in German, but also in English. They were both Germans. And Gerson Trier, the Danish leader of the Socialist Party or Labour Party or Social Democratic Party then, has written a lot with Friedrich Engels. Some of the letters are written directly in Danish. And why are they? This is because Friedrich Engels had learned Danish in connection with the study of the national question in South Jutland, Sydslesvig, in which he was very interested. They also wrote to the great pleasure of the proposer together about whether one can now cooperate with a party such as the Left which existed at that time. Engels answered both yes and no. He didn't really know how to deal with it. When Karl Marx and Engels write together, they write about the Danes: The strange Danes who shout like Vikings and cry like women. In connection with an assessment of what they call the Danish War 1840s and forward they write: It would probably be wiser to let the Swedes take Sjælland, and the rest could then the Germans take. Fortunately, they did not get that right. Why do we really have to create a Germany strategy? Yes, sir. Bertel Haarder in a facebook post, which I tried to print out, and which takes up full three pages. So he thinks something about it, and it's atypical that some people use so many words on one lookup on Facebook. It's quite interesting reading, and we'll hear more about that later, so I won't read it here. It could also be said that it is perhaps more important to have a UK strategy now that the EU is cracking, or a strategy for the Kingdom community or a strategy for Nordic cooperation. There I agree with DF's rapporteur, who was previously up here. Or a strategy for UN work. There are many strategies you can make, so we can have a little direction for what we're doing out there in the world. I actually think that is what is needed. What's the most important thing when we talk about Germany? In my opinion, it is the wonderful solution of the border country with a vote on a border and two minorities that thrive enormously well. And minorities can be the focal point, the driving force, those who have better cooperation in them. I believe that minority politics is peace policy, and the solution we chose in 1920 and also in 1945 after the World War gave the basis for the fact that since then we have never had major conflicts with the Germans. Minorities can be bridge-builders and cultural intermediaries, and the young people of minorities are bilingual and highly sought after by the business community in the border country that slowly waves through when you drive either to Germany or from Germany. I think that is one of the strongest of it, and it is important that we try to discuss how minorities can be strengthened in that cooperation. Then there is cultural dissemination, which I have mentioned, that there are very, very few students and very, very few who exchange studies in each other's countries. As far as trade and exports are concerned, I am a little more critical. Not because we should not be negotiating, but in relation to the blind growth that the Left is always talking about, do we have to ask whether we cannot replace the words blind growth, economic growth, with sustainable development? Then I'd like to be a part of it. Therefore, I would say no to long journeys of pigs to slaughterhouses with underpaid Eastern European column workers in Germany. No, thank you for military production. But I would like to see better support for the UN's ban on, for example. nuclear weapons which both Germany and Denmark have joined. Yes to fewer border barriers, and yes to especially night trains from all Denmark's major cities to Germany's major cities. Such things will have a concrete content that I think we should work on better. And then, of course, we could work better together on democracy, human rights and the fight against inequality internationally. Because we saw how, for example. The Germans reached out warmly to the refugees when it really burned on a few years ago. Merkel took responsibility when the john burned in Europe and refugees needed help. In Germany, while Denmark turned its back, they closed the gate and left the problems to Greece and Italy and Spain. There are many areas in which we can work better with the Germans, including many areas which have been forgotten in the first German strategy. That is why I was a little critical of it, because I thought it was too superficial and too petulant. It was about money and exports and tourists. I look forward to continuing the discussions in the Committee on European Affairs, it seems. However, I would like to ask you to invite the most important committee, which is often overlooked in these debates, namely the South Schleswig Committee, which is at the very heart of these debates and which, in all modesty, I think, with its seven people, could contribute quite a lot to this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209180430	We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll as rapporteur for the Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209180445	Thank you. It is important to update and rethink the German strategy. The Germans are our largest neighbouring country; it is the bridgehead of the rest of Europe, a huge market, a huge potential, especially in the light of brexit. So thank you to the Left for raising this issue, and I say this too, especially in view of the fact that I think the government is a little foot-to-mouth when it comes to thinking big and thinking outside the country's borders. As the motion for a resolution shows, there are three important areas: exports, tourism and languages. Because this requires us to strengthen our language skills. I am also pleased to hear that, because I am the rapporteur for education and we see a major drop in the supply of German teachers and in the demand for language skills in general. It is important to strengthen our language, including French, I would say. We must remember that a partnership must be mutual; we cannot just believe that it will come about on its own. And that is why a strategy should not only be about what is good for us, for Denmark. From Conservatives' point of view, we recommend that a strategy also focuses on how we strengthen Germany's interest in Denmark and how a strategy will be a success; what are our success criteria? If we go back a few steps and look at the historical context of cooperation, it is inextricably linked with the European Union, international cooperation in the defence alliance, the World Health Organisation and the WTO. Now with brexit, where the English leave us, we are in a vacuum and need to find new alliances with others than the English. And I have to say that Germany and France are very united in Europe, and here, as a small country, we must look after our national interests and try to navigate after the big ones. But we can also oppose them, and we have done so, as we did earlier this year in relation to debt liability during the Corona crisis. In terms of looking at the more forward-looking approach, and that is why we think it is so important to have a strategy, a framework, we see, for example. also on the green potential. Specifically, we have a huge opportunity in relation to transport. In 2029 the Fehmarn connection will open. If Denmark is to avoid just becoming a transport corridor for goods transport, services, people back and forth on the continent, then we must use the Fehmarn connection as a lever to attract investment, labour and to create new patterns in transport, accessibility and trade. We need strong cooperation with the Germans here. Such a development will also affect us economically, socially and culturally, as we know from other fixed links. We must also look at the concrete instruments that can be included in a German strategy, and here it is important that we also think about governance. If we are to succeed with a strategy, it is crucial that we find a foothold, also between municipalities, regions and the state, and that we in Denmark give a clear signal to industry that Germany is also Denmark's most important export market in the future. We need to focus on the structurally weak areas, and cooperation in business policy should be strengthened, including at regional and local level. We can look at how to create increased digitisation, an easier form of implementation, to create remote jobs, to invest. Finally, we must also look at how we can create a stronger exchange in research and education and a stronger exchange of knowledge. There is no reason why we should all invent the deep plate of the green transition, but we must play together and play big and also think in the Nordic region, as was mentioned by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I fully agree that we must think that we can create a megaregion from Hamburg to Nordkap and beyond. So thank you for the floor and we back it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209180841	There are a few questions, and the first is from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209180844	It's a good thing we just got the last part of the speech, otherwise I'd have thought: What is it? Is this just about exports and exports? No, it doesn't. It is a question of working together to develop the necessary production that we need to have in order to survive in the threat we have with the climate and to say that it is the overbeam. Under it there are opportunities for export now, but there are also opportunities to import. I think, for example. We ourselves are going to produce quite a lot of electric cars, whereas the Germans still have a certain amount of car production, at least the development of cars. That is why I think we should try to see how best to use our powers against the greatest threat we have, and I hope that is the position of the rapporteur. Secondly, is it true that the rapporteur, Mrs Kathrine Ammitzbøll, believes that we should skip Britain and that we should now find new partners? In other words, we have had long-standing cooperation with Great Britain in quite a number of areas, and we have been somewhat similar to each other when we had to have an approach to the European Union, at least at times. Why do we have to skip them? Is there not also potential for development in cooperation with Britain? Or do they have to be completely wiped off the map? What's happening in these years?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209181010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209181011	Thank you. There is certainly a focus on the green transition, and I think I also mentioned that quite clearly, and then I started from, for example. transport, and that we'll think about the green one. After all, Germany is electrifying their entire freight transport, their trains, so we can think regionally and get all the ship up on those trains, on electric trucks and by that means create a green exchange of goods. We must clearly think green, and that is where we need each other, even if we are to set aside green solutions. So, a home market in Denmark of 5-6 million cannot lift anything at all. As far as the English are concerned, you have, as you have done, rejected us, I have to say. Tonight there will be dinner between Ursula von der Leyen and Boris Johnson, and I hope they will find a solution. After all, we very much want the English to join us closely, and we are continuing our strong cooperation with the British on security policy. But we have a challenge with them not being in the European Union, and then we have to find out how to dance with them afterwards. But now we have to think in a European context and how we can shape our European Union forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209181109	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209181110	Yes, but I think the interesting thing in the Left's proposal, among other things. is that they are beginning to discover that there are indeed some dialectical advantages in saying that it may well happen that we are in the European Union, but bilateral cooperation also has a great value, not only in the field of exports, but also in the cultural field, in the area of climate, in other words in a lot of areas, and it probably also has in Great Britain. Surely we have to say that Britain stays where it is, and the people who are there, of course, want to cooperate with all sorts of other people on this planet, and that is why we need to work both with some EU rules and with some bilateral agreements. We have to if we want to take that development into account, for example. the sensible use of the North Sea, at least as far as fishing is concerned; I think we could drop the oil altogether now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209181209	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209181210	Thank you. I would like to make a comment on the Minutes, and I thought it was a comment. So in response to the comment, I agree that we must always work together where it makes sense, as well as working with Norway around the Arctic and in many other areas, and Norway is not part of the European Union. We could also cooperate with Switzerland and learn from their education system. After all, we must work together where we can, and then work together equally with England, Great Britain, where it makes sense and where we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209181238	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209181241	Thank you. These are always good and gifted words that come from Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, when we have these discussions about the European Union, etc., and with a deep vision, which I have a very great respect for. I also thought it was a good speech here, but I did not hear much about culture and tourism, and I do not know that was because I did not just get my brain on or the listening patches out. I have a dream of creating a German-Danish cultural and tourism institute in Denmark, preferably in the large power centre Frankfurt or in Wiesbaden. There you can make health tourism; they have a fantastic tradition of that there with their sources and so on. But it is also because Frankfurt is a powerhouse in Germany, and we are always talking Hamburg, or we are talking Berlin, etc. So I just want to ask you freely from your hip: what does Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll think of such an idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209181344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209181344-2	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde, and also thanks for always sharp observations. I made an effort with the speech, but it is because I think it is so important an area. I tried to say something about some of the areas I think I may have missed a little in the motion for a resolution. There is culture and tourism in particular, and we are very much in favour of this. And I would say that the previous government actually tried to start a strengthened cultural cooperation and focus on it, including celebration and reunification, and got many things settled, which unfortunately could not be done this year, at least not to a great extent, other than that I think the Queen first marked it, but unfortunately the rest of us could not. Tourism is very important. After all, we need German tourism in Denmark very, very much, so it is an important area to focus on, also in relation to how we can once again make it smart. Can we make it green, too? Could we have electric cars in which you drive to the summer cottage areas, and at least ensure that when the Germans come up there, they also have a charging station, so think it more coherent and think it broadly? But culture is also important. Here it has been standing still in the post-war years for a long time, and here I think there is a need for action, and Jens Rohde knows a great deal about this, which we hope we can also benefit from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209181457	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209181458	It's nice to get tourists up here, but it could also be that we could learn a little by traveling a little more in Germany and getting off that highway. Christian Juhl, find out how green a country Germany really is. After all, they do not have the same cultivation of the land as we have in Denmark. So there's a lot to pick up by going down there and driving a little off the A7 motorway. It was just a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209181525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209181526	I fully agree, and I had the pleasure of travelling to Germany as a tourist three times last year, and the variation offered by Germany is a great insight and rewarding, also for your children, who can learn a lot about Germany and from Germany, including our history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209181545	Then we thank the rapporteur and then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209181558	Thank you, sir. President. Thank you very much to the rapporteurs for the strong commitment to this debate and the many positive words that have been said. It's gratifying that even Mr. Knox... Christian Juhl went from being relatively skeptical at the beginning and then in the course of the debate actually became positively committed, compared to where it is we can land this strategy and what the concrete content should be. Jens Rohde for the fine introduction to cultural association and community between Danish and German. All the Christmas traditions with the Christmas tree and the Christmas hymns could also have been chosen in the situation. It could have been a nice picture, too. I'd like to admit that it's only at a very late age when I'm on my way home from skiing come by Max and the Moritz Museum and see the whole village where all the Max and Moritz stories come from... I realize that it's Knold and Tot, and that they really come from. That's how I think we've all been trying to get some experiences of something we thought might be Danish or Nordic, or whatever it was, and it was actually some of the common goods we have with Germany. Furthermore, while I am just thanking the rapporteurs, I should like to welcome the rapporteur of the new citizens and say that they also support the resolution. I think it has been very good in this debate that it has given some depth to what is important to us in this Chamber in relation to the content of the strategy, and I think there have been a great many good suggestions as to what we need to take on board. I also sense that we have hit the right score in emphasising first of all that we need some more German language skills in teaching at different levels. Most of the rapporteurs have mentioned this and we have hit right by talking about the infrastructure. And there I would like to sign up to the SF's rapporteur's wish to strengthen the German language as well, but also that we should also, for example, be able to do so. talks about the green energy solutions across the border. And there was also, for example. Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, who mentions the need to think infrastructure across the border with the Fehmarn connection or with green measures, for example. railroad and the like. Finally, there is the need here to look at the whole tourist industry, which, if anything, is under pressure and, above all, to strengthen cultural ties. I'd like to say to Mr. Christian Juhl, that I also like to involve the South Schleswig Committee. They should be invited to contribute to the strategy. But it is precisely here that it is thought that it is also to work together between the majority population and not just the minorities, but that it is the value of our great partner in the field of European policy when it comes to trade, which is our great neighbour to the south, so it is important to think the whole country in with us and not just parts of Germany. To what extent can we end up institutionalizing some cooperation, as Mr. Jens Rohde has pleaded for today, I think we should discuss more closely, and I look forward to a constructive process during the committee work, in which we can find each other in terms of realising what we need to include in the new strategy, which will then be a follow-up to the strategy launched by the previous government in 2016, which contained many good elements, but where I also think that it has now been a few years, and then it is important to look at how we are going to move forward. And as many have said, we have among other things. to this extent have some challenges in relation to the knowledge of the German language and the teaching in general in German in the Danish education system. Then I very much agree with Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll that this is also about creating Germany's interest in Denmark, i.e. that interest goes both ways in a common desire to have strong ties, and I think that we should pay close attention to that. So these should be my words in this context, with thanks for a very good discussion. I look very much forward to being able to develop the strategy together, and I can only regret that the government did not want to engage in this wider discussion in the same way, but that, in fact, what Mr. Christian Juhl tried to criticize us for at the beginning, from the government's point of view, much more attention has been focused solely on the economic and the pekunitial, as Mr. Christian Juhl said. There you go, sir. Christian Juhl then takes it with his own government, which he supports and which perhaps there lacks vision, in relation to what is important to strengthen our cooperation. I think it is a pity, when the Foreign Minister is making a so-called declaration of friendship, that it is so difficult today to put into practice what concrete ideas should form part of that political, cultural and border regional cooperation, but we can then hope that we will hear more about that in the course of our further discussions in committee. So, in these words, thank you for the positive reception.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209182158	There are a few questions, and I should just like to point out that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has asked to speak afterwards when the rapporteur for the authors of the motion is finished here. I do not assume that it was to put questions to the rapporteur. No. I ask because a minister doesn't usually come in here. He's just giving a signal to the President. So it's okay, we got it covered. The first person who has asked to put a question to the rapporteur is Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209182222	I think we should tell the Minister that he is free to ask questions. It's no shame to ask questions. I'm not skeptical about debating Germany, but it was my father in return. He simply refused to speak German categorically, and my first foreign language was out of the German language, because we should have sold our potatoes and strawberries anyway, he thought, to the German tourists. But I would like to ask: should a new strategy not be more clues than the first? That is what I was a little critical of, because I do not think it has left much to be desired. And at first I was critical of the way it was made, because I thought it focused too much on exports, tourists and things like that. Then we might as well agree to make some concrete changes and then focus on one change here, another change there and Bertel Haarder's focus on border barriers there and set some concrete working groups in motion. At least we'll get some results. The reason I mention minorities is because I believe that in many areas they can be the crank. Try to think about how coveted the children of minorities are for tourism in Denmark and for business in Germany because they are naturally bilingual. We are on the verge of getting to grips with them, and that is why I believe that there is something at the heart of better cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209182344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209182345	Thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister for asking for the floor again. I think it is a good thing that a minister is doing something more and is willing to take the floor several times. Of course, we shall now hear what the Minister has to say, but I would like to pay tribute in advance to entering the debate. Well, then I can't help thinking that it's a little funny when Mr. Christian Juhl is busy talking about the economic space. Because I understand that it did at home, too. It was a question of selling those potatoes to the German tourists who came by. So it is just because it is an essential part of our interaction and of our lives that we can also trade with each other. The fact that those opportunities are there helps to promote the prosperity of all of us. I would like to see this new strategy go further and make more progress, but I think that the previous strategy has been very important. We had the trade offices in Hamburg and Munich strengthened, and I think we could easily increase exports to the South German market. We had some initiatives taken in the education sector with exchanges and fellow students, but, as has been the case in the debate, German knowledge in Denmark is still lagging behind. So let us get to grips with those discussions and let us discuss with each other what concrete proposals we think we should put into effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209182513	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209182514	Now I'm going to correct. You can't generalize from my father. He was a pig dealer, and he wanted to make money on everything. At that time I was most interested in the daughters of German tourists when we were going for a walk along the beach and such things. But I just think that there is an important crux of using minorities. We have both a German and a Danish minority, which means that our border country is something very special, where you help each other, where you work across, and where the craftsmen drive from north to south and find themselves some tasks where there is something to do. This kind of thing brings dynamism, and it shows precisely that if you are bilingual, you can do much more.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209182558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209182559	Yeah, or four-language, when you add Low German and South Jutland. Sir. Christian Juhl is right that a lot of people commute across the border every day. In fact, a large part of our welfare services are also deeply dependent on the arrival of foreign labour, that some will commute across the border and contribute to the provision of the services that we would like to provide to the Danes. So I fully agree that there are some specific problems in the border region that we need to look at and, as Mr. Henrik Møller's reference to the coronatide has been heavily strained by the restrictions imposed by border controls and closed border crossings.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209182639	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209182640	When I was a child, I thought that Hessisch was one of the most crazy German dialects, but Low German surpasses it. It is absolutely impossible to understand even for someone who is bilingual. But Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen talks about the matter of getting the Germans to take an interest in the Danes. In fact, I think they do very much. That's why I also mentioned this with more recent Danish literature. We see, in fact, that there is, for example. are Danish TV series that go their victory walk on ZDF and ARD. And we see ever closer cooperation between our public service stations. I would like to put the same question to Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, whom I put to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, namely how the Left and Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen view some kind of cultural and tourism institute somewhere in Germany.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209182740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209182741	Well, as a starting point, I am in favour of it, because I think it gives us a big return and many more opportunities. We simply need to make something more of the ties that exist between Denmark and Germany, particularly in relation to the majority population. Because I actually think that we have done a great deal when we talk about minorities. And I fully share the view that minority policy is peace policy and so on, but we need to strengthen it more generally. So I would like to take part in discussing the forms in which this can take place. I think it is important that we think culture widely, also in the popular engagement with the exchange of associations and the like, because I think that the ties that are attached there are some of the most important.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209182828	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we leave the platform to the Secretary of State to finish it all off. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209182848	Thank you, President. I would just like to make a few comments on the debate. I am very pleased that there is such a great interest and a good debate about Denmark and Germany's situation and how we can deepen it. I have to say that when you are shot in the shoes, that we are not ambitious or that we do not have concrete ideas, or that we do not develop our cooperation with Germany, it is simply notoriously wrong. I would like to give some examples of this, just to get the debate a little more down on the ground. I have, of course, read the resolution with great interest, and it is incumbent on the government before 1 June 2021 to draw up a new German strategy to strengthen Danish exports to Germany, to attract more German tourists to Denmark and to strengthen cultural ties between Denmark and Germany. I fully agree with these three points, but I think there is much more. There is much more in the relationship that defines Denmark and Germany, for example. in the commercial field. I myself have visited our Consulate General in Munich, where we have actually invested heavily, not least in Bavaria in southern Germany, which is one of the markets in which we are actually under-represented. Bavaria, I believe, is twice as large a population as Denmark and a strong shopping area with which we should have much greater exports and greater cooperation, and there are skilled businessmen just to take an example. So we have already done a great deal of what the previous government set in motion, for which it must be given credit, because it was the one that put the German strategy on the agenda. But for example... The motion for a resolution does not say how we will attract more investment from Germany to Denmark, which we also believe is an important task just to take the commercial part of it. To the question of cultural ties: well, we are working on it. It seems to me that one is somewhat provoked by the fact that one is being accused of not being concrete, and I must say in all respect to the rapporteur, Mrs Kjer Hansen, that the only thing I heard there was concrete on the part of Mrs Kjer Hansen was that one should strengthen, I think, the teaching of the German language in Denmark, which I fully agree with, and I think there is also broad agreement on this in the Danish Parliament. But for example... We are working on a new three-year strategy for internal cultural exchange. It's not over yet. There is a strong focus on Germany, and it is also maintained in 2021, and the majority of the more than 100 planned activities during the Danish-German Friendship Year continue. As some of the signature projects, which I think are important to highlight, I would just like to mention the democracy festival at the Humboldt Forum in Berlin 2 days of democracy and culture festival created in the spirit of Danish folk meetings and cultural meetings. I think that's exciting and good. There is also Thorvaldsen's 250 years at the Glyptoteket in Munich: large-scale exhibition in a collaboration between two of the largest lighthouses among Danish and German cultural institutions, namely Thorvaldsen's Museum in Copenhagen and the Glyptoteket in Munich; and export promotion for health architecture in Frankfurt based on construction, i.e. the cultural angle of supersickness houses in Denmark: there are plans to promote Danish experiences and solutions in the field of health architecture, public construction. Now I just took some examples here. There is a lot going on, and I can only say that the government appreciates all kinds of cooperation, and that is also what we have strategies for. Then there were a couple of rapporteurs who mentioned, for example, whether we are talking about the European Union's future. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that the German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, was in fact at the Nordic Council meeting in Iceland in August last year, as I recall, where I believe that it was a joint struggle for climate, and Merkel was there with us, and I also believe that it was possible to see that Merkel could have attended five other Nordic meetings if there had not been corona. So there is actually a very good cooperation, which I think is very important also in the Nordic Council, between the five Nordic countries and then Germany. That, of course, needs to be clarified. And Germany sees us, the North, not just the three EU countries, but the whole North, in the wake of brexit as important alliance partners, also forward-looking in the political field, I would say. Then tourism will be mentioned. I think it was Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll and we are in complete agreement on that. We in the government have also been working on this, and especially recently because of corona, there have been very difficult conditions for tourism in Denmark. We know that. It's not just in Denmark, it's all over the world. Germany is the largest market for Danish tourism and there has been a fall of more than 20%. in German accommodations for the first 9 months of the year, and it is serious, even in the summer more places in Denmark were good. The government focuses on the need to help the tourist industry during the corona crisis and has among other things: supported the business community with aid packages that we have provided in a broad collaboration. We have provided additional funds to Visitdenmark in order to strengthen the marketing of Denmark as a tourist destination, including in a nearby market such as Germany, and on the basis of the recommendations of the tourism and experience economy restart team, where the business community itself helped to give us recommendations, we have taken initiatives on a number of other things to support tourism in Denmark, among others. the restoration of critical air routes, the development of competence in the tourism and experience industry; I would also mention a project such as the Market Development Fund, which can improve the opportunities for investment in Danish tourism outside the major cities, and a common plan for restarting the tourism of the capital. I think we have a lot to do together here, so I would actually like to thank all the rapporteurs and all the parties for a very good debate. I believe that if we continue the debate, including in committee, with good ideas, we can further develop close cooperation. I am just notoriously against narrowing it down too much to deal only with culture, tourism and exports, I think it is much bigger, and I am also very opposed to having some fixed date called 1 June next year for there to be some new strategy. I think it should be much more vibrant, much broader and much deeper and much more concrete if we are going to go beyond the steppes with this, and we should, because I also sense a broad interest here in Denmark-Germany, and I am very happy about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209183527	So far, three have submitted for brief comments. The first is Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209183531	It is simply a delightful experience in this Chamber that we did not just have Mr. Christian Juhl turned from a certain scepticism to positive and very concrete, but we made the Foreign Minister himself simply change his view of this debate and now join in and would like to be involved in discussing what exactly is going to happen. I would like to congratulate the Minister, who started by stressing that there was no need for a new strategy. But I think it is very positive that the Minister is now making the concrete proposals on what could be included in it. I look forward to good discussions with the Minister too. Then I should like to ask the Minister whether the Minister thinks that this also means that the Social Democrat rapporteur is now speaking and joining us and would like to take a positive part in the development of this strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209183627	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209183628	In fact, I think that this relationship between Denmark and Germany is a little too serious to make such a political mess where you put words in your mouth or are given opinions or lack of action that is not right. This government has, on the one hand, continued what the previous government laid the foundation stone for, namely a German strategy in the commercial field, in particular, and, on the other hand, has done much more. We celebrated the year of friendship here this year. There are plenty of the hundreds of activities that have unfortunately been postponed. I have mentioned some of those that will be implemented next year. We're really happy about that. We have a new strategy in the field of culture, where Germany is a huge focus area. I think it's a little too bad that it's gonna be such a controversy. I heard nothing but that all parties, including the Social Democratic Party, are interested in constructive cooperation on this. What we just have to bear in mind is that these special deadlines, or the imposition on a government of a certain strategy at some point in time, are not constructive and, in our opinion, this is too narrow a mandate. We would rather have an open discussion and then we would accept all good ideas. I can promise the rapporteur that. We accept all good ideas on how to strengthen cooperation between Denmark and Germany.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209183738	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209183739	I would just like to congratulate the Minister on the commitment that has now been shown. I just think that the Minister should have started with it, because it would have been much more constructive. And I have to repeat that I hope that the Socialist rapporteur will stand up and confirm that the Social Democrats would like to engage constructively in the work of the committee, because the Socialist rapporteur said that it was almost premature here in the coronate to discuss a new German strategy. And the positive reports now coming from the government simply mean that we are now, in reality, a united Parliament that can discuss exactly what elements it is that we think it is important to continue working on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209183818	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209183820	That is exactly what I tried to warn you about before, namely putting opinions on other people or putting words in their mouths that they do not believe. I have only heard a constructive approach from all parties in this Chamber to the proposal to make a report and to deepen the ideas in the committee work on how we can strengthen cooperation between Denmark and Germany so that we can develop all the aspects that we have addressed here today. I think that is a good thing. So why don't we focus on that instead? As I said, I think the matter is far too important for political teasing, and I hope that there is a lot of support for this in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209183857	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209183859	I don't think anybody wants to mess with anybody here. And it's not a teasing suggestion either. I don't read the discussion like that at all. On the contrary, I hear it as very committed, and it is a pleasure, when you are half German, to experience such a commitment to it in a Danish parliament hall. Sir. Minister for Foreign Affairs, before I became a member of the Folketing for the first time, I was what is now well known as trade manager in Viborg. It really just covers the fact that you're such an eventmaker. And it's very good to do a lot of great events, and there we did a lot of things like that with friendship cities, and then we had friendship years etc. All that's a good thing, and it's such a thing that throws great pleasure at it and typically costs a lot of money. What is often experienced in such a situation is that it ends up as a one-time cultural fuck, and it does not have much lasting value. And that's why I'm trying to speak to find some more institutionalized form. And that is just mentioned as a comment, because it does not seem that the Minister can see an opinion in that. I think it's nice to mention all these events. The question is, how do we get the events and all those things that are mentioned here to create something of lasting value in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209184033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209184035	Yes, and I think I agree with the rapporteur in some strange way that it is very important not only to make an event, but also to have it institutionalised or to have some experience with which to go further. It can be said that in the field of culture, general retention and enhanced cooperation between Denmark and Germany is something that also applies as an end of the Danish-German friendship year which we have this year and which continues into 2021. This applies both at authority level, between cultural institutions and between artists and between cultural actors. And this is actually a direct result of our agreement on the Cultural Friendship Year, where cultural cooperation between countries in particular has been strengthened, both at government level and at state level. So it can be said that the cultural cooperation agreement between, for example, Aarhus and Hamburg are a good example of how one has institutionalised if one can use that word, something that has been going on for a long time. And I would only like to welcome and encourage this kind of cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209184141	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209184142	I must have spoken to Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen afterwards: I do not want to be quoted as being critical of the Germans, but I would like to admit that sometimes I am critical of what the Left is making of the proposals and Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen may quote me for that. We are currently working on two strategies: a development aid strategy that is popularly anchored, anchored in the Folketing at least, and then an Arctic strategy that is Minister-in-Office and in which we sometimes attend some conferences and are allowed to make our views known. I guess we'll do that in order to point out some principles and some longer lines out. And the strategies we have had in versions 0 and 1 and 2 have meant something, because they have put direct traces in politics and tracks in actions right into the Third World and up in the Arctic, so it does something. And if we're gonna make a strategy in this area... that's why I said it because the first one has given too few clues... then we have to try to be more concrete and be better at saying: how can we make some long-term ideas that also move something?
ParlaMint-DK_20201209184259	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209184301	Thank you. I fully agree with that: the more we can do, that strengthens and makes it more long-term, more durable and that draws some lines out in the future, the better. I just want to say that if you zoom out sometime because I would actually like to praise the previous government for having launched a German strategy then the relationship and cooperation relations between Denmark and Germany are at present. In fact, historically good. Well, there are a lot of activities going on, not right now because of corona, but generally, compared to if you just go back some time. We need to develop that further. Well, it's not like you have to rest on your laurels here. However, I just think that we must recognise that there is indeed a boost to this. Then we must push it in the right direction and, as I said, I would also like to say from the government that we are listening to all the good ideas, and I think that today's debate has produced a number of interesting ideas and ideas which are worth pitting out, and if we can continue to do so, including in committee work, then I think we can get something good forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209184357	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209184359	Yes, and if we can use a strengthened cooperation with Germany and other countries in the great transformation process, we are in the middle of the climate • Because it's not just our problem, it's the whole world's problem • Then there's an idea in it, and then I don't care if we call it strategy or some other thing. As long as it results in concrete action and we find a place where cooperation is useful. As we say in the Nordic Council: Do the Nordic good, we will work with it, do it no Nordic good and just are some nice words, then we will not work with it. That is the way we should try to find ways of working together with the Germans, which can do even better.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209184440	Thank you, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209184443	Well, I'll answer that, sir. Christian Juhl card on. I agree that we should do so. We should build on what is already in place. There are good experiences and clues that I mentioned. Unfortunately, I do not have enough time to dive into all aspects of it, but I think it is broad, culturally, economically, politically and internationally, and I would very much like to discuss with the parties how we can strengthen our strategic cooperation with Germany.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209184514	Then it's Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209184517	Thank you. We're not here to tease or to put words in someone's mouth. However, I was just aware that much of what was existing was listed in the Foreign Minister's speech. This proposal is to think forward and think into a framework you can call it strategy or framework but precisely to think longer-term about what we want to achieve. For several initiatives may not provide exactly the synergy we need, plus that we are thinking a lot about what we want out of Germany. We may not think very much about how we can also strengthen Germany's interest in us. After all, there is a force pulling down and towards the French alliance and further south. We need to talk this up. And there's a lot going on out there, and it's right now that we have to act. The other day I was at a major conference on how we can create a megaregion from Hamburg to Nordkap, and we had to make recommendations to the OECD. Denmark is right here. We can be a green powerhouse if we think about it, and it does not come from different measures. Perhaps we have just missed that, so it is very good to hear the interest of all the rapporteurs and also of the Foreign Minister. I would therefore just like to hope that the Foreign Minister does not think that they should now be imposed, but that together we can create a framework for where we want to go and a vision.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209184638	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209184640	I fully agree with all the perspectives that were drawn up. I think that we are moving a little beyond what is the content of the resolution, and I think that is also important to do in this debate. I have a lot of respect for Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, but to talk about a governance strategy and other strategies to be made, I feel a bit like that sometimes to use another English concept that I think: Show it, don't tell it. Instead of talking about what to do, let's do it. Let's go shopping. Let us enable our companies and institutions and also our politicians, as we do, to take concrete action instead of talking about desk exercises. That's where I'm starting to get a little skeptical. We get, for example. with the Fehmarn Belt link a unique position from the Danish side, which we must exploit not only economically but also more widely, that is to say developmental for our country together with Germany and Sweden and all the way up to the North Cape, which I think Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll mentioned. I think that's fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209184759	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209184800	I don't know if we've talked a lot off the subject. I just want to say that this is where we can see and think a little bigger and visionary, and that is why we can think Germany into a green transition too. When we talk about governance or just governance, it's also that we're just thinking about how we're gonna enjoy this. If we talk about exports, then we also have to go into our regions, local authorities, our small businesses, so that they can play a part together in a strategy. It's important. It is important to decouple the national level further, so that we get all the strength in how we can strengthen it. This is also a question, for example. tourism and how it plays. And we can work with West Jutland and South Jutland, anywhere. We have to think it into that context, and that is important, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209184840	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209184842	I do not disagree with that either. So I would just like to say that when I was in Munich in February on another occasion, namely at the Security Policy Conference, I also visited our Consulate General, but not only those who work there, but also Danes and those who are associated with Denmark, businessmen and others who are in the whole region of Munich, Bavaria. And if only there one could sense a huge interest in a closer bond with Denmark, and we must cultivate that. That's why we have our General Consulates. That's why we have a bet on this. We also have in a number of sectors I'll save you from repeating this, for example. in the area of water and climate, etc., actually more staff out there to make these concrete collaborations which will pave the way for much of what Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll is talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209184928	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209184930	Thank you. I just think I would say that, funny enough, I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs about this. I also think I was thinking that I was open to the fact that the elements that had emerged in today's debate were included in the discussion that must be held in committee in order to produce a report that I hope we can agree on jointly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209184951	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209184954	It's noted, thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209184957	Then we say thank you to the Secretary of State. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201209185012	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 10 December 2020, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
