ParlaMint-DK_20201112100003	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112100007	The item listed as No. 1 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112100019	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112100048	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG))? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201112100102	Today there are the following reviews: Tax Minister (Morten Bødskov): Bill no. L 90 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the tax of electricity, the Law on the tax of natural gas, urban gas, etc., the Law on the tax of coal, lignite and coke, etc., the Law on the energy tax of petroleum products, etc.) and various other laws. 2020 etc.)). Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Mattia Tesfaye): Bill No. L 92 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. Bill No. L 93 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. Minister for the Environment (Lea Wermelin): Bill No. L 94 (Proposal for a law on the Danish Climate Forest Fund), Bill nr. L 95 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Chemicals, the Law on Environmental Protection and the Law on Fertilizers and Properties, etc.) Bill No. L 96 (Proposal for a law amending the Environmental Damage Act and the Environmental Protection Act and various other laws. Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply (Dan Jørgensen): Bill no. L 97 (Proposal for a law amending the Biofuel Act. Bill No. L 98 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payment Rules for Wastewater Supply Companies, etc., Law on Environmental Protection, Water Sector Law, Rivers and Water Supply Act, etc.) Bill No. L 99 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Energy Networks, the Law on Electricity and the Act on Natural Gas Supply. Minister for Finance (Nicolai Wammen): Bill No. L 100 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the availability of websites and mobile applications of public bodies. Minister for Health and the Elderly (Magnus Heunicke): Bill No. L 101 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Health. Employment Minister (Peter Hummelgaard): Bill no. L 102 (Proposal for a law on the right of employers to impose tests on employees for covid-19 etc.). Susanne Zimmer (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. B 81 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of a national park in Han Herred) and motion for a resolution No. B 83 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the limitation of fireworks). Morten Dahlin (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 82 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the disqualification of citizenship of drug-related crime). Carsten Kissmeyer (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 84 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the strengthening of legal certainty by expropriation, etc.). Eva Kjer Hansen (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 85 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the preparation of a new German strategy). Lise Bech (DF) and Hans Kristian Skibby (DF): Request no. F 18 (Will the government explain the decision-making process behind the national killing of mink, including the lack of a legal home, and explain the government's involvement of international experience and experts, and whether, in the light of the video clips on the web, it is animal ethically justified that the Danish Food Authority continues to kill mink?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held today at 1 p.m. 10:15. For the first time, there will be voting according to a new method, so I would ask you to come in in good time.
