ParlaMint-DK_20200424100003	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: sir. Morten Messerschmidt (Danish People's Party) and Mr. Peter Skaarup (Danish People's Party): Request no. F 56 (Will the government state what instruments it intends to use as a political body to address the political misinformation increasingly seen on social media, including what is known as deepfake, and other crafted material distributed to create a false impression of political views and messages from the recipient?). Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl (Danish People's Party), Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen (Left) and Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen (Conservative People's Party): Hasteforskning nr. F 57 (What can the Prime Minister say about the long-term plan for dealing with the coronapandemic, the reopening of Danish society and the recovery of Danish economy?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20200424100039	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, sir. Jeppe Bruus. Welcome!
ParlaMint-DK_20200424100054	Thank you for the floor. The bill that we are going to deal with today is, after all, an offshoot of the initiatives that the government has put forward in the past, about tackling more seriously the people who leave Denmark, join an organization or network, commit terror or participate in a war against Danish soldiers or against Danish interests, or against Danish allies, and then return again. Unfortunately, this is something we have become familiar with, which is also part of the society we are and which we therefore also have to deal with. This has been emphasised many times, and I would also like to stress this here: people who leave Denmark to participate in Islamic State, for example, because it was more widespread than it is today, and then having a desire to come back, we have no need of coming back. In fact, we see that once they have left Denmark, they no longer have a homeland in Denmark. Then there are some of them who are entitled to come back anyway, because they are Danish citizens, and we have to deal with that, and there we are doing what we can to ensure that they do not have the opportunity to return, and if they do, we must also be sure that we address that situation. Looking back, you can see that in recent years we have tightened the penalties with the gang packages and we have tightened the penalties for people who commit sexual abuse. However, there is a slight delay in relation to the people we have been talking about in recent years, and there is the purpose of this bill, on the one hand, to tighten up the penalties for terrorist acts against people who either commit terrorism or join these organisations or enter a conflict area without it being legal. So that's one part of the bill here. The second part is about the fact that if you have received a judgment, you can be sentenced to a residence and contact ban in connection with that sentence, so that we actually have better control of where these people are, or at least have better control of where they can't be. So there are areas throughout the country where they are actually banned from staying, because those people, after serving punishment, or at least after serving imprisonment, still pose a risk, both at risk of radicalising others, but also at risk of committing new terror. Therefore, there are areas where they should not be allowed to be, and there are also people that they should not be allowed to be in contact with other convicted terrorists, etc. We know this because we have implemented it, both in the gang packages, but we have also implemented it in relation to people who have been punished for committing sexual abuse, for example. For children. And it is quite appropriate that we get better control of where those people are, and it is also quite appropriate in relation to the people we are talking about here. That is why, as part of these residence and contact bans, it goes without saying that the police, which already supervises, are now being given the opportunity to carry out stricter supervision and thus also to check that these people actually comply with the residence and contact ban which has become part of the punishment they have been given and which is, of course, laid down by a judge. And I think it's really good that we give the police some extra tools and opportunities to supervise these people. That is why the Social Democratic Party cannot surprisingly support, of course, the proposal put forward by a social democratic government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424100527	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424100533	I agree with the majority of the draft law, but, as with the second proposal that we dealt with, which is similar to this, there is an opportunity to enter the place of residence of the convicted person without a court order, and I am, in fact, concerned about that, so I would like to hear: how do the Socialists react to the hearing answer which, among other things, is. have come from the Court Association and a large number of other organizations that say this is a erosion of the jurisdictional decisions area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424100608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424100609	We have, of course, read the hearing answers and it is clear that it is to find out whether they are complying not only with the residence ban they have been given but also with the contact ban they have been given. If the police come across anything criminal, yes, then they need a warrant to do a proper search. So there is no doubt that this is a tightening-up, and we are actually glad that it is with full openness. I don't think it's gonna undermine the system. It's still a judge who has to judge it. It is a little the same with the food authorities or other authorities who have the opportunity to go in and supervise businesses to check whether things or tax documents are in order. I think it's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424100700	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424100702	But could the Socialists not say a little more about what it is that prevents a court order from being used, i.e. what the disadvantages are, it means that you go around the court if you have a basis of suspicion, and ask: can I go into his place of residence? I'd like to know a little more about that. At the end of the proposal, it says that this involves some additional costs for criminal services. And there is no mention of how it should be financed, so I would like to know: is it funded? Is there going to be a grant for the D.C.?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424100737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424100738	In relation to the last part, I have the great privilege of having the Minister sitting, so in all peace I think the Minister will probably have that question as well. In relation to the first part, I would like to say that a court order is given on the basis of specific and justified suspicions. Here is the concrete and justified suspicion that this person has been sentenced by a judge to a residence and contact ban because there is in fact a concrete risk that he will contribute to greater radicalisation and commit new terror. That is why I believe that it is within this framework that you can see that you can actually exercise the supervision that has been again established by a judge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424100826	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424100831	Thank you. Now, there's a big difference between checking food and getting supervision there. There you will probably check whether they comply with the dates and whether they have the right temperature, whereas with the same coercive action, as is the case here, you can go into private homes and check their computers and everything without a court order that you normally have to have. I would therefore like to ask the Socialist rapporteur whether it is imperative to have this opportunity to do so without a court order. Is it imperative, and is that what is needed in order to impose a residence ban or a contact ban? Is that what it's like to be able to do without a warrant?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424100915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424100916	To the first part about the principle: if the Radical Left has supported it in the past too, that one can actually go in and control companies, then I would say that I think this is considerably more serious. After all, these are people who have been convicted after the terrorist paragraphs and who pose a risk. That's one part. The second part I think I have answered in my reply to the SF rapporteur. This is laid down in the courts, which is why it is on the basis of an assessment by a judge that there should be a residence ban and a contact ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424100954	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424100956	I would like to ask again about this, because the rapporteur compares it with the fact that it is possible to monitor food: does the rapporteur think that this is the same as checking the temperature of food and its shelf life when entering a citizen's home without a court order and imposing access to the citizen's computer and letters, and therefore something so intrusive in personal freedom, without a warrant? You equate the two things, but is there the same intensity in these interventions?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424101027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424101029	I don't think I can measure it up to one. These are two different things. But the principle is the same: to have access to control something. After all, it is people who have been convicted after the terrorist paragraph, and it is a judge who provides that there must be a residence ban and a contact ban, and thus also provides the framework for the residence bans and contact bans.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424101052	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424101055	Thank you. To follow up on my colleagues' questions, I just need to hear the Social Democracy and Mr. Jeppe Bruus, if it would not be sensible to make a sunset clause on this bill, since it is so much interference in privacy, as several of the hearings also point out. Wouldn't it be smart for us in three or five years to look at whether this bill has worked and whether these tools have been necessary for the police? Then, from that point of view, we could have another discussion in three years' time as to whether this has really been necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424101132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424101133	Well, usually we use sunset clauses when we make urgent legislation. I always think it is sensible to look at whether the legislation we have is working. You can do that, whether there is a sunset clause or not. There may also be a need to tighten up the legislation if it does not seem appropriate enough. So I think that is a natural part of the parliamentary work we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424101158	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424101159	I know that the Folketing can decide to introduce a sunset clause, even if there is no urgent legislation, so I am not buying that argument. But I hear Mr. Jeppe Bruus such that if we propose that we somehow make an evaluation or follow-up of this here, or an annual progress report, it could also be, for example. If it were written into the comments, the Social Democratic Party would not necessarily be opposed to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424101226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424101228	What you have to hear me say is not an endorsement that every year we meet and look at this legislation specifically, but it is quite natural that it is always the case that if you, for example, look at this legislation. in the Committee on Legal Affairs, of which we are members, take up something and look at how things really are going, ask the Minister whoever it is at that time, what the status is, how it has evolved, then the Minister answers, and then we have a discussion on it. I think you can always do that. I don't know if I'm gonna be involved in making such a solid evaluation of this. But it is true that sunset clauses can always be made. I don't see any reason why we should do this. We have done a thorough piece of preparatory work on the law. There have been consultation responses that we have dealt with. And we've already implemented this type of legislation before, both in relation to the biker gang environment and to the sex doomed, so it's not that it's completely new country for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424101324	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, and that is Mrs Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424101339	There are people who are enemies of democracy and who are enemies of Denmark. The bill we are discussing here today concerns precisely those people, because it is about increasing the penalties for terrorism and terrorist-related crimes. At the same time, the bill provides for the possibility of imposing a contact ban and a residence ban if a person is judged according to precisely the terrorist rules. This means that he cannot return to the same radicalised environment from which he came, thus recruiting and inspiring others to commit new terrorist crimes. For the Left, we need better control of foreign fighters who are expected to return to the country. They make up some of the most dangerous people at all. They have turned their backs on Denmark. That is why we have taken initiatives in the past to tighten the law against this group. Since 2012, more than 159 people have been expatriated, according to PET, from militant Islamist groups in, for example. Syria and Iraq. Fortunately, some of them are still outside the country, but we also know that some of them intend to return because the so-called Islamic state has fallen apart. That is why we in the Left believe that it is absolutely necessary to tighten the grip on these groups and terrorists in general and thus also to reduce the risk of continuing their atrocities. That is exactly why the Left can support the bill as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424101537	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424101541	Thank you so much. I would really like to ask the rapporteur, Mrs Inger Nøjberg, whether the Left will also be involved in further punishments, and whether the Left will also be involved in expelling foreign terrorists despite possible conventions; in short, the Left is more concerned with the security and security of Danes than with regard to terrorists and these obsolete conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424101612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424101613	I think we should divide the discussion into two. One is the discussion about the conventions as they stand today and whether they are perfect. No, they certainly aren't. I also hear Mrs Mette Thiesen point out that they are obsolete. And it has to be said that they are for the sole reason that they were written before the time of globalisation and before there was so much intercourse throughout the world. Of course, we would like to see some changes to them, but this is a slightly longer discussion, which I think we will have to take at another time. We in the Left feel that we are not going to break conventions to which we ourselves have signed, although there may be things that one might wish to be different in the conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424101703	Mrs Mette Thiesen, on the other hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424101705	Thank you so much. That is a clear answer. Of course, it is a pity that the Left does not put the safety and security of the Danes above these obsolete conventions. That's too bad. But the rapporteur did not reply to my first part of the question, namely whether these punishments, i.e. whether the Left might be involved in further punishments.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424101724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424101725	In no way will we be opposed to this. Of course. But again, it has to stay within the framework of the conventions, although there are things in the conventions that we would also like to see changed. But we would very much like to take a look at what other options we have. In general, I think that's the way it is. We must always be ready to tighten up if possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424101753	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Pernille Bendixen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424101805	Thank you. Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen has said the following about Syrians: "Unfor our wishes, there are now unfortunately foreign warriors coming to Denmark. Let me say something directly to you: you are not welcome in Denmark. We will do everything we can to keep those people out of our society. If I have to take care of Denmark, I have to keep the Syrians out. And here there is a convention that in my view protects the wrong person. The contract should protect the Danes, here you protect the foreign warrior. Is L 130 going to solve what the Prime Minister has said? No, it doesn't. If we had solved that problem, we would not be standing here today talking about L 130. So my question to the government is: when does the government do what the Prime Minister says it will do, namely to look at it with the conventions, which is the problem? We cannot say no to these people because of outdated, hopeless conventions, and we actually expect the government to do what the Prime Minister has said, otherwise the words are simply empty talk without action. However, a little is better than nothing, and the Danish People's Party naturally supports the tightening up proposed by the bill. We can therefore support the introduction of contact and residence bans in addition to penalties. However, when it is given only by unconditional judgment, we do not think that this is in line with the proposal for a directive which proposes to prevent radicalisation. We therefore want the proposal to include conditional judgment. If something is to be preventative and ensure as much as possible against radicalisation, we also need to take a hard stand against it. We also find it extremely inappropriate that, three years after your punishment, you can go to the courts and get the ban removed, which is why we think that part should be completely removed from the legislative proposal. It is again on the grounds that it must, of course, ensure the prevention of radicalisation. And here we are talking about terrorists, people who have turned their backs on Denmark and who are enemies of the country, and that is why we do not think they should have that opportunity either. There are estimated to be quite heavy additional costs in the criminal services of 2-7 million. kr., and the cost is estimated to rise to 9-13 million. kr. In addition, additional costs are expected for the police's oversight. It is true, a great deal of money that needs to be spent on relatively few people who should not even be here in our country, and that is why this bill also shows that it is actually a patch solution to a problem that has not been resolved. We, like the previous rapporteur, want to know where the money comes from, so we expect the Minister to address that. We support the bill, but we regret that the problem of foreign fighters simply not entering Denmark has not been resolved once and for all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424102059	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks, and that is how we proceed in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424102112	Thank you. Today we are debating a bill that, in addition to prison sentences, a person convicted under one of the paragraphs relating to terrorism, including its incitement or approval, should also be able to be sentenced to a residence ban and/or a contact ban. In addition, there are increased penalties, mainly for 1-2 years, for various terrorist clauses. I would like to start by saying that we fundamentally share the intentions and aims of the bill, because terrorist acts must be combated, terrorist acts must be prevented, terrorist acts must not take place. That is why, of course, action must be taken against those who intend to do so, whether they are militant Islamist, foreign fighters, right-wing extremists or left-wing extremists. It is undemocratic to resort to violence in order to promote its messages, and the whole parliament is opposed to this. They want to get out of the environment that makes them do it. Fortunately, some of the paragraphs relating to terrorism have never been applied and this is something to be welcomed. And I think this is very much due to the fact that we have a skilful police thank you for their efforts! Against this background, it might be tempting to ask the question what difference it will really make if the clauses whose deeds are not committed can now also be linked to a residence ban and/or a contact ban. One can discuss for and against the usefulness of a residence ban and/or a contact ban. On the one hand, it is a bad idea for more people to talk about bad ideas and, of course, we should not incite others to anti-democratic actions. On the other hand, one can also fear, as among other things. The Crime Prevention Council writes in the hearing that the prohibition of residence or contact can make people even more marginalised and isolated, and what does it have to do with their radicalisation? Unfortunately, we also know that social media with various online groups are subject to radicalisation, and where should a residence ban actually benefit? If they're not allowed in Ringsted, they can just sit on the computer in Rungsted. As the Court of Justice, the courts and the courts write in the hearings, can it be difficult to define an area in which those convicted of terrorism are prohibited, because if you are banned from being in Gellerup, is it better to commit crime in Hellerup? No. Therefore, we can speak for and against, and a residence ban and/or a contact ban is therefore not necessarily a good idea. But the jumping point for the Radical Left in not being able to take part in this bill is that the bans are proposed to be enforced by allowing the police, without a court order, to obtain access to the sentenced person's accommodation and other premises at the disposal of the convicted person and to carry out investigations to ensure access to it. Similarly, without a court order, the police will be able to investigate letters and other papers and items, including computers, telephones and IT equipment at the disposal of the convicted person, and even bring these items to investigate their contents. Of course, you cannot always get a court order before you do such a thing, but at least such a bill should be introduced here that there should be a subsequent catch-up if the purpose would otherwise be lost. Because it doesn't belong in the rule of law that the police have to go into people's homes and check computers without a warrant. Forced action requires a judge's approval on the basis of suspicion. I am very concerned that this is a trend we are going to see for several types of crime: that the police can penetrate people's homes whenever they want, without a court order. Recently, at the beginning of the year, a political majority also decided to introduce it for sex offenders, and what will the next one not be? It is clear that when we remove some powers that the courts have today and allow the police to bypass the courts, it is a small step away from the rule of law and a step towards a police state, a small step away from the rule of law and a small step towards a police state. The Radical Left believes that terrorism can be combated without selling out of its own values, without selling out of the rule of law. We do not fight terrorism without a court order, because then we will only lose seriously if we weaken the principles of a democratic society. We will not beat the terrorists if we knock in our own rule of
ParlaMint-DK_20200424102626	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424102631	[Sound emission]... Is the microphone working? No? Then I'll have to speak out loud. We do not beat the terrorists, if we then knock off what... [Sounds out]... our own democracy, that was what the rapporteur concluded by saying. It must be understood that the Radicals see that democracy is given the opportunity to exercise tighter control, in the same way as physically beating these terrorists who violate the principles we have that we do not commit torture. That is followed by the radicals saying: Well now we did it also in relation to sex offenders. But we can see that some sex offenders commit new assaults on children after serving punishment. So where are we? Yes, we are over there where there are some people who are committing the worst crimes in this society that we have not had enough control over and which we now know a judge allows us to control more. The Radicals also pay tribute to our respect for our courts. That's exactly what we have here. It is a judge who determines whether there are grounds for making a residence and contact ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424102745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424102747	Now that the question of knocking the terrorists is understood in a more figurative sense, I can reassure you. What is radical left's fundamental approach is that when you make such a significant coercion as entering people's private homes or accessing their IT equipment, letters and contacts, it must require a court order. It may also happen afterwards if it is that otherwise the purpose would be lost. It is an absolutely fundamental principle of the rule of law and it works well for the police in all sorts of other contexts, so we are sure that it can also work for the police if these principles are introduced, including in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424102827	Before mr. Jeppe Bruus will have the opportunity to make his second brief comment, I will have to interrupt the sitting briefly because we have technical problems. The sound system doesn't work: there's no sound in here at all. So we shall postpone the sitting for a short time and resume it as soon as the technology supports us again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424105954	The meeting can now be resumed, but in a slightly changed form. Because the technique in all the places doesn't work. As you can hear, there is sound on the chair, there is also sound on the platform, and then there is sound from the desk. That is why we will continue the meeting, but it will be done more manually, albeit if you use the three microphones. So when there are brief remarks, please signal. I'll make a note of it as if it were a regular series of speeches. Since we will not be able to see the speaking time, I shall rise when there are about five seconds left of speaking time so that we are aware that our speaking time is running out. So unless there's a lot of protests against this kind of settlement, I'd say that's the way we do it. It's agreed. We shall now proceed to the first reading of Bill No. L 130. And that is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mr. Kristian Hegaard, who has given his rapporteur's speech, and so there is a brief comment to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, and it's from Mr. Jeppe Bruus of Social Democracy. Here you go for the two rounds, which means the first one is in one minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424110125	Thank you. The point I made to the rapporteur was that the Radical Left rapporteur was told not to push these people. Now I don't remember quite literally, so maybe it's an unfair rendering. My point was that it is a judge who lays down the penalty, and we usually agree to have confidence in our courts as well. And I do not quite understand the radical position of saying that this is a slippage in relation to everything else, since it is a judge who lays down the penalty, and when we are dealing here with some people who pose a risk, it is a danger to society; and that this risk assessment is carried out by a judge and that it is therefore also a judge who imposes a residence and contact ban and thus also sanctions that it should be possible to follow it up, even without a court order.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424110226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424110231	I and the Radical Left have full confidence in the courts, and that is why we believe there should be a court order before the police come into the private home or pick up a computer or enter. That is what is at stake, and it is precisely because we trust the courts that they are going to have to deal with this. So I think it is perhaps more the questioner who has a little less confidence in the courts when you do not want them to be included in the supervision of a residence or contact ban. And I'm very surprised.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424110301	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424110304	But they're just in the middle of it. Another thing I would like to ask the radical rapporteur, both in relation to this proposal, and when we adopted a similar residence and contact ban earlier this year in relation to criminals who commit sexual abuse against children, is that the Radical Left is so busy in these matters, which amazes me a little. I really wish that we were just as busy protecting the children whom it is intended to protect here, in relation to the sexual offenders; and, in the same way, taking it very seriously that there is a risk that these people who have been convicted of terrorism still pose a risk when they have served the part that concerns their prison sentence. And that's what we're dealing with here. So I would really like the Radicals to share the same zeal to find out how we control these people more closely so that we minimise the risk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424110350	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424110353	The disagreement on this issue is not at all about whether we are against those who commit the terrible crime, whether it is committed against children or terrorist-related. Everyone in this room is totally opposed to that. What we then seem to just disagree on is whether we have to break into the rule of law in order to go this way, or whether we should not do the same as everyone else and do it within the framework of the rule of law, where the courts become involved in the issues of enforcement, among others. residence and contact bans to do. There I have great confidence in the courts, i.e. that they can also find out in collaboration with the police, just as we know it in section 72 of the Constitution and in the Code of Procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424110430	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. The brief remark is from the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424110443	Thank you so much. I would really like to ask the rapporteur of the Radical Left something. It seems that the rapporteur and, in general, the Radical Left again in this matter are extremely busy feeling sorry for terrorists as well as, as the Social Democrat rapporteur said, in a previous case felt sorry for sexual offenders who have committed terrible crimes against children. And I'm just really surprised that the Radical Left appears to be so much inclined to protect some people who have committed these violent and very, very inhuman crimes. So I would really like an answer to that: why is the Radical Left so concerned about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424110525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424110529	I think that is a very strange question. No one in this Parliament feels sorry for those who commit the most serious crimes, so I would strongly reject that. I think that is a very strange question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424110538	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424110543	That's a very real question, because that's what you're going into with this. The rapporteur himself mentions the fact that cracks are being broken in the courtroom. You do not strike cracks in the rule of law, but you ensure that you protect those who might otherwise be subjected to terrorism. And, of course, this means paying extra attention to those who, as in the previous case, have committed sex crimes or those who, in this case, have simply been convicted of terrorism. And the concern for the safety and security of the Danes must, of course, be over it, and that is why I really think it was a very real question, so that it is so premature that it is a pity for them that they suffer here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424110621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424110625	The security and security of the Danes is a very high priority on the part of the Radical Left. I think it does for all the parties of the Folketing. The Danish values are among others. built on the democracy that we have, where the rule of law is a pillar and a foundation in this respect, where, of course, judicial decisions are sought when coercive action is taken. And we just don't think there should be cracks in the rule of law. Because it will be to beat cracks in Danish values.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424110648	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next brief remark is from Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424110657	Thank you. It is a little free to stand on the platform and say that one cares about the Danes and indeed also, in relation to the previous cases, the safety of children, when at the same time one cannot vote in favour of the bill. Because if you're serious, you're of course voting for a bill that tightens up the demands of these terrorists, these enemies of Denmark. And that is where I just have to support the former rapporteur and say: then it is, of course, that the Radical Left is more concerned with the security of terrorists than with the security of citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424110730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424110733	I can say that what the Radical Left is concerned with is that the fight against terrorism and the rule of law can go hand in hand. When we're going to have the shovel under the terrorists, which we're really good at, because many of these paragraphs haven't been applied, we don't have to break into the rule of law at the same time. And that is what we believe can go on two legs: effective enforcement and effective rule of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424110758	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424110802	That is just a comment, because then it has to be said that the Radical Left is more concerned with protecting the security of terrorists than with the security of the citizens, as we see it, when it is not possible to vote in favour of a bill that tightens the demands.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424110812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424110815	I just have to say once again, as I said to the previous authors, that I think it is a very strange conclusion to draw from it. Because, as I started by saying, we share the intentions and aims of the bill. Everyone really wants to get the shovel under these terrorists, but there's no need to break into the rule of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424110835	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur from the SF, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424110854	Terror is a serious crime and that is why, of course, we have a political obligation to ensure that we do as much as possible to prevent it from happening at all. And in that process, of course, there are many things you can do. It is about the very early efforts in our education system so that we ensure that all pupils get a chance and do not fall into marginalised and undemocratic communities where they risk being recruited. It is also about ensuring that our intelligence services, who are skillfully investigating and preventing these cases, have the tools necessary to do so. It's about the punishment you get. And it is a question of giving room to the municipalities, for example. Aarhus Municipality, which has skillfully got a plug in the number of exits by making a lot of preventive measures. Therefore, it also makes a great impression that exactly the municipality of Aarhus, which developed a model of prevention in this area that ended up being copied all over the world, says: We could actually use this tool • residence and contact ban • in some of the cases we have experienced. That is why I think it makes sense that we can say to radicalised people that we must not go to places where others can be radicalised or where we can be maintained in radicalisation or in contact with other condemned radicalists. As I read the bill, I think it is a tool that should only be used exactly where radicalisation is concerned. And I think that's a really good idea. We'll back that up in the SF. However, as with the previous discussions on exactly the question of this model of non-contact and residence, it is important that the police should be able to enter these people's homes without a court order. And, as was just mentioned in the recent debates on paedophiles at the time, we are preoccupied with the fact that, if you are going to make such an intervention, you go down and ask for a warrant. It is also about legal certainty for those whom we do not like. But we also know that if you are going to pass a judge, you are going to make an effort to ensure that there is a suspicion, that there is a case. And I also think that this is precisely where the number of hearings is critical. I think it makes an impression when the Court of Justice says that what we are doing politically is denouncing the area of judicial decisions. I find that worrying in a constitutional state. That is why, in the SF, we will also be tabling amendments to reinstate this with court orders, and if we fail to do so, we hope that there is goodwill from the Minister for Justice to split the bill so that we can vote for the parts that we are in favour of. And what we are in favour of is, in particular, about the punishments that lie in relation to terrorism and terrorist-related crimes. Part of the argument is that they have not been adjusted, just as the punishments for gang crimes have become, and it is difficult to be against such serious crimes not also being subjected to serious punishment. I would, however, have preferred, since a whole chapter on terrorism is being revised, that we would have asked the Criminal Code Council to look at how we should increase the penalty. In fact, I've already asked the Minister for Justice about that, and he has rejected it. So we have to deal with what's here, and we can back that up in the SF. So we would like to continue working on this proposal, and then I would say to allerallers last, that I can see that this also has some consequences for the criminal services, which are currently under pressure from a towering foundation. And I also know that the Minister has just given some money to enable us to reduce that evidence. However, I am looking for an answer as to whether this proposal has been financed, because I do not believe that criminal services can stand up to the fact that there are more unfunded punishments, so of course we also need to clarify this in this process. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424111319	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. As far as I can see, there is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424111334	Thank you. The purpose of this bill is to prevent terrorism and stop those who want to fight our basic democratic rights. And you can't disagree with that. There should be no doubt that terrorist acts are deeply reprehensible and an attack on democracy. Unfortunately, I just doubt that this bill will have a preventive effect. The bill provides for the criminal framework for terrorism to be lifted, and that part is, in my view, very symbolic. As the punishment for terror is already very high. I actually believe that it will have a symbolic meaning. It is also a long way from our main concern about this bill, and I can support that part in and for myself, even though it is not immediately something that has grown in the Garden of Enhedslisten. But we can support that part very well. I am much more concerned about the other parts of the bill. After all, the bill states, for example, that it must be possible to impose a residence and contact ban of up to 10 years on convicted terrorists and foreign fighters. This is because it is intended to prevent the convicted person from staying in certain places and to try to prevent him from planning new crime. It should therefore have some degree of resocializing, preventive effect. I don't think so, unfortunately. If it had, I could see the point better with it. In fact, I think it has the opposite effect. A ban on residence and contact may mean that the convicted person carries a stamp of being a criminal, even though he has actually endured his sentence, and that is why it does not help him to get back on his feet, that is to say to get out of the radicalised environment, to get away from the radicalised environment. This also means that it is a dispute with the very good principle that we have in Denmark and that we have in a state governed by the rule of law, namely that once you have endured your punishment, you have endured your punishment. That is why I do not think it makes any sense for us to put a stamp on these people, whom we actually want to re-socialise and which we would actually like to prevent from committing new terrorist acts, which we all agree must be the purpose. In this context, I would like to quote the former rapporteur for the Socialist Party, Mrs Trine Bramsen, who said, in the context of the debate on the amendment of the penal code for sex offenders, that it should not be the case that, when you come out and get your sentence, you can be followed for the rest of your life. It's legal certainty. I think that was wisely said by Mrs Trine Bramsen, and I think that is also true in this matter. Secondly, I also have the concern with regard to the draft law that the Ministry of Justice and the draft law believe that there should not be a court order to supervise the ban. That means, as we have also discussed today, that the police can access the homes and computer of convicted persons without any reasonable suspicion and without a court order. It is in the eyes of Enhedslisten a violation of the right to privacy. And for the sake of good order, I would just like to quote section 72 of the Constitution: The dwelling is inviolable. House investigations, seizure and investigation of letters and other papers, as well as breaches of postal, telegraph and telephone secrecy, where no law provides for a special exception, shall be carried out only after a court order. Where no law provides for a special exception, it says. It is, after all, a proposal for such a law that we are discussing here today, that is to say, a legislative proposal which puts out one of the most important provisions of the Constitution on privacy and the inviolability of housing for a particular group of people. I think that is a very serious matter. It is rather strange that I should stand here as a socialist defending privacy and the inviolability of housing. But that is the way it has to be. Unfortunately, this bill forms part of a dull trend in which basic legal guarantees are weakened, and this also applies to housing and privacy inviolability. And even if it's not a breach by the Ministry's judgement, it's a weakening, and I think that's a very boring trend. This bill then goes into the list, because it is not the first legislative proposal we have that weakens fundamental rights. Then I can also read out that, according to the Ministry's assessment, there are no human rights violations in this bill, and I think that is very good. However, I would just like to say that I believe that the draft law makes great cuts in some of the rights of free movement and the right to family and privacy. And in this context, I would like to remind you that the meaning of human rights and the Convention on Human Rights is not, therefore, that it is such a ceiling on rights and that it cannot be extended or that it should simply be about restricting them. No, the human rights convention is a bottom, and then we can extend the rights from here. Human rights should be something we stand on our shoulders and not something we go to the edge of. The Enhedslisten cannot support this bill, but I would recommend that a majority in the Folketing adopt a sunset clause in relation to the bill, as is also proposed in several of the consultation responses. In any case, we will take this forward to committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424111916	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424111931	Thank you. Now Mrs Rosa Lund is referring to Mrs Trine Bramssen and a quote that I do not know, but as I hear it, it is about the fact that it is not forever. Well, here is a time limit set by a judge. And then the rapporteur also referred to section 72 of the Constitution, as if it were quite peculiar to use the constitution and then provide for something by law. That's exactly what it says. And that means, yes, you can make a law that creates a law. It is not a violation of the constitution, and it is also true of Article 71, which deals with detention, which can only take place on the basis of the law. etc. That's what our constitution is all about. So it is not the case that we are balancing on any edge in this way. I assume that Enhedslisten agrees with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424112025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424112029	I do not think it is a breach either; I think it is a weakening and I think it is part of a very boring legal policy trend that we have, where we weaken our fundamental rights, for example. by the fact that time and again we provide for violations of rights by law, as the Basic Law certainly requires us to do. And that is exactly what we are doing here today. That is also what I said, but that does not mean that I think it is a good idea to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424112053	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424112056	But is not all the work we do in the Folketing a weakening of the constitution, if the starting point is that if we provide something by law, then we weaken the constitution? Then Enhedslisten disagrees with this bill. Anyway, it's the work that's going on. Well, that's what it is to rule the people. So if the principle is that if we regulate something by law, then it weakens the basic law, is that what we do, if not every day? I guess that's what we're really doing here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424112122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424112125	I do not agree with that. What we do every day in here is not always legislation that deals with our fundamental rights; it is legislation that deals with a great many things and that sometimes has to be laid down in the constitution and that must not, of course, exceed the principles of the constitution. So I do not really agree with the rapporteur on that. I think there is a very big difference, for example. to adopt some legislative proposals on how much money we should give to educators in kindergartens, and then to discuss a bill that goes on our fundamental rights. That is also why, for example, we are doing so. The last few weeks have spent a great deal of time discussing what it means when we intervene in the freedom of assembly, which is, of course, a fundamental right and which is enshrined in our constitution and which must be laid down by law when we do so, and therefore we have put in place urgent legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424112206	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. I have not noted any more who wish to make brief comments. That is why we are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424112221	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. I am taking the matter in this Chamber today on behalf of our rapporteur, Naser Khader, who has no opportunity to be available or to be in the Chamber, but it will be he who is going to take the further reading of the committee. With this bill, the government is proposing a series of new measures as part of a strengthened effort against foreign fighters and other convicted terrorists. Among other things, it is proposed that persons who are sentenced to an unconditional prison sentence or other punishment of detention for an offence which is covered by the terrorist provisions of the criminal code may be granted a residence and contact ban, which has been discussed in the Chamber today. In addition, a number of stricter penalties are proposed for breaches of the criminal code's provisions on terrorism. Unfortunately, it has proved necessary to tighten up the penalties for the terrible acts that are behind violations of the criminal code's provisions on terrorism. Unfortunately, PET still considers that the threat to Denmark is serious, and this merely underlines that a bill such as this has its justification. We must do everything we can to counter the threat to Denmark. Unfortunately, we have also experienced in Denmark at close quarters what terrorism does when it shows its ugly face. We must do everything in our power so that it does not happen again. I think we can all agree on that in this House across political divides. In this context, contact and residence bans can be good tools to ensure that already convicted people are not left in the radicalised environments that have helped to cause them to commit acts of terrorism in the first place. That is why the hearing from Aarhus Municipality, which has worked a lot with this, actually also impresses me, as the SF's rapporteur also mentioned. It is important for me to make it clear on behalf of the Conservative People's Party that we are willing to go a long way to prevent terrorist crimes in Denmark, and that is why we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424112419	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424112437	Thank you. With the bill here, the government wants to tighten up the penalties for terrorism. In new citizens, we believe that this is a step in the right direction, but we would like to go further. As recently as December the police had to take arrests in large parts of Denmark in a major terrorist case, and two weeks ago the police again arrested a man who was also among those arrested in December. Center for Terror Analysis, which includes: is part of Police Intelligence, released last month with an assessment of the terrorist threat against Denmark. Here it says, and I quote: 'Military Islamists continue to pose the main terrorist threat to Denmark, and this threat is serious... The threat arises primarily from sympathisers of the group that calls itself Islamic State (IS). These are primarily persons associated with certain Islamist environments in Denmark, where activities are taking place that may have a radicalising effect on the participating persons and that may lead to individual or smaller groups committing terrorist acts. This is what we saw in Copenhagen in February 2015, when Finn Nørgaard and Dan Uzan were shot and killed by an Islamic terrorist during the terrorist attack at the Krudtkønde and the synagogue in Krystalgade. I am reminded of the monstrous attack every time I go from my office down here to the Assembly Hall, because on that road there are two plaques: one for Finn and one for Dan. It is clear that better tools are needed to combat terrorism in Denmark, and that is why we naturally support this proposal. However, we also believe that the penalties should be tightened up further, which is why we are proposing more independent amendments. The starting point for the government is that the penal framework for, for example, terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the seizure of terror, the financing of terrorism and training for terrorism should increase by two years. We believe that there should be an increase of at least four years and, at the same time, we propose that the bill should state that convicted terrorists should be deprived of Danish citizenship and that foreigners who commit terrorist acts should be expelled forever, regardless of the possible decision of the European Court of Human Rights, because Danish law should apply in Denmark. That is also our position when it comes to the residence and contact bans, and the bans must be able to be imposed forever and not just for 1-10 years, as the government proposes. There is no reasonable reason why such bans are not life-long for convicted terrorists and, of course, such bans must also include close family members. In the government's bill, for example, a brothers who are convicted of terrorism cannot be imposed on them, and this is completely incomprehensible and absurd. Of course, they should not be allowed to sit together under a black flag and exchange IS sympathies and ideas. New citizens support the bill and we look forward to the work of the committee. We also hope that a majority in the Folketing will support our amendment proposal. They are the expression of common sense and they will protect Denmark and the Danes. We must ensure a free and secure country for our children and grandchildren. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424112841	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in line is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424112859	Thank you. We believe that terrorism throughout this century, and especially since 2015, has been one of the most serious threats to Denmark's security. That's what the government's threat assessments do regularly say it is. Terrorism is also a threat to our rights. There has been a lot of talk in this debate about constitutional rights. What terrorism does is that it undermines a right such as this. freedom of expression. People are afraid to use their freedom of expression. It undermines freedom of religion. That's what we heard about just now. In particular, it undermines the freedom of religion of the Jewish congregation. And it also undermines to some extent the freedom of assembly, because we have had to have stricter security measures. So this is a very serious matter. That is why we also think that the punishments proposed in the draft law are correct. I would like to quote one of my favourite Social Democrats, Helmut Schmidt, who had a great deal of experience in combating terrorism in the 1970s. He talked about the need to drain the sympathy swamp, and this draining this swamp of sympathizers is actually also very, very important. There we are taking some steps in the right direction with this bill. So all in all, this is a very good bill, which we support in the Liberal Alliance. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424113049	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. Here we go, sir. Sikandar Siddique as a privateist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424113114	Thank you for the floor. Today the month of Ramadan begins, and that is why I would like to start by wishing everyone a happy Ramadan. Secondly, I would like to thank the Minister, the government, the Social Democrats for repeatedly putting citizens' security on the agenda, again and again, to think about how we can secure our citizens, our country against democracy-haters, against IS sympathisers, against right-wing extremists, against Nazis, yes, against all those who want to harm our free, liberal, open democratic society. That's how far we agree. We agree on the objective, but that is the means, the method for which I am concerned. For once again, in this Chamber, we are debating a proposal whose intention is good, but which unfortunately also undermines the fundamental rights on which our free democratic society is founded. I think that is the wrong way to go. I think that is a slippery slope, a dangerous slippery slope, and I am not alone in thinking so. The Court of Justice, Justitia, Department of Human Rights, etc. etc. yelling guard in rifle. They all say: be careful not to trade in our freedoms. We cannot fight undemocratic people and elements by undemocratic means. We must safeguard our freedoms. I therefore hope that when the proposal comes to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, we will ensure that fundamental rights are guaranteed in the proposal and that we combat these enemies of democracy in a smart way. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424113357	Thank you. Mrs. Inger Løjberg, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424113414	Thank you. First of all, I may not quite understand the point of wishing everyone a good Ramadan in this Chamber, but that is the way it is. Next, I would like to ask whether Mr. Sikandar Siddique agrees that there is, of course, a judge who has decided that we should keep an extra eye on these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424113440	Excuse me, but I have to ask Mrs Inger Løjberg if something has been wrong here, because I did not just hear the introduction.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424113443	No, I just said that maybe I didn't quite understand the point of standing and wishing each other a happy Ramadan in here in the Assembly Hall. However, there may be different aspects of the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424113445	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424113447	Now I was inspired by the fact that a few months ago we celebrated Christmas, as we do in Denmark, and there I noticed that from the platform here too the Folketing and the Danes wanted to have a good Christmas. And then I thought that the 320,000 Danish Muslims who are in Denmark can of course also use the opportunity in the name of diversity to wish a good Ramadan. That's just why I did it. The problem is not that there is a judge who gives a verdict on a contact ban. The problem is that without a court order, you can go into people's homes and raid, go into people's homes and mess with their computer. It is a showdown, it is a weakening of fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424113552	So I feel the urge to say that it may not be the tradition that we do as I hear we have done. So I would just like to raise one objection to that. Here you go, Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424113603	Yes, I know that Denmark is a Christian country, but fortunately it is also a country with freedom of religion, which means that one has the right to believe and think and speak exactly as one wishes within the framework of legislation. However, I do not think it is quite unnatural to wish you a merry Christmas in Parliament, that is to say the President of Parliament does. But that is not what the discussion is about now. My question was, in effect, whether Mr. Sikandar Siddique agrees that there is, after all, a judge who has taken a position on whether these people are so dangerous that one has to have a second look at them. And that's kind of just what it was all about, and not all kinds of extravagance talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424113645	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424113649	Denmark is also a diverse country, Denmark is a country with different religions, and we must pay tribute to that. We must pay tribute to diversity and we must accept diversity, because it has come to stay. The problem with the proposal in relation to the warrant is that the police, the authorities, on the basis of this contact and residence ban, can enter people's homes and violate privacy. And that is where the challenge arises. So, once you've endured your punishment, it's a Danish legal principle that then this contact and residence ban means that even if you've endured your sentence, you're still considered a criminal. These are the things that make me think that the objective is real enough, that the objective is right, because we must:
ParlaMint-DK_20200424113811	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424113824	To begin with, I would just like to say that yes, we have freedom of religion, but we do not have religion. So it's like I said. With regard to the matter of entering private homes without a court order, I would say that we are talking here about people convicted of terrorism. And I find it very strange that the alternative rapporteur believes that it is so important that the security and security of the Danes should simply be set aside completely to ensure that there is a convicted terrorist who can be given the opportunity to make new plans again if you have a real opportunity to enter the home. So I'm just wondering why it's more important to protect the convicted terrorist than the safety and security of the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424113908	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424113913	Now Mrs Mette Thiesen is making a strawman, and I am of course not surprised. Of course, I'm not surprised that the Ramadan greeting...
ParlaMint-DK_20200424113920	I think we should stop with the Ramadan greeting. That discussion is, like, over. Let's stick to it. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424113927	Now I get flashback to another episode that also took place here in the Assembly Hall. But okay, we'll listen to what the President says. Second Vice-President This is what is being done). And then I won't answer that part of Mrs Mette Thiesen's question. Mrs Mette Thiesen, I am of the opinion that we are precisely running the business of terrorists by hollowing out the shield that citizens have against attacks by the state. I believe that by going down the path of undermining legal certainty, fundamental rights, we are precisely helping to weaken the security of our citizens. Then we may look at it differently, but I think that all the time, piece by piece, slowly, but surely we go in and tamper with and destroy the fundamental rights that we in Denmark have spent 200 years fighting to create this free, open democratic society and go errands of terrorists, because that is what the terrorists want. The terrorists want this free, open, liberal democratic society no longer to exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424114055	Thank you for that, rapporteur. It's Mrs. Mette Thiesen again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424114059	After all, the rapporteur has come a long way. No, I cannot in any way imagine that it is the terrorists' wish that the police can go into their homes at any time and make sure that they do not plan new terrorism. I find that very difficult to imagine the terrorists wishing to do so. But it is, of course, about where it is that you weigh it, and that is why my first question was very, very relevant. What the rapporteur is saying now is that we are so concerned about not violating the terrorist, to violate the convicted terrorist, so that the security and security of the Danes are actually at risk, and that is what amazes me greatly. Now, as I said, the rapporteur has come a long way, but I would really like the rapporteur to just answer my question: why is it so important for the rapporteur to protect the so-called rights of this terrorist? In my optics, there's a big difference. Once you have been convicted of a terrorist, you have simply written off a great many things, and then, as a society, we must ensure that these terrorists do not commit these terrorist acts again. Of course, that is something that needs to be ensured, and I really don't care how violated the terrorists are.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424114205	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424114209	Again, Mrs. Mette Thiesen makes a strawman. I can just say that we look at democracy with different eyes. I emphasize democracy and the rule of law everywhere. Mrs Mette Thiesen has also said on several occasions that conventions and such things should not be of any concern to us, and I also know that new citizens have proposals which, for example, do not concern us. discriminates against religion. That is to say, if you are from a Muslim country, you should not be able to have citizenship, etc. I just have to say that I see democracy and the rule of law and free democratic values differently from what Mrs Mette Thiesen does fortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424114252	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424114303	Thank you. When you become so extreme that you go down to the Islamic State and cut people's heads off, or you blow bombs in Denmark, or you shoot innocent people at the Krudtøden, when you become so extreme and you might get a conviction in a court of law, can the rapporteur guarantee that, once you have delivered your sentence, you are completely radicalised, that you are completely away from the thoughts that made you kill other people?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424114331	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424114338	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424114341	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424114345	Why, then, is it that one can be against someone, when convicted by a judge of this terrorism, being watched afterwards, precisely to make sure that these crazy thoughts have come out of their head so that one can make sure that it is a person who does not commit the same crimes against Denmark again?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424114352	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424114424	We are in complete agreement on the It's just the means and the method we don't agree on. I have been brought up with the fact that one never compromises with democracy, that one never compromises with freedoms, but that fundamental rights are guaranteed at all times. Because if we do not, we are moving down the path where we are not free liberal democracy, which is above all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424114449	Thank you. The next rapporteur, sir. I think Jeppe Bruus has asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424114452	Thank you. I understand that the rapporteur here is opposed to this bill, and that is entirely legitimate. But then I think we are making the mistake of using some very basic means of explaining that resistance. Last year, I actually agreed with Parliament that it was with the Alternative, when the rapporteur was at the time I was not supposed to be able to say whether it was before or after the elections, but it was in agreement that supervision and inspections could be carried out in relation to money laundering, in relation to consumer loans, in relation to the tobacco sector, and we have had the opportunity in the past that SKAT has been able to go in and control professional construction on private property, etc. etc. Has it also been a completely pervading step of such constitutional dimensions? Or why could it really be supported by the parties with which the rapporteur also works?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424114541	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424114544	With respect to the question, I am not actually sure that it was while I was in the Folketing and now for a party that I do not represent.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424114559	Okay, but let me ask you another question. So, in the fight against social dumping, should we be able to monitor license plates at the borders so that we can keep an eye on what kind of trucks drive in and out? To be able to control companies, to suspect that they are using social dumping and so on. etc., that is, a number of the areas where we use some of these tools? Then I understand that there is a difference here from the fact that it is people who have been convicted and you enter their private property. It is also like what I was discussing with the Radical Left. But please stop swinging it up to the fact that we are practically running the business of terrorists here. These are persons who have been convicted and who, by a judge, have a residence and contact ban imposed by a judge, enabling the police to exercise enhanced supervision. I do not understand how, when it is a judge who imposes a residence and contact ban, it can be a fundamental move in relation to the way in which it normally works, in which we adopt some legislation, the government executes it, and the courts are, as such, the judges.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424114659	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424114703	Now it was a lot of questions that I shall try to answer. But, sir. Jeppe Bruus, it's not like I stand alone with this criticism. It is not the case that I am standing here and saying that the Minister, Mr. Nick Hækkerup, makes a proposal that puts an end to fundamental rights. It is also Justitia, it is judges, it is the Institute for Human Rights, it is of course many of the organisations, many of the consultative parties who are experts in this area. So it is not a concern that I have alone, but it is several parties, and it is experts in the area who say: hey, guard by gun, we are going down a slippery slope. And that must make an impression. That must also impress Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424114749	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? There isn't, and then we can move on, and that's the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424114808	Thank you. Thank you for the debate, and thank you for the broad support for the legislative proposal as it stands. There are several rapporteurs who have started their remarks by saying that they are opposed to terrorism, that everyone in the Folketing is opposed to terrorism, and that this is something that we must take strong action against, and we agree on that. It's gonna be a little bit of a matter of principle, and I want to start somewhere else. I want to start with a story that I read in the German journal Der Spiegel about a year ago. It deals with the foreign warriors, and there is then a German Islamist who has been down to fight for the Islamic State, and who along the way in the process makes a facebook post where he writes: Do you know what the best thing about my fight, with my jihad, for Allah? He answers the question himself. His answer is: The best thing was to shoot and kill three of my enemies, all of whom were unbelievers. Then he describes that he took one of his victims' cell phones and called the woman on the contact list who was at the top, and told her that he was standing with his foot on the victim's head, and the woman began screaming. That's what he was most proud of. Then some time goes by, and then he goes to a detention camp, and then the tone changes, for then he writes to his family in Germany: I miss you; you may have heard that I have been taken prisoner. And in another letter he writes: Mom, how are you all? Do you know how I can get out? What do the authorities say? I just want to go home; I just want to get out of here. It wasn't the same warrior hero you heard in the first place. Why am I saying this? If he or someone like him came back to Denmark he doesn't, because he is German, so he doesn't, wouldn't it be good to keep an eye on him? Wouldn't it be appropriate to give him a prison sentence, so it washes itself for that behavior? Do you not think it would be sensible to put in place a ban on contact and residence so that we prevent him from radicalising others? That's really what this proposal is about. It is about saying that severe penalties must be imposed and that we must keep an eye on and monitor it, that there is no further radicalisation. For what is with the foreign warriors is that they are a threat to Denmark's security, our security, Denmark's rule of law and our freedoms. All this is built into the foundations of the legislative proposal that we are discussing today. That is why we have to adopt it, and that is why I am glad that there is a very, very broad majority in favour of it. Then a question has been raised which, in my view, is relevant enough, namely whether it is not a problem that a court order should not be sought every time these residence bans, contact bans, etc. are followed up. I think that we have to deal with the issue in principle and in practical terms. And if we are to start by dealing with it in principle, we can really start from a quote by Winston Churchill. At least it's attributed to him. It is also attributed to various others, but it is attributed to him most times, so now we say that it is he who has said it, and it sounds something like this: Winston Churchill is at a party and asks at one point a lady present: Miss, would you sleep with me for 5 million pounds? To this she answers: My good God, sir. Mr Churchill, I think that, of course, we will only have to discuss the detailed conditions. Then Winston Churchill asks: Would you sleep with me for five pounds? To this the woman answers: sir. Churchill, what kind of lady do you think I am? To this Mr Churchill says: Miss, we have already established this; what we are talking about now is the price. When I mention this, it is for those who stand in the Chamber today and say that this is a breach of the principles of legal certainty and the rule of law and that it is a slippery path against a police state. In principle, I have to say: that is why we always reject it, but those parties do not. Let me give you a few examples: the FSA can carry out supervision and inspection without a court order from companies without a court order, the FSA can carry out checks. Which parties voted in favour of this? All parties in the Assembly Hall! They can enter companies without a court order. Another example is that the Danish Business Administration can carry out inspections without a court order from companies and individuals, just like what we are talking about today, just like what is in this proposal. Which parties voted in favour of this? All parties in the Assembly Hall! Let me give you one more example: the Security Agency has the possibility of accessing public and private properties and premises of manufacturers of tobacco products and herbal smoke products without a court order. Which parties voted in favour of this? All parties! One can then say: yes, yes, but now it is the social democracy and the bourgeois who are together. Can there be no examples at all that the Left, contrary to the wishes of the bourgeois, has said that we should have the right to do this without a court order? Well, there can be too. The Labour Inspectorate has access to public and private workplaces without a court order. Who voted in favour of this? SF? Yeah. Radical Left? Yeah. Enhedslisten? Yeah. Social democracy? Yeah. So the point of saying that not having a court order is a move against a police state and an undermining of our community of law cannot be taken as a matter of principle, because then we could not have voted in this way in the other situations. That is to say, it only means it when it comes to combating terrorism. So it is okay to do so if tobacco products are to be checked. But if someone like him, as I mentioned before, is to be controlled, it is an attack on the rule of law. It must be clear to everyone that it does not last. It doesn't hold up in principle. Then, of course, you can say to yourself: we can do it practically, that is, the thing about catching up on a court order before you have to take these steps. But if you have not done so in a number of these examples, it is because what the judge normally decides in connection with a court order is precisely whether there is a suspicion that something has been committed so that we can allow the legal steps to be taken. But that is not what we are talking about here at all. After all, it is a question of following up on someone who has been convicted. What's the judge's assessment? There is no basis for suspicion to assess. If you find something, when you are inside and examine it, it is caught up in the ordinary rules of law, and then the whole bourgeois music comes with a court order, etc. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come So the point of saying that this proposal is particularly problematic because there is a possibility of exercising control without a court order does not stand. It just doesn't work out. This is a matter of taking care of Denmark. This is a matter of safeguarding our security, our security, our rule of law and our freedoms. That is what this is all about. Actually, I think it was.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424115736	There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424115753	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for the speech. I would like to start by saying that I am a little worried about comparing supervision and control of the durability of food or working positions in a workplace with interventions in private homes and breaches of letter secrecy. With this bill, it is the third time in a short time that the government is proposing to restrict Danes' freedoms by by bypassing the courts when the authorities have to penetrate citizens' private homes without prior or subsequent court order; first a bill earlier in the session, then the epidemic law, where fortunately there was a majority pushing through an amendment, and now this bill. I would therefore like to know whether, on this wonderful spring day, last Friday in April, the Minister could give a promise that the government will not put forward any further legislative proposals proposing to bypass the courts when it comes to entering the private home without a court order.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424115852	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424115853	I think it is more relevant to hear whether the Radical Left will promise the same thing. Because, as I said, a shortcut has been taken on many occasions, including on the part of the Radical Left, when, as was also mentioned, it was a matter of working positions, and so on, private housing, which was okay to strike; there it was okay to skip. But when it comes to combating terrorism, and when it comes to the foundations on which Denmark stands, in the opinion of the Radical Left, it is not okay. It is incomprehensible to me, it is simply incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424115931	Here you go, sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424115932	Once again, we compare supervision at a workplace with the fundamental rights of the citizens, which are the inviolability of housing; which is that we cannot simply intrude and look at computers and data and such things. That is why I am surprised that the Minister will not answer the question of whether one can promise that there will now be no further restrictions on the freedom of the Danes when it comes to bypassing the courts, what might remind us of a small step towards a police state. What the Minister could say now was: now we have done what we want, and now we must do nothing more when it comes to restricting the Danes' freedoms and bypassing the courts when it comes to visiting the private home.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424120013	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424120014	But it is not a relevant distinction to say that these cases are some other than those which the Radical Left has supported several times. So, do you have to go in with private people and take these steps that are intrusive, without a court order? Yes or no? And I just have to say that history shows that the Radical Left has supported it many times. Now it has been decided because it is some who want to undermine the foundation on which the Danish state stands that we must suddenly not use those tools. So I am completely incomprehensible and incoherent and weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424120052	Thank you. Then we have a new one with a brief comment, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424120105	Thank you. I'm actually just gonna check with the Justice Minister if you're gonna keep an eye on this and how. Because I think that some of what is really, really crucial when you make this kind of legislation, which I believe contains major interventions, is that you also keep an eye on whether it actually works. After all, the Minister is right that the Enhedslisten has previously voted for things without a warrant, and that is because we have had a belief in and have had concrete, firm figures that it has worked, for example, that it has worked. has helped to stop social dumping. It is, in fact, a bit the same discussion that we have sometimes had about license plate recognition and other television surveillance. So I really want to hear from the Minister how they intend to keep an eye on this. In the Enhedslisten we are going to propose a sunset clause in 3 or 5 years, so that we get this discussion again, and so we have the opportunity to handle this work and this bill. But I just want to hear what the Minister thinks about how this should be followed up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424120210	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424120211	I think that's an interesting point of view, that is, if it works, it's okay. If it works to make these steps without a warrant, it's okay. I think that is a matter of reflection, even in relation to some of the examples I mentioned earlier, which were adopted without any evidence of its effectiveness. However, I think it is relevant to provide information, and I should very much like to do so in the course of the process we are going through, with the bill now how we have the opportunity to follow up on what the impact of these actions is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424120243	Here you go, Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424120244	Thank you. Then I also think that the Minister for Justice said something else very interesting in his speech, namely that it is good to keep an eye on people so that they do not commit new terrorism. I agree with that very much, and now we come back to a funny discussion, because that has been my and Enhedslisten's argument for bringing Danish citizens home from IS prisoner camps in Syria. But there the government does not think that you should keep an eye on it. So there are also some discussions here that I feel we have good, Minister of Justice, that you do not want to keep an eye on whether these people are committing new terrorism, but want to keep an eye on whether these people are committing new terrorism. I think that's a little funny. But I hear the Minister's positive statement that we have to follow this up one way or another.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424120331	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424120332	Well, in any case, we'll keep an eye on them. We are very much in favour of local prosecution. We want to avoid them coming to Denmark, but if they come here, we must keep a close eye on them, and that is what this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424120353	Thank you. And I shall start to stand up when the speaking time is up, so that the rapporteurs can concentrate on what they want to say. No, it's first Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, so I apologize. We have to help each other in this when it all goes down. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424120410	Thank you for the floor. I just want to hear from the Minister for Justice whether it is not an unusual practice for criminal proceedings in the legislation we have in the very specific area, which is typically very regulated, to start using this kind of option, in other words without a warrant. This is usually the principle that is, like, at the heart of criminal justice and when we pass judgments. And I think it differs slightly from the other areas for which the Minister mentions the SF quite rightly. Each time we have had the debate on non-criminal proceedings, we have also proclaimed that we think it might be appropriate to have court orders in more places than we have today. But would the Minister not agree that it is actually an unusual tool for us to start dragging it in here, where we should have the most rights, because something is at stake and people are being convicted?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424120516	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424120518	I think we should make a little distinction here and say that a large number of the situations in which a court order is required and so on. in criminal proceedings, after all, lies before the police will conduct some kind of home investigation, what do I know, wiretap or anything, and catch up on a court order to do so before a judgment has been given. There's been a verdict here. And that is why I am also saying that it is a little difficult to know exactly what it is that the judge should verify in that situation, because it is not, of course, a matter of suspicion. It is a question of following up a relationship that has already been condemned. It is true that there are plenty of examples outside criminal law that you have to intervene as if it were in criminal justice, where you would normally say that there was a court order. But there are also examples in criminal law that such steps can be taken here without a court order, for example. in relation to follow-up of convicted pedophiles.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424120620	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424120622	But in my optics it would be a case for PET, because in reality what you are doing here is some kind of investigation. I am sure the Minister will disagree with me on this, but it really is. When we monitor people, we typically go down and ask for a court order to be allowed to monitor them. Then it may be that something pops up along the way in the investigation, which means that you have to catch up and do more, but it's really a matter for our intelligence services to keep an eye on these people. That's one thing. Then the minister didn't really address this with the Department of Criminal Services. Are the punishments contained in the proposal financed? Is there going to be a small grant for the D.C.?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424120706	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424120707	The last part first: this proposal has been proposed to be financed within the existing financial framework in the field of the Ministry of Justice. After all, what the rapporteur knows about is right in front of negotiations on the police and the prosecution and can therefore easily take it into account there. As far as criminal justice is concerned, as the rapporteur was also kind enough to say in his speech, it has just been possible to provide the criminal services with additional means to deal with the punishments and the heavy burden on the area at the moment, just as we are in the process of negotiating a new settlement for criminal justice in 2021, which will also be able to take these things into account. Then I just want to say about the police intelligence service that the police intelligence service is holding and that's important.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424120757	Thank you. The next to make a brief comment is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424120805	Thank you. I would also like to start by talking a little about funding. I heard the Minister replying to the part that was about criminal justice, but is that the full funding? Because I think that a little more money was mentioned in the draft law, up to EUR 13 million. kr., as I remember. Is that new money? Is this something to be negotiated, or what does the Minister think it should be financed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424120829	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424120831	That is exactly what I said, namely that the draft law provides for funding within the existing framework, but that we are on the verge of negotiations on the whole financial framework of our police and prosecutor's office, which must, of course, deal with part of this, including for example. the follow-up to the contact and residence ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424120848	Okay, thanks. If we now agree that these people are some of the most extreme and some who really need to keep an eye on, then I would like to hear what is then the reason why it has been incorporated into the draft law, that after three years you can go to a judge and have it removed again. I do not understand the reason why this is included when it is so extreme people, and also relatively high penalties, that are being imposed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424120917	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424120918	That is because the aim of the contact and residence ban is to prevent further radicalisation. If people are allowed to develop there, to say that there is no longer any risk, then there is no reason to have a ban on contact and residence.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424120935	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424120941	I would just like to say a word of thanks to the Minister for the clear statement of position expressed by the Minister in his speech, for actually showing the hypocrisy of the left in this area and clearly rejecting and at the same time pointing out that it is apparently so important for the left to support terrorists and to look after their welfare, which is quite crazy when they are clearly indifferent in other areas. So this is really just a thank you to the Minister for that clear statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424121025	Thank you, and be my guest if it calls for a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424121028	Yes, it does, because there I think it has to be said that more was read into it than what I just said. I did not mention hypocrisy at all. I just said that I think that if you want to deal with it in principle and you have a principle, it must apply all around. I was just trying to say that I do not think there are examples of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424121047	Thank you. And thank you for that). That's it. Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424121114	The debate is open. Mrs. Marie Bjerre, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424121207	Thank you. The bill here is a complex legislative proposal with a number of amendments to the Environmental Protection Act. Basically, however, we are implementing the extended producer responsibility for waste in Danish law. Firstly, we are implementing the EU Waste Change Directive, which lays down new minimum requirements for the existing extended producer responsibility for, among other things. electronics. Secondly, we are implementing the EU's Packaging Amendment Directive, which, as a new measure, introduces increased producer responsibility for packaging. An extended producer responsibility, in which producers are given responsibility for their products when they turn into waste, basically we think that is sensible. Indeed, it should provide the right incentives for producers to develop more environmentally friendly products, which can thus be recycled and recycled. If future generations are to feel at least as well as we do and have at least as many opportunities as we do, then we need to look after our resources a little better. Too much waste is burned or worse: it ends in nature. And we are not at all skilled enough to sort and recycle, and certainly not in relation to household waste, when we compare ourselves with our European neighbours. The municipalities have very different systems for sorting, and far too many places still do not sort at all. That is why the Left fully supports the ambition that we should improve and strengthen our waste sorting. And for me personally, I might as well say that it was one of my most important political issues when I conducted an election campaign to the Folketing almost 1 year ago. My slogan was: All plastic must be recycled not all politicians; vote in new forces. Now I am standing here and I have to say that it is a great pleasure to stand here and deal with a legislative proposal that should help us to get there. However, I must also note that the draft law is primarily a law of authorisation; all the good intentions must subsequently be implemented at the level of notice by the Minister. These are regulations for electrical and electronic equipment, regulations for batteries, regulations for cars and, last but not least, regulations for packaging. Detailed rules must be laid down, ranging from product design to waste sorting, collection and management rules. We must admit that it makes sense to do so, as producer responsibility requires a great deal of detailed rules and regular regulatory adjustments are needed. But the fact that we give the Minister such wide powers worries me too. It does not really matter how the directive is actually implemented at all. The detailed implementation of the regulatory framework will have major economic and organisational consequences for both producers, industry and municipalities. And then the coinage itself is crucial to how quickly we set up our waste system so that we can support the much-needed demand for recycled material. Here we need to bring in business so that we can create real incentives so that it is not just a matter of getting more red taxes on business that we have unfortunately seen before, most recently with taxes on one-off services. To put it bluntly, we are concerned that the provisions are simply too broad. We need to be more precise about the consequences and to clarify how we can ensure that there is a more uniform separation of citizens and to clarify the role played by producers in order to ensure that they play a central role. What will be the cost to consumers? How is organisational responsibility lifted? How can we standardize the collection so that it can be done across the municipalities? There are a great many questions, and that is why I would also suggest that we take these many questions in consultation in committee so that we can get them all answered. And then I hope that, when she goes to the platform in a few moments, the Minister will say a little about how the government will ensure the political involvement of the other parties of the Folketing in the forthcoming implementation of the law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424121634	Thank you. We can then give the floor to Mrs Mette Gjerskov, but I would just like to make it clear that you must be in place in the Chamber when it is your turn. But we'll take Mrs. Mette Gjerskov here as number two, instead of finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424121654	Thank you for the floor. I shall start by saying to the President that I have been sitting out behind those glass doors for two hours waiting for my turn, to be sure to be here on time and present according to the new Corona rules, where we are not allowed to go into the Chamber, but to stay in the back. Perhaps it would have been very nice if there could have been a tiny amount of flexibility so that we could get in when the other rapporteurs had gone out. I do not feel sloppy today; I have just sat and waited and observed the rules. When it comes to the bill, we have a big task ahead of us when we are going to make Denmark a more sustainable society, a more circular society, because that is what we need to do. When we buy a product, we need to know that it can be recycled, that it can be split up into different parts, which can be recycled and circulated back to a new product, something for plastic, something for batteries, something for metals, etc. etc. In the future that we look into, more producers must bear greater responsibility for their products, even when products turn into waste. So the bill we are discussing today is actually an important piece of the task, because we are establishing the necessary provisions so that the future can be realized. The bill is divided three ways. Firstly, we are beginning to implement the minimum requirements of the EU Waste Directive in the existing extended producer liability schemes. We need to meet the minimum requirements of the European Union. We are standardising existing and new systems as much as possible. It has to be simple, and it is therefore also one thing that is really, really important. It must be as simple as possible for producers to meet the requirements. We have to help them. Secondly, we need to start establishing an extended producer responsibility for several types of packaging. Here we must follow the EU's packaging directive. Well, we are in a situation where plastics have gradually become an inevitable part of our nature. We need to change that, and with the bill here we are taking the first steps to get more packaging into a circular system and ensure recycling to ensure that it is recycled so that the resources do not just disappear, so that we use and use them sensibly and they do not end up in nature. The third part of the bill is that we must modernise the legislation on the collection and processing of electronics. We are far too prone to throw out electronics, and a large part of what goes out still works, or it can be repaired. But we give that up; we buy new ones and the resources of the planet are being strained. With the bill, we can ensure better recycling of electronics, which still meet environmental requirements, and ensure that citizens can have confidence that both data and electronics are handled securely, because this is also an important element of it. Here we are implementing one of the initiatives in the agreement between the Left, Conservatives, LA, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left on coining pool for strategy for circular economy. We have seen in the past how producer responsibility leads to major improvements. Our mortgage and return system is a great example. This bill is not a concrete act, but it is an important proposal that gives the necessary provisions to the Minister for the Environment so that she can work for a more circular system. Our future must be more sustainable, it must be circular. The amount of waste produced today must be recycled. What is not recycled is unsustainable. More waste, more packaging must be recycled. It is not just a contribution to a sustainable society in Denmark. It is a contribution to the sustainable transformation of the whole world in line with the UN's global goals. This is a step in the right direction, in a more sustainable direction, and that is why we, of course, support the proposal from the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424122118	Thank you. And then there is a brief comment from Mrs Bjerre, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424122122	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. The rapporteur mentions that this is an implementing law, which is why I think it is very relevant to ask what the Social Democratic Party thinks in terms of practical implementation politically. What I would like to ask is sorting, in other words what the Social Democrats think about sorting. Should there be a uniform sorting out in the municipalities and determined centrally, in relation to how to sort in which fractions? Or should it continue to be up to the municipalities to make their own solutions, in relation to how to sort and in what factions?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424122214	I know there are a number of discussions going on in this particular area. I don't think anyone can tell you how it ends right now. But I would like to say that I would like us to ensure that all waste in Denmark was collected in the same way, because that is what is being asked about. In fact, I would like to go so far as to say that on any product you buy there was a small label stating whether it should be in the green or the red or the yellow trash can. Because then we have secured it entirely from the producer stage. But it's a little forward thinking, so when we get there, I don't know.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424122252	Indeed, there are a great many political discussions going on about how to involve this, and that is why I think it is so relevant to have the political debate on it. What do you think of sorting? In other words, should some municipalities still be allowed to say: we are not sorting out here at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424122307	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424122313	I'm absolutely sure that's gonna stop. When it stops, the questioner should ask the Minister. But we have to have more waste recycled in this country, and that means that everyone has to take part in it. This bill is now all about producer responsibility, so it is not about collecting waste or about municipalities and things like that. It is primarily a question of producer responsibility that we are concerned with, and it is, of course, about the fact that producers, even when they produce the product, must be fully aware of how to sort and divide that product when it is not to be used anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424122354	Thank you. Was that a brief comment, sir? René Christensen? Yeah, go ahead. I got a good tip, so I'm gonna announce who's next on the platform, because it's gonna take a little longer. There are no more people immediately, but you can mark if there are more questions to the rapporteur. Here you go, sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424122411	Thank you, President, and also thank the rapporteur for a good rapporteur's speech. There is much that the Danish People's Party agrees with regarding how we should look forward, also in relation to our collection. After all, this is the first big lump that comes in relation to looking at extended producer responsibility. What we decide today is, of course, to give the Minister the authority to be able to carry out and implement these rules. It is, of course, at the notice level that most of the work must be carried out. Can the rapporteur not be a little uneasy about the fact that there are changing ministers and that there may be changing attitudes? So the whole authority is given to the Minister here. In the Danish People's Party we agree with the intentions, we also agree with the rapporteur's speech, but believe that we should somehow resolve this together. After all, no one knows the way to the end result, and so it would be good with more eyes and more ears than to translate it here. So does the rapporteur not agree that some way or another we should have framed how we put this into practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424122517	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424122519	Firstly, we do have the implementation of some EU rules, and they often give themselves up. But in addition, it is my experience that the Minister for the Environment is able to talk to about this sort of thing. I just think it is important that we stick to the fact that there are some things that are the responsibility of ministers to resolve.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424122548	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424122549	That is true, but it is also true that once the Minister has been authorised, the Minister can use it. If you do not agree, you have to express distrust of the Minister. So the tool Parliament has for the Minister is to overthrow the Minister. It is not certain that the Folketing would like to do so. It should be remembered that it is not always the same minister who sits; it may be different ministers. But what we are doing here in such an important area and in an area where we may not quite know where we end up, but where we all agree that we should end up in a good place is that the Folketing, with this legislation, is now handing over competence to the minister in office at all times, and the tool that remains is mistrust. Does the rapporteur not agree that it is a rather violent tool that the Folketing has with a minister who is present at all times?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424122633	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424122634	It is clear that I am of course glad that the Danish People's Party does not want to overthrow the Minister for the Environment. I think both she and I are really happy with that. As I recall, the comments on the draft law state that the organisation of the waste sector will be based on the current organisation of the waste sector at all times. In fact, there is an agreement on the waste sector, an agreement which seems to be back from 2007, and the agreements with this law are not necessarily terminated. The agreements that have been concluded must be taken as a starting point. This means that there will of course be a dialogue on the circular economy and on waste organization with other parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424122732	Thank you. Then there's no more questioners, and then it's sir. René Christensen as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424122748	Thank you for that, President. This is, of course, a rather important proposal that we are dealing with here. First of all, I must say that this is a proposal that is about implementing EU legislation. Often and often, as a representative of the Danish People's Party, I stand here thundering against the EU coming with too much, but it has to be said here that it really makes sense that we have uniform rules in the European Union. Otherwise, it would be the case that each Member State should invent the deep plate and how could producers possibly work in it? Then a product would be in one way if it were to be sold in Denmark and in another way if it were to be sold in another country. So it makes absolutely sense to have some common rules in this area. That is how the external framework is for it, but when that is said, of course, the Member States have • and it is very good that different approaches are made to how to implement it. What is being proposed here is, of course, as you can see, and the previous rapporteurs have also said, that there are like three steps in the first legislation that we are doing here. All of this is that the Minister will, of course, be given the authority to lay down minimum requirements within the existing rules laid down in EU legislation. Where the Danish People's Party sees the challenges, although we are very positive about the proposal here, is precisely on the question of how we implement the legislation. It has been asked about this in the past, and I also asked the Socialist rapporteur about it, namely that this is, of course, about producer responsibility, but that ultimately it is also about collection. For producer responsibility is also about how to produce products and how it can then be recycled. In other words, things go hand in hand. The product is produced and subsequently collected, and then it has to be recycled. There are a lot of questions about how we do it. As the rapporteur of the Left also asked, it is about how we should do it in Denmark. Does it have to be in 98 different ways or in one way? That is certainly one of the questions being asked. Is that what the state has to do? Are the municipalities responsible for this? Should we outsource it and let the private people handle it? How do we ensure that costs are as low as possible? Because this is gonna be a cost, but it's also gonna be a resource. Today we see waste as a residual product. We in Denmark have been incredibly good at handling the residue. Actually, we've been some of the leaders. We burned it off. It is a very old-fashioned technology that we use in Denmark. It's a technology we've been leading, and we're good at it. We have developed our entire district heating system by burning waste. We've made electricity by burning waste. That's where we're going to think in a whole new way. That is why I cannot help smiling when I look at the speech by the Minister. Here the Minister writes: "The extended producer responsibility for packaging must maintain and improve the current high level of recycling and environmental protection with a sharper focus...... You just have to say, it's probably a little tighter than that. In Denmark we are actually quite poor at recycling. We are good at collecting, we are good at ensuring that waste does not end up in nature, but we are not very good at recycling. We need to get better at that. So when I look at the overall proposal here, L 112, I will not say today that we can just vote for it as it stands. We would very much like to support what the Left also proposed, namely that we should have a consultation with the Minister, where we can have a dialogue with each other on how this should be implemented. We fully agree that this should be at the notice level, otherwise we should sit down here every time and have three treatments to make small adjustments. But in the future there will be a lot of adjustments in this area because, to use an expression that the government is using very much at the moment, we are laying the asphalt while we are driving. We are going to do the same here. And how do we get this good dialogue with the industry, municipalities, waste companies and citizens? Who's gonna sort it? The Socialist rapporteur mentioned that there may be a great many buckets in different colours. It may also be that in the future you will not have to sort very much, that you will have to sort in wet and dry, and then it will be driven to a place where there are machines that can sort it, so it is 100 per cent in order and so it is not the responsibility of the citizens to sort it out. We don't know where this ends, and that's why it's so exciting to work with politically. That is where we in the Danish People's Party are a little bit, I would not say nervous, but worried about whether there will be sufficient political involvement in the process that is coming in order to translate the things that need to be implemented. But we are very much in favour of the proposal and also hope that the Minister will be able to take a quick stand for a conciliation where we can have the opportunity to take these discussions politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424123230	Thank you, sir. René Christensen. Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424123239	In fact, it is a great day today, because the circular economy finally lands in this Chamber and at some point, hopefully very soon, also ends up as a concrete announcement work. I remember when I first heard about this cradle to cradle a little more than 10 years ago, it was because two filmmakers had read the book that was published at the time and that had that title. They had read it and were guys and flames and made contact with me. I don't really know why it was me, but I guess it was just because I was young and politically active, so they thought I had to be the kind of person you go to with good ideas and idealism. We had them in Radical Youth, in which I was then active, and we had a presentation. And I thought, this is crazy; it's really exciting, but it's also a bit like you had to land on the moon or something? I really think it is quite crazy that in the ten to fifteen years that have passed in the meantime, this agenda has moved from being precisely an idealistic, but also in some way a rather unrealistic agenda, to being something completely, quite concrete, but also something extremely complex. That is also why the legislative proposal we are debating today is a legal act. It is not, of course, because there are not all kinds of political considerations in this legal framework. Both standardization, which is one of the things that must be done in the work of publication, organisation, the question of who is responsible for what and what the distribution of roles is, and also, to a large extent, financing, is provided for. So there are a great many major political issues where different interests must also be weighed against one another. It is the producer's interest, of course, to maintain a surplus on production. There are environmental interests that this is, of course, ultimately about. But there are also the interests of the existing waste sector, in other words, the question of what investments have already been made, and if this falls out in a certain way, then these investments will be lost? Should we move on to a whole new regime in the waste area where we have been used to burning a lot and getting warm out of it? What if we have to sort it out, and it might have to be part of new production instead of landing as heat in the Danish homes? There are so many questions here. There is also the question of who is to pick up the waste and so on. etc. So there is still a lot of politics in it, but it is also hypercomplex. That is why, of course, we would like to help to ensure that these very complex and diverse issues are dealt with where there is the necessary competence, namely in a government apparatus with competent officials, which also takes the time to meet with stakeholders and, of course, because there is a provision for follow-up groups. But it is also important for us that there should be political involvement, because there are interests here that cross and that sometimes you have to find out whose interests you have to listen to a little more than others or where the sensible compromise lies. That is why we are also interested, along with many others who have been up here, in the fact that at the same time there will be some kind of political process, also because, as I said right back at the beginning of my presentation, this is really a very, very idealistic project. And there is something strange about it if, suddenly, when idealism is where it is mature and needs to be realized, it becomes a technocratic project. There is, of course, a lot of technocracy in this, because it is a system that we need to get up and running, but there is also a lot of policy in getting that system set up to balance the various interests in the right way. We will, of course, keep an eye on this and follow it very closely, but we have such confidence in our minister, and we also have confidence in our ministry, too, if power were to be reversed, because, as I hear the whole of Parliament, this is also an agenda that is broadly supported and where everyone is aware that it is of course the environment and the resource and recycling perspective that is the driving factor in all this work. But, of course, there will also be some other considerations that need to be balanced in some way. But there I am actually confident that we in the Folketing can make a process where we follow it so that there will be political involvement. However, I do not really believe that this is an involvement of a character in which we are going to fight over it. I just do not think that we are there politically, where we think that we should just let it go politically and make it a question for a government and some officials. There are still so great political considerations and balances of interest that we must somehow expect some kind of involvement. With these words, we support this bill and, in fact, under technology, there is a lot of idealism and something that gives me hope that this is a place where we really are moving and moving together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424123759	Thank you. Then there is a new rapporteur, Mrs Anna Brændemose, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424123808	Thank you. The SF supports the proposal as we see it as a step in the right direction. An extended producer responsibility can only be welcomed and we would like to see all forms of production included in a circular cycle, as Denmark and the world are facing a very serious situation if we fail to recycle our resources better. We are simply not good enough to recycle the resources we use and we burn too much waste. It is an absolutely essential problem that we must resolve if we are to resolve the climate and natural crisis that we are facing. If all the people in the world had the same consumption as the average Dane, we could have marked the Earth Overshoot Day almost a month ago, namely March 28th. This day marks that we consume the rest of the year next year's resources. Imagine that this was an economy and that, from the end of March, the entire budget of the year and the rest of the year had been spent on next year's budget. To put it mildly, this would be seen as irresponsible financial management. The same is true with regard to our resources. This government action is therefore a step in the right direction and it is time for producers to take greater responsibility for their products. Moreover, I am aware that the Danish Nature Conservation Association supports the responsibility of the producer companies for calculating and reporting recycling rates and loss rates. I am in line with the Danish Nature Conservation Association on this issue and, in addition, I believe that we should continue to reward those companies that take a great deal of responsibility for their production and use easily recyclable materials. I also note that Plastic Change is critical of the fact that they are not part of the follow-up group set up for implementation. Plastic Change wants to be involved in the further work on implementation, which I think is reasonable, since Plastic Change is the leader in knowledge about plastic pollution and we need experts. When I started by saying that this is a step in the right direction, it is because we in the SF want us not to use the incineration of waste as early as 2032. This approach is important, but it is only the beginning. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424124011	Thank you. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line. Mrs. Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424124023	Thank you. We burn far too much waste and we recycle far too little. I think we all agree on that in here. This is very damaging to both our climate and our nature, where waste all too often ends up. We must not allow so much waste to go up in smoke and we must all improve. Recently I read an article I don't know if it's quite right which said that on average we use our newly bought clothes just six times before it's thrown out, and I think we all know how much electronics are being replaced just because the new model is a little smarter or the old one might have been designed to break up too soon. I must also admit that I myself, as a consumer, could sometimes be a little better. We need to break the curve we need to convert to circular economy, where we first recycle and then recycle. For all products in the future, of course, must be designed for recycling. After all, we in the Danish Parliament are currently discussing how the waste area best contributes to the climate action plan, and this is very much about the circular economy, but also about the organisation of the waste sector, and I am a little wondering how this bill is related to precisely these negotiations. It is clear that this is an EU regulatory framework that needs to be implemented, but perhaps it should form part of cooperation in those negotiations. At least I'm waiting for them to begin in excitement. It is important for the Enhedslisten that, although this bill gives the Minister more extensive powers, it should continue to be the Folketing which has the right to dispose of the waste sector. Parliament must not therefore be left out of influence there I would agree entirely with the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party. That is why I am also pleased that the Minister has stated orally that she wishes to accommodate Parliament and ensure it. I hope that we will be able to put this into practice so that, of course, this will be the intention of the legislation we are adopting. Basically, I think it is very good that we have increased producer responsibility, and in this legislative proposal it is about electronics and packaging, but it is also important that the way we organise it remains after the right solutions. I know that there are a lot of people who want greater liberalisation of the waste area, and I can actually worry a little about whether this bill can be a back door to this very thing. It's not something that Enhedslisten thinks is a good idea. We want municipalities and waste companies to be formally responsible for collecting and sorting, and we believe that responsibility should actually be defined in one way or another now, so that it is not just in the hands of the minister who is at the time sitting at the table end. I hope that the Minister will take a positive view of this. I also know that a number of municipalities have approached this particular issue. I believe that we must strengthen municipal efforts, but of course also ensure that all players in the value chain are given responsibilities and roles in binding cooperation. This applies to packaging, and I hope that we can look at this as well when we deal with this bill. If we do not succeed, I can be concerned that this amendment of the law will lead to waste being too much simply about making money and too little about climate and environmental considerations, which must be the first. But the most important thing in fact is that we develop some products through the producers, which are more environmentally friendly, and here I hope that we in the Folketing or in the forthcoming negotiations can make increased demands. I would like to see some tools, such as: could be a requirement for the use of recycled materials in certain products, that requirements could be applied for phasing out other products, repairability, design requirements or standardisation of certain materials in packaging which we know are on the way in the plastic field. That's really good. That is what leads us to be able to recycle much more, and it is really important for the climate. So I hope we can look at that together, either here or later in the treatment. Finally, I would like to say something about which I have received a request from several municipalities who want to copy how the laws in Belgium have been drawn up, where small social economic companies have been successfully introduced, with the possibility of recycling electronic waste, so that it can be sold again. This is, of course, a good way to ensure both some jobs, especially for some groups outside the labour market, and at the same time ensure recycling. It may be that we can consider giving some room for manoeuvre to do so with this law as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424124529	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424124540	I am responding to the remark made by the rapporteur about the concern that liberalism will be sneaked in through the back door. And that shows so very clearly that this is a very, very political bill. I believe that liberalisation in the whole area of waste is urgently needed. There are some clear challenges. So why is it that companies cannot pick up their incineration waste from private collectors instead of going to the municipality and being burned up? Does the rapporteur not want less waste to be incinerated? And what about when it comes to household waste where private people cannot sell or dispose of products for scrap? They can't get rid of a bike or an old gutter they have to deliver it to the municipality because the municipality owns the garbage. This means that a great many companies find it difficult to create private collection schemes from consumers. So I actually see a very obvious opportunity for us to relax the rules here. Will the Enhedslisten not be a part of this, and can the Enhedslisten not see that there are some challenges in this particular area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424124643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424124644	I think that there are major challenges in this area, but I do not really know whether they are what the questioner is pointing out. Because it is true that there are problems for companies in relation to the collection of waste, and we have to solve them. One of the problems, however, is that legislation has been liberalised in the past, so that it is not the municipalities that can pick up their waste so that smaller companies cannot actually be allowed to deliver it to the municipality. And many would like to be allowed to do so. So there I think we should be open to both models. I can be concerned that increased liberalisation could lead to the recycling of waste which is worth something economically and that the rest will end up in increased incineration. And that is my concern: it is primarily on behalf of the climate and the environment. However, I fully agree with the questioner when she says that we must make it easier for those companies which today do not sort plastic waste to a very large extent too in the case of the Folketing, I know because we cannot have the opportunity to re-use it in the Folketing as a company, and that is a pity.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424124745	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424124746	But if the Enhedslisten wants to help make it easier for companies to pick up waste from private individuals, it is, of course, a liberalisation of the waste area. Does the rapporteur not recognise this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424124758	Yes, and that is not what I am proposing that companies should be given the opportunity to do so. I am afraid that this will lead to increased incineration and that companies do not have an incentive to produce products that are actually precisely designed for recycling. I understand that we can make a producer responsibility in one way or another, so that you might be able to go to the store and hand over your iPhone. By the way, people are already doing that today, but I believe that a resource like the waste is something that should be in the hands of the community. I do not think we should give a lot of infrastructure to private people, and that is why I am actually concerned about this legislation. However, I agree with the questioner that it is very much a political issue and not just an EU authorisation that we are dealing with right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424124843	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424124855	Thank you. I would just like to follow up on the debate that has just taken place between the Left and the rapporteur. The rapporteur also agreed that there is a lot of policy in this. And then the rapporteur says that we should now be careful not to put it into private hands, but that the public should be responsible for it. But what have we just seen? We've just seen a lot of Danish plastic waste end up in Malaysia. Was it something that the private had gathered together, or was it something that the public had gathered together? In fact, it was something that the public authorities had collected and sold in the best possible way, because we have set up with waste companies. So there is no guarantee that it is best because it is public. In the Danish People's Party we do not, in fact, have any opinion as to whether it is the public or the private who do so. We just want to do the best possible and cheapest possible for the benefit of citizens and for the benefit of the environment. And that is where I think it is important that we also have this political debate in the future. That is why I am glad that the rapporteur also says that it is also of the opinion that the Minister can not only decide on this; there must also be a political dialogue. It is just to stress that there is no good and evil in relation to the collection of waste.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424124958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424124959	I kind of agree with that. In relation to the story to which the rapporteur refers, it can be said that this is a serious disaster, namely that we have no idea where our waste ends; it then ends in a place in Asia where it is in no way recycled. And it is quite true that it is the fault of our interior design; in other words, the waste companies that have not handled it and who have sold it to those who bought it cheaply have not managed where the waste ended up. That is also why I think that the proposal made by the Danish People's Party for a system that allows us to follow the waste is really, really important. I fully agree with the rapporteur that this is very much a political issue. I am concerned about increased liberalisation because I am afraid that this may mean that you do not design for recycling and that more is being burned off than is good. But in the Enhedslisten we think it is a political issue and that it is something that we, as Parliament, need to have a hand in dealing with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424125101	There are no further brief comments. No one else has asked for a brief comment, so thank you to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424125115	Thank you for the floor. What a wonderful exchange of words that was just with the two good questions, but also with the good answers. This really shows that there is just politics in everything • even in our waste • and this shows some of the rather fundamental dilemmas and choices we face in the coming period. This extended producer responsibility has been called by the waste sector itself and by many others perhaps the biggest change in our waste sector in Denmark, and this will mean that we will make some decisions that we may have been reluctant to take in the past, but which are so much needed. So even though this might seem a little dusty with some powers and so on, there's real politics in it, so it's batting. I look forward to us negotiating it and discussing it in greater depth because there are huge decisions to be taken. Instinctively it is thought that we are all going to sort out many more units, we are going to have ten buckets and so on, but as Mr. René Christensen quite rightly said: Maybe we shouldn't do that; maybe we should just sort into two fractions, and then it gets sorted in the next term. In this way we have not yet found the right recipe for how to do it. We can also see around Europe that they do so in very different ways. I think it is very important that it is soon that we take some of these decisions, because I do not think we should underestimate how we, as consumers, are also constantly brought up in the everyday life we are in. Recently I moved from one municipality to another, and I moved from a municipality, where I had to sort in four or five different units, to a municipality where everything just goes in the same garbage bin and gets picked up. There I had been brought up so much as a consumer in my exodus community that I simply couldn't. So now I have six different containers out in my carport, which I have bought myself and in which I sort out the waste in which I myself drive at the recycling site, because I simply cannot, when I have been brought up in one world, go over to the other. I actually believe that this is how we, as consumers, are being brought up, including in relation to the management of our waste. That is why it is now time to take action to ensure that we each have the right habits and have a functioning system. There is so much to be considered: who will pick up our garbage? When we get this producer responsibility, producers also get more responsibility in relation to the way they produce, they get an incentive to use recyclable materials, to think in fractions that are not mixed together so that it cannot be recycled etc. But in my world they will also play a greater role in more of the waste chain than they have done up to now, directly or indirectly. So there are a lot of political decisions to be made in this. I'm not sure I have all the answers yet. It was exciting to see these recent recommendations from the partnership on waste, but they did not really relate to one of the most central issues in this whole waste debate. It should not be underestimated that there are also strong municipal forces in this debate in relation to the right of municipalities to do so in very different ways as they do today. The last thing I would just like to say is that I have heard the concern about this issue of authorisation and authorisation and so on, and I think it would be very good if a conciliation were held, in which we were to make it absolutely clear that there must of course be a political involvement in this, regardless of who might be in government, so I would think that was very, very fine. I know that the current minister cannot promise beyond his own period of government, but that would be very fine. Basically, we are positive about the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424125457	Thank you. There are no brief comments. So thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens. Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424125505	Thank you. The bill deals with extended producer responsibility for packaging and electrical equipment and others. By 2025, Denmark must have producer responsibility on packaging in accordance with EU legislation, and this can lead to major changes for our waste system, among others. the bill and responsibility for the handling of packaging waste shall be passed on to manufacturers of packaging. New citizens look with goodwill to ensure a more circular economy where we avoid waste and use our resources wisely. However, I share the concerns expressed by the business community in the consultation responses. An intrusive law on extended producer responsibility will affect the entire value chain from the production of packaging to products and waste treatment in Denmark. The implementation of extended producer responsibility will therefore have major economic and organisational consequences for both industry and municipalities. And that's why L 112 is actually a very intrusive law. And, like several other rapporteurs, I would like to say that this law is, of course, about handing over the authority to the Minister, and we can see, when we read the answers to the hearings, that there are many different views on how we do this in the best way possible. In today's debate, too, we have seen that there are political interests and different political views on the best way to organise it. That is why I am interested in how we ensure that the parties of the Folketing are also involved, when and if we implement this law, in the coinage, so that there is room to debate improvements. I look forward to discussing the bill in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424125648	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's report to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424125657	Thank you for an exciting debate. I could not help thinking of my blissful uncle when I heard Mrs Mai Villadsen's speech as rapporteur, because he was always wearing the same clothes, and for the time being it had been modern six times. So that is how we can solve the problems. A few years ago I visited a large company in Aabenraa, which specializes in recycling and circular economy. It was really exciting, and I got a lot of exciting information. One of the things I really noticed was that the occurrence of gold in electronic waste is greater than the occurrence of gold in a typical gold mine. That is quite a lot, which is why it has always puzzled me that there may have been a lack of motivation to get started on the circular economy. But better late than never. There is every reason to support this as a concept, which is why we are of course also pleased that we are in the strategy for the circular economy, and that is why we are of course also supporting the bill here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424125824	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424125834	Thank you. A few months ago, I got a call from my 15-year-old son, Thor, who said: Dad, don't we need a 5-6 hours this afternoon to go out and collect garbage along the roads out in Løvenholm Forest on Djursland? We can probably make it a few miles, if we're good, he said. And then I said to him, "I'd like to go with you to pick up garbage, but don't be so sure we can make it a few miles, 'cause I've done it before." And it turned out, when we got into the beautiful Løvenholm Forest and were about to collect garbage, there was so much waste thrown out from the cars along the road in the woods that even my son thought it was a lie. So we collected and collected bags, and I think we reached 300 meters in a 5-6 hours. There are grotesque amounts of waste out in our nature and many other places along the road, of course, so I am of course incredibly pleased that today we are extending producer responsibility on different types of waste. In other words, when producers produce a product, they must from the outset contribute to making strategies for how the product can be reused and recycled. And that will, of course, trigger a lot of things. It's not that simple. There is much to be developed: material research and technology development, the development of new products, to increase recycling and increased recycling. And that means, of course, that the concept of circular economy, which is beautiful today, you can almost see it, but maybe it's also kind of hard to understand how it's going to work. It is, of course, a question of the same products, often in different forms too, which have to go over and over again. Not just from cradle to grave, but from cradle to cradle, where we actually see the same products circulating through our society time and time again. Yes, hopefully in time almost infinity.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424130046	Thank you. We are now through the rapporteur's series, because there are no more brief comments. And the next to speak is the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424130059	Thank you for that, and good to see you. We've mostly seen each other electronically here lately. And thank you very much from me too for the exciting debate. After all, we are in a health crisis, a climate crisis and a natural crisis. Today we consume far more than our planet can endure, and when we throw out useful things and burn plastic waste, we also emit CO2 to the atmosphere and we waste the resources of the planet. We burn far too much waste and we recycle and recycle too little. Too many things turn into garbage without being used more than a few times. We let our precious resources go up in smoke. It emits CO2 and is a huge waste. However, with the global health crisis that we are in the midst of, we are also looking into a future with major economic consequences throughout the world. Danish economy will not be excluded. We can no longer afford to waste our resources. We have a unique opportunity to make the recovery of Denmark green and make the green transition go hand in hand with the recovery of the Danish economy. Waste and circular economy, where we use our resources far more optimally, can play an important role in recovery. A stronger recycling sector with new green jobs must be stimulated, new circular business models must be promoted. In a circular economy, extended producer responsibility plays an important and important role. With extended producer responsibility, producers will be held responsible for their products when they turn into waste. When producers have to pay to have waste treated their waste products, they also get direct motivation to design better products. It may be products that last longer, or products without problematic substances that prevent recycling. Products that are easy to separate for recycling and products with less material consumption. For a number of years producer responsibility has been extended on electronics, batteries and cars, and the mortgage and return system that we have today is also a well-functioning producer responsibility for beverage packaging. We need more producer responsibility and we need to improve the arrangements that already exist. We need to do this in line with new EU requirements, so that, for the sake of businesses, we have a level playing field across the European Union, more transparency in the administration and equal treatment of producers within the individual schemes. But also so that we get more environment and circular economy in the schemes for the benefit of both the environment and business. The first part of the legislative proposal, as we have also mentioned in this debate, must ensure that our producer liability schemes comply with the minimum requirements of the European Union. One general basic principle of the draft law is that both existing and new producer liability schemes should be standardized as much as possible so that it is as simple as possible for producers to meet their obligations. The second part of the bill takes the first step in a new extended producer responsibility for packaging. Enhanced producer responsibility for packaging will be a major lever for the circular economy in the area of packaging and for achieving ambitious recycling targets. This is particularly true of plastic packaging, where we are very far from targets. With producer responsibility for packaging, we get producers on the field. We get them to take responsibility for design and technology development in waste sorting, so that we can recycle much more plastic than today. And there is great undissolved potential here, which also provides opportunities to support the necessary investments in new sorting plants, investments that are necessary to recycle more, but which can also create new green jobs. The Danish business community has already very clearly signed up and wants to actively assume responsibility. Danish Industry and Danish Business and Agriculture & Food have announced that they are ready to assume their responsibility for a necessary part of the organisation, and they aim to be citizen-friendly, environmentally efficient, cost-effective and competitively neutral. Several of the climate partnerships also recommend that companies play an active role in producer responsibility and that responsibility for the physical management of waste is borne by producers. These announcements are, of course, a starting point for further implementation, where the government attaches great importance to involving those players in the value chain who also have to do the job. The third part of the bill proposes modernising producer responsibility for electronics. We need far more recycling of electronics than we do today. Much of the electronics we throw out still works or can work again with simple repairs. It's a waste of resources just throwing it away. New recycling companies can emerge from citizens' electronic waste if we set the right framework. By allowing companies to collect electronic waste directly from citizens, we can get a more gentle collection and avoid expensive intermediaries which make recycling too expensive and hassle. However, we must insist that companies meet a number of standards so that new opportunities do not become a way of circumventing environmental requirements. Requirements for standards also allow for the re-use of electronics with the assurance that previous users' data are deleted. I think we'll all appreciate that. At the same time, the standards will ensure a high quality in handling the materials from the used electronics. Homes must be fixed now, so that we can demonstrate to the rest of the European Union within the European Union that we want to introduce extended producer responsibility for packaging and that we will do so in accordance with the requirements that we in the European Union have jointly agreed to make. This will be made more concrete at the level of announcement, and I have listened carefully to the debate in this House that this is, of course, something that is of great interest. The reason for doing so is that it may be necessary to adapt the rules governing the administration of the schemes on an ongoing basis. It is also an advantage for companies to do so, because this means that the administrative rules can be continually simplified and adapted in a flexible manner. There is no doubt that producer responsibility for packaging in particular is a major change and that we need to move forward as soon as possible with specific clarification of roles and responsibilities between municipalities and producers, as well as how we ensure simple and uniform management across producer liability schemes. The Government will endeavour to establish this as soon as possible. There is no doubt that the sooner we get the concrete framework laid down, the sooner we get the necessary transition to a more circular economy boosted. We have a major challenge in transforming our society into the circular economy, and the bill here is an important step in that direction. I hope that there will be broad support for the proposal and that we will be able to take this step together. In relation to the wish expressed by several parties, for consultation, I would, of course, be happy to do so. But I would also like to offer that in the first instance, of course, we could perhaps take a technical review of the bill and delve a little more into what lies in the concrete provisions, i.e. as a parallel to the way we have done it before in the Folketing. I would also like to stress that, of course, we will also be launching a discussion with the parties of the Folketing in relation to the actual implementation. The fact that we do not agree entirely does not surprise anyone in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424130830	Thank you. And then there is a brief comment from Mrs Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424130847	Thank you. As the Minister could probably hear from the debate, almost all parties in the Folketing called for more political involvement. Sir. René Christensen and I are proposing a specific consultation to discuss some of these political issues, while the Conservative People's Party, I understand, expects a real debate, and Enhedslisten's rapporteur says that it is expected that the parliament will have a real influence. I do not think that the Minister was entirely given the answer as to how the government intends to involve the Folketing in the coinage. Will there be a real debate? Are there any real political discussions about the many choices that need to be made here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424130933	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424130936	As I was at least trying to say, I can easily understand the interest in this, because it is a broad framework for further work on producer responsibility. When we do it this way, it is because we usually do it partly because there is a good argument for it, namely that what we have been able to see in the context of the existing producer liability systems is that there is a need for flexibility in the organisation of the arrangements and not necessarily in the Chamber every time. That is also what I heard from, among others. Danish People's Party that there is a recognition of. Then I also say very clearly that what is needed in committee may be a consultation, but it could also be starting with a technical review; I am very open to that. But there are some political choices in this, and I fully agree with that, and that is also why I am saying that we imagine that we should have a discussion with the parliamentary parties on the details of the coinage. However, this does not alter the provisions of the draft law, that is to say the minimum requirements which have also been decided in the European Union and which we must, of course, decide on in Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424131032	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424131035	Thank you very much for your answer. I am very pleased about this, and I am also listening to the Minister's intention to involve the parties of the Folketing in a real discussion. And I certainly hope that this is the case after this bill has been adopted, because it is only afterwards that the coinage begins. That is why I would just like to have an assurance that, after this bill has been adopted, the parties of the Folketing will be included in a discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424131059	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424131103	I would like to try to give a clear answer. But for example... in relation to what the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten has just said, about the climate element, there is also a climate partnership that has made recommendations regarding producer responsibility, and that is where we have committed ourselves to saying that we must follow up on this. We have also said that we are bringing in a climate action plan on waste, and there the corona crisis has meant that there are some things that have caused delays. So we are going to have political discussions, also in relation to how we handle waste in Denmark. But what I just can't promise here is that we all agree, because we're not going to be. It is also very clear that there will be differences between parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424131146	Thank you for that, and then there is a brief remark from Mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424131155	Thank you for that, President. I will be a little bit on the same track, so ask how the Minister will involve the rest of the Folketing. Because it is true that there is a lot of politics in this. We saw the debate about whether it is private, whether it is the public, whether it is the municipalities, whether it is the state: how are we going to do this? But that's what's exciting about politics. It's also reaching each other. So even if you start in different places, we have seen in the past that you can reach each other in the middle; politics is also about giving and taking. What I want to ask the Minister is in relation to this discussion. A discussion is yes, I'm sorry, I'm saying it at orientation level. A debate is quite different. Is the Minister suggesting that there should be a debate on the implementation of this legislation, or is the Minister suggesting that this should only be a discussion?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424131240	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424131246	I understand, however, that the rapporteur is asking. Now the Socialist rapporteur also referred to it in his reply, that is to say what the draft law says, that it is based on the organization of the waste sector at all times. It is, of course, the case here, in our regulation, that this is something we agree on, and I believe that we also learn from what the rapporteur said about what parliamentary tools are available for a government to do well, that it has a majority behind the political decisions that need to be taken. This will also apply to the waste area in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424131317	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424131319	Thank you for that and thank you for your answer. But the Minister doesn't quite answer it. Now we will also have the opportunity to have a technical review, and I would like to acknowledge that for the Minister to have said so. Then we will have to see if there will be an opportunity for consultation as well. But what is interesting here, as several rapporteurs have also said today, is that this is an area in which we probably have more questions than we have answers, and I think that is how the Minister feels. That's quite fair; this is a complicated area we're going to start with. That is why it is quite interesting whether it is something you make an agreement about, whether it is something you make a settlement about, or whether it is something where you are informed of what the minister wants. So I hope that the Minister can now say that the Minister is calling for negotiations and not just for discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424131359	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424131402	Well, as I have said, this is a perfectly fair question and, as the rapporteur also says, what we are proposing with the legislative proposal here is the minimum requirements that are set out in relation to the directive. So there are still many questions, and that is what we say with open eyes, even when we go into the legal procedure that exists. In other words, this applies to the whole operation, and that is also what I see from the professional organisations that there is a great deal of concern in the consultation answers, because that is, of course, what will have a real impact on them. I would also like to sign off on the fact that they are actually actively on the field, and then we are trying to get it handled with a follow-up group. I also hear what the rapporteur says, we have also talked about this before, and, as I said, I would very much like to involve the parties of the Danish Parliament closely in this. We're going to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424131449	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424131502	Thank you. I would like to ask about the role of the municipalities in all this waste management. Because I am aware that we have all received a letter from a number of municipalities and mayors in Denmark, including some social democrats, who are concerned that if we completely liberalise the collection of waste, i.e. the very first link in the waste chain, it will be detrimental to the climate, and if we do not do, yes, I do not know whether we should say a single direction, but do not let the municipalities stand for the first indent. That is why I would like to know what the Minister thinks about this request.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424131543	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424131547	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that I am very concerned about this was also one of the points made by Enhedslisten's rapporteur that we have streamlined the collection that is there. Because I think there are many Danes who really want to be part of the green transition and who want to help sort better. We could also hear the Conservative rapporteur, who could not stop sorting, and that is just excellent. So we need some more of that, and we are looking into that in concrete terms. If the rapporteur then mentions the request here, I can say that it is addressed to, among other things. Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply Dan Jørgensen, and this is due to the fact that there are parts of the waste area which lie in the climate area and which are particularly concerned with the whole organisation of the waste area. So we are very attentive to the discussion that is going on and we have asked for some recommendations from these different climate partnerships. They have come in, and we, as a government, have made a commitment that we will come up with a climate plan for waste.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424131640	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424131643	Speaking of which, I'd like to hear something. Because I am well aware that it is divided between two ministers, and that makes it a little harder to relate to. However, there have been quite clear recommendations from the Waste Partnership, where I can be a little concerned about some of those who are, of course, recommending greater liberalisation, privatisation of this area. I would like to hear what the Minister thinks of this, and whether the Minister is aware of when we are starting to negotiate waste on the climate side.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424131713	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424131716	Just to say what it is, we have been concerned about getting those recommendations from the partnership. That is why, as I have also said to you before, when we have talked about the national waste plan, it has also meant something for the timetables to have moved slightly. They already did that on the basis of it. Now, unfortunately, we have a corona crisis on top of which everything else has just been very important for our general work.I don't think I need to tell you, because you have all felt this very much and it has therefore also been important for how we have been able to go further in relation to the climate action plan. However, I can say so much that we are working hard and that I have the expectation that we will be discussing this before, I hope, for far too long.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424131755	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. So thank you to the Minister for the Environment. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424131825	The debate is open. And the first speaker is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Mette Gjerskov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424131834	Thank you, President. Finally, I would say finally In 2013 there was a terrible flood at Roskilde Fjord; the storm • Bodil • arranged for hundreds of citizens to be hit. In the middle of the night children were ripped out of their beds, they stood in their rooms in water to their knees and in thundering darkness, some could not get away, some roads were also flooded, they had to wade through the water masses to find a neighbor or a neighbor whose house was a little high, and where they could knock on and ask for shelter. That experience has been deeply held by many people. And every fall and every winter when it blows up, yes, then the scare of floods comes back. Climate change is upon us, that we might as well relate to that. This was 2013; now we're in 2020, and there's still no dike. Much has gone wrong in this matter, but it has been shown that the possibilities of redress are many and construction is now being delayed by a small group of landowners who have theirs on the dry ground. We simply have to do something, and that is why there is a very broad majority. It is the government, it is the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the SF, the Conservative, the Alternative, the Liberal Alliance and thank you for that! We have agreed to amend the coastal protection law and the other legislation needed to create a legal basis for establishing a system. It is a general system which, in exceptional cases, can preclude the right of appeal, the administrative right of appeal over decisions on municipal joint projects. You can still go to the courts and try the question; it does not change that. I am very pleased that we have reached that agreement. It also happens afterwards that Roskilde Municipality requests an addition because they need complaints about expropriation not to have suspensory effect, even in very special situations. Complaints may continue and proceedings may be brought. I would like to stress that we do not have to deal with citizens' rights to complain; this is a very narrow opportunity to do so here. This case has really been a mess. It is difficult to give the full picture in 5 minutes, but basically it is about a few landowners being able to prevent hundreds of people in the neighborhood from sleeping safely at night, and that is unacceptable. We need to think new about climate change. We're going through the legislation now. It's about securing citizens, securing social values, that's what we're doing with this law. We have listened to the citizens, we have listened to the municipality. It shows this law, which the Social Democratic Party naturally supports wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424132220	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424132233	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for bringing forward the bill. As the Socialist rapporteur also said very well, it is the implementation of an agreement which the government has concluded with us in the Left and a large number of other parties here in the Folketing. Some call it lex Jyllinge Nordmark, but nevertheless it is of course a law that applies in all the parts of the country where there is a problem. However, it is probably not a great secret, as the Socialist rapporteur also said, that this is precisely the situation from Jyllinge Nordmark which was described as having been deposed, one can say, and that is what has driven this whole debate. There have just been some challenges with the completion of the project that has been started and which is a joint municipal project. However, various complaints have been made, both in terms of planning and permits, so that the project has always had to be postponed over and over again. I have visited them, and I know Mrs Gjerskov has been very many times. I also know that the Minister has been. And I think it's fine that we're out and engage and see for ourselves what's going on. The project that lies out there is certainly not for the benefit of coastal protection, and environmentally it is not a very pretty sight, so I am also delighted that the municipalities can now, with this law, have the opportunity to make the projects that are absolutely necessary in relation to the climate adjustment that is needed, both in Jyllinge Nordmark, but also elsewhere where this is relevant. For my and the Left's point of view, of course, it is also important to emphasise that we are not simply saying that every right of appeal should disappear. That is why it is also important for us to stress that the limitation of the right of appeal which is being proposed here is very limited and that these are very specific cases where there are major social concerns to be taken into account. It is also important to us, as Mrs Gjerskov also mentioned, that there is, of course, still room for judicial review. Because there may be citizens, too, who go against the majority, who may have good points, and we must not so completely cut them off from having that. But it is also important that we, as a society, provide opportunities for protecting the wider social values, and that is what is happening here. It has been a long process, and it is very good work, including by Mrs Mette Gjerskov and many others who have been there, including people from local communities. At any rate, I have been run on the doors by several people, including those from local Left Associations, etc., who have had this very, very close to life. And I think it is a very good expression of how we can also find good solutions, although it has taken some time. Having said that, I would like to say that we in the Left can of course also support the proposal so that we can get it through in this way, so that in Jyllinge Nordmark and perhaps elsewhere we can get necessary projects done before the next storm season appears in the autumn. So the Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424132540	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424132557	Thank you. First of all, on my own behalf and on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to acknowledge that the bill now reaches the Parliamentary Chamber. We've been waiting for that to happen. It has been relatively long since we concluded the agreement, but now it is finally clear in writing to be dealt with in law. I would just like to say that I am chairman of the committee, and we have had a debate in committee about allowing it to go through fairly quickly so that, as previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, projects can be launched before the new storm seasons begin. It is true, as several rapporteurs have said, that there are very specific projects behind the conclusion of the agreement, but it must also be said that it is a general rule, so if there are other places in Denmark where you will experience something similar, then these matters will also be taken up by the Minister. For that is what is decided today; it is not, of course, that we compromise on legal certainty, that is to say that citizens have access to complaints. Of course, citizens have access to complaints, and we must safeguard that, and we do so in the Danish People's Party too, but unfortunately we have seen individual cases, fortunately not so many, where complaints start to look more like harassment than real complaints. I also have knowledge that it also exists elsewhere than right in these projects, among others. in Jyllinge Nordmark, which has been mentioned here. That is why it is also important and it was important to us, also in connection with the agreement that we made that this is not going to take place in closed rooms at official level. There is, of course, a ministerial responsibility behind this; it is the Minister who places his signature on the fact that in a particular case we can now avoid the rules that exist in relation to the right of appeal. That is why, of course, we can support this proposal. It makes sense. This makes sense, given that the values we have out there can also be protected, while at the same time we do not generally compromise on the fact that, of course, we have access to redress in relation to these projects that are out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424132759	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and the next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424132807	Thank you. I'm looking down at Mette because I think that right should be right. If someone has been fighting for this for seven long years and I was about to say life as an effort, then I can't say you, but it's Mrs. Mette Gjerskov. I want everyone to know that. I was also born and grown in Roskilde, but I don't live as close as Mrs. Mette Gjerskov. But if there is one thing I can say, it is that we had never ever dreamed and believed, all of us who have lived around Roskilde Fjord, this very flat, mild fjord with calm water and low beaches, where you can wade very, very far out, and where it is very child-proof etc. that a storm could affect the fjord in that way and could lead to floods, as we saw in Bodil. I wasn't at Roskilde when it happened, because at that time I had moved from my childhood town, but I think that I and everyone else who has a relationship with that fjord were completely in shock that it was possible at all that it could be flooded. It was just one of the first premonitions of what awaits us. Therefore, this is a law that is based on the event in Jyllinge, but it is also a law, and anticipates some of what I think is unfortunately and is already becoming everyday in Denmark with this type of special event. It's been seven years now, and the landowners' association and the municipality are still struggling to make this dyke. In the first few years, it was the legislation that limped. It wasn't designed for this type of incident, and it meant that it was a Kafkaske hell to have to go through with many actors, separate administrative processes and several redress procedures. It has now been streamlined, but unfortunately the project once again seems to be postponed for a year and another storm season due to two complainants. Or that is, it doesn't look like that anymore. This was until a few months ago, when we went together in a circle, of course with Mrs. Mette Gjerskov, but also with very good commitment from the Minister for the Environment, whom I would also like to thank as roskildedenser, as it is called; born and raised in Roskilde, but also elected in Roskilde. We are very pleased that the Minister chose to take such an active part in this matter, because although we know that it will be everyday in Denmark, it was also a local community which at this time had been driven into a Kafkask hell, but also families and children, who are definitely traumatized by what they experienced 7 years ago and who have since been a hell. So thank you to the minister and to the official work for being creative and having found this solution. Having said that, this solution has also been difficult. Normally, I think that most of the parties I can at least say that this applies to my own country, in principle, it is difficult when it comes to defining the right to appeal. That is why it has also been very important for us that it was very clearly defined. That is why I would like to list what is the definition now, because it is very important for us. There are only joint municipal projects. There is a very sharp demarcation, so for example. there must be a current and significant need for coastal protection and there must be a risk of repeated flooding within a short period of time. So these are the very acute cases where we can't wait years. Then all other legal requirements have been retained, for example. Party consultation requirements. It is still possible to go to the courts. It is the special administrative means of redress, for example. There is no such thing as a motorway project which is being cut off. There is an annual follow-up to the application of the clause in the contract circle so that you can come after a minister if he/she abuses it. We don't believe that, but we've made sure if that happens. And then we have also included in the agreement an evaluation in 2024 of the law's application with input from independent legal expert in order to assess externally whether the Minister has estimated in accordance with the criteria. I think we've ended up in a place where we save those people first and foremost. I don't know if you should use the word rescue, but I think that's how you feel in Jyllinge. Now they can calm their stomachs and look towards a storm season where they should not be afraid that their homes will be flooded again. I also think that we have found a solution in which we do not give up some fundamental principles of legal certainty, such as: the right to complain. I think we have found a fine balance in which we take account of Jyllinge, but where we also make a law that can be used if there are other similar cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424133328	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. The next rapporteur on the platform is from the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Signe Munk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424133355	Thank you. Climate change is no longer a distant phenomenon. This is a very tangible consequence of rising temperatures. This is a particularly tangible consequence for the many Danes affected by water masses and more extreme weather. There is no doubt that the climate adjustment of Denmark is going up in a higher gear and that it has to be done on a much larger scale than hitherto. Unfortunately, there is a risk today that some coastal protection projects involving many landowners and one or more municipalities will be hampered to an inappropriate extent by complaints from one or a few affected landowners. This bill allows the Minister, in special cases, to cut off administrative appeals against decisions on municipal joint projects under Chapter 1a of the Coastal Protection Act. However, it is very important that, when it is possible to cut off administrative redress, it is given to the Minister that justice can still be maintained. This is an important guarantee of citizens' legal certainty. In the SF, we do not think it is desirable that we should be obliged to give the Minister for the Environment and, in some cases, also the Minister for Industry an opportunity to cut off citizens' access to justice in connection with joint coastal protection projects. However, climate change is just putting great pressure on climate adjustment and securing the homes of some citizens against violent water masses. Unfortunately, we only see today in some cases that there is a situation where an adequate coastal protection facility cannot be set up and where time is short before the next flood is on the way. Several rapporteurs have specifically referred to Jyllinge Nordmark as an example. Precisely because citizens' legal certainty is obviously important to the SF, we have been concerned that this general scheme is well fenced in. It is about clarity about what the scheme relates to, which I have listed, namely joint municipal projects under the Coastal Protection Act, and that there are still the normal procedures for citizen involvement which must precede the projects. There is also a clear list of the criteria by which the Minister may be expected to assess it if it is to be necessary to cut off administrative redress. Of course, we will keep an eye on how this opportunity is being used. Therefore, it is also important that an information to the parties to the agreement is included when the Minister initiates the authorisation. And we also see it as quite natural to take an evaluation of this scheme, which is also written into the text of the agreement and the draft law. Having said that, we would have preferred to see in the SF that the bill had contained a sunset clause. It has also been proposed in the consultation responses. And it can be said that our Corona legislation is currently well trained to introduce sunset clauses into legislative proposals, so that it may have to be considered again. In conclusion, I would just like to reiterate the call made several times by the SF in this Chamber to the Minister for the Environment to set in motion an overall climate adjustment plan. For anyone who remembers two months back, it is well known that it is not only storms and a rising seawater mirror that pushes the Danes and our climate adaptation. It is also water from all kinds of other sources, so it is important that this proposal is not left alone. This is not what makes climate adjustment alone, but it is a contribution to helping some citizens and some projects that are in a difficult situation. With these comments, the SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424133735	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten. Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424133745	Thank you. In some places around the country people are definitely sleeping insecure at night when TV 2 once again drives a yellow breaking news that there is a storm flood coming. Flooded cellars, water in the gardens and living rooms, sandbags that do not strike at all, these are some of the consequences that come also because of climate change. And one matter which has greatly contributed to the fact that we are dealing with this bill today is the case of Jyllinge Nordmark, where repeated complaints from a small group of citizens about the creation of a larger dike have dragged the implementation of the coastal protection project and aid to a whole lot of people into delay. I fully agree with the praise that Mrs Zenia Stampe sent to Mrs Mette Gjerskov. I would also like to say that my first acquaintance with Minister Joy Mogensen was on TV, where you see a very, very tough and quirky woman dragging sandbags while she speaks on television. The citizens have really stood together out there. This case can, of course, make it appealing to weaken the means of redress so that coastal protection can get under way and thus help the people concerned. That's what we get with this bill. Soon it will be possible to carry out major projects like this without citizens and organisations being able to complain. I think this is an unfortunate solution to a very real problem. The people of Jyllinge Nordmark are constantly afraid of the next storm and must live with uncertainty and the personal consequences and economic consequences of this. We need to secure that area, and that is why I must also say that I find it extremely regrettable that it was not much earlier that a construction law was put in place for precisely this area, because it must be obvious to everyone in this Parliament that that is what has been needed. I am very sorry that such a one was not in the drawer when there was a new Minister for the Environment who actually had the will to implement it. After all, we are now faced with this bill, and I am very sorry that in the negotiations that have taken place, we did not manage to introduce a sunset clause. We have proposed this in the Enhedslisten. There are also other suggestions: you can read from the consultation answers • where the Danish Nature Conservation Association has suggested that in the case of Jyllinge Nordmark you could use just a construction law that ensures that the dikes are brought without appeal, and that you ensure a local solution that does not mean that we need to paint with the large wide brush. I think that would take too long. That is what we are told by the official work. One could also consider whether it was such a construction law that one would actually have to choose to deal with it as a matter of urgency. I mean, emergency treatments are relatively loose for this Parliament in particular. But that is not where we stand today. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that access to complaints is an essential democratic right and we have previously opposed any relaxation of the right of appeal. That is why I am also very pleased that, because of the very case of Jyllinge Nordmark, extra money has been put into the Board of Appeal, so that the processing period is down to only 3 months. I am also very pleased that the state will support the municipalities in further processing in these areas. It's a really crazy decision. However, I also believe, as the rapporteur for the SF said earlier, that we need a general plan for climate protection in Denmark in the future, so that we do not face situations too often where redress ends up being cut off and a minister ends up making the final decision. I fear that this legislation will affect nature. Because we are in a natural crisis and nature is in decline. That is why we must also look after our shores. There is a need for organisations and citizens to be able to complain, also on behalf of nature. That is why I really hope that we can have a sunset clause in this legislation. So where's Enhedslisten? Are we going to vote against this bill? No, we don't. But right now the finger will end on the yellow button if we do not get in such a sunset clause. I really hope that Parliament will respond to this, so that we can resolve this jointly and in the future ensure that it is not the right of appeal that has to be removed, but that we have the opportunity to create a comprehensive plan for the nation, so that we both help the citizens of Jyllinge and nature in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424134259	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Mrs. Mette Abildgaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424134310	Thank you. The Conservative People's Party is also part of the vote agreement which has resulted in the legislative proposal we are debating in the House today, and as many have mentioned, there is, of course, a very special relation to Jyllinge Nordmark in the legislative procedure we are doing here today, in relation to the need for it to be adopted, also on this side of the parliamentary year. In time, it has to be said that there are not many politicians with respect for themselves who have not been on a trip to Jyllinge Nordmark and stood with rubber boots on board who have been out to be made aware of the consequences of the situation that is right now. There are probably not many environmental rapporteurs who have not been invited to coffee at Mogens' place and what all the front fighters out there are called, and I fully acknowledge that some politicians have fought an extraordinary battle in this situation, and not least some citizens, mayors and others who have fought an extraordinary battle, for which I am very grateful. Now we only have a political responsibility to take the final step, which is, of course, what is needed in order to achieve the security that has also been talked about earlier in the Chamber, to be able to sleep safely at night, regardless of what the weather reports may say. It's a basic security that you should be able to give to everyone in this country. But frankly, it is also a matter that is full of dilemmas. I fully acknowledge that. It is in many ways such a rather classical political dilemma, that is to say this: we have to weigh the consideration between the individual and the community. Because on the one hand, there are a few individuals in this case who feel that they have the right on their side and feel that they are being unfairly treated and are allowed to stop this project. Conversely, there is a large majority living with the consequences to a greater extent than the few individuals who can stop it in this matter. So it's such a classic political example that we have to weigh the individual's consideration and right to the community, and when we've had to make this balance in this particular case, it's the community that we think should be given the highest weight. That is why we have also agreed that, as a starting point, we should be able to complain about permits for coastal protection, but that this exception can be made in exceptional situations and only when there is a likelihood of repeated flooding or erosion within a short period of time, and when this can lead to significant private or public values being threatened, including human physical or mental health, as the text states. We consider this to be essential considerations which justify this resolution, but we are also very pleased that it should be closely monitored that the Minister's use of this should be followed up by the political majority who are involved in adopting it here. So it is gratifying that we have reached this point. We support the draft law, but we also fully recognise the dilemmas which also lie in a case like this one.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424134611	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens. Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424134623	Thank you. From the outset, New Citizens believe that a more flexible procedure may be necessary in the state, regions and municipalities, also in relation to the risk of flooding and coastal erosion. Thus, municipal long-term joint projects could be implemented more quickly. But if you read through the hearing answers to this bill, there's no enthusiasm. The consultation responses received express concern and concern about the draft law in relation to the purpose of cutting access to complaints in municipal joint coastal protection projects. In general, the consultation parties, experts from both Aarhus University and the University of Copenhagen, as well as the Danish Nature Conservation Association, find the bill questionable, both in terms of legal certainty and in terms of international and EU law obligations. That is why I believe that the draft law is contrary to the Danish tradition of easy and economically reasonable access to judicial decisions. The draft law will affect citizens and interest groups who cannot have the decisions of the authorities examined by a review body. The cut-off of redress by the bill may be challenging for legal certainty. The draft law means that a complaint cannot be tried unless it is brought before the courts, and this can be associated with high costs for citizens. New citizens' balance of those conditions means that we cannot support Bill No. L 132.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424134749	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424134758	Thank you. Of course, I think it is a pity that New Citizens cannot support this proposal. What I can hear, however, is that with regard to what we other rapporteurs have actually said today, namely respect for citizens' rights. And apparently it weighs really heavy, or at least heavier, in New Citizens' Day, but what about the problem? Does New Citizens have a proposal for what we do? These people face the risk of being flooded again, there is no dike, everything has gone up in hats and glasses, the machines have stopped; what will New Citizens do then?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424134843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424134847	But if this is a question of seven years' running, then it can't be the right of appeal that has been crucial to the fact that it hasn't been implemented, and if it is, then you have to look at whether you can't try to get these complaints dealt with urgently rather than cut off the possibilities for citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424134904	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424134908	I hear a very bureaucratic answer. This is about making some decisions, because if you just do what you always do, there's still no dike. So the question is: what is New Citizens going to do quite concretely?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424134927	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424134930	As I say, if it is the right of appeal that is the problem in terms of having it implemented here, then we must try to deal with the complaints as quickly as possible instead of cutting off the possibility of citizens being treated. It must also be possible to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424134944	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance. Sir. Henrik Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424134957	Thank you for the floor. Tietgen's Horror is the nickname of the cadastral located on Store Kongensgade 84. Here's the thing, C.F. Tietgen could not be allowed to buy the last piece of land that was part of his magnificent plan to complete the Marble Church and expand the neighbourhood around the Marble Church. That piece of land was not for sale, and even though Tietgen was one of the most powerful men of his time, the owner of the land was neither for cutting nor for stabbing. Denmark is a community of law, so this little piece of land around the Marble Church was never built according to the plan that Tietgen had laid. I think this is a good thing, because it shows that Denmark is a community governed by the law and that the big ones cannot necessarily come and squeal the small ones. It's a good thing we've made this way. On the other hand, I have this problem that this bill is about, literally, about life every day, or at least when I'm at home in Ribe, where I live. In Ribe lies something called the Storm River Pillar, and the Storm River Pillar is a wooden stake with some copper rings around, showing how high the water could stand inside Ribe before we built the dikes, which are approx. 6 meters tall and located out by the Wadden Sea, just over 100 years ago. The most serious storm was in 1634. The bronzing is a few meters above, as tall as I am, but there are also some smaller storm floods, where the water is also far above my personal height, and I am after all 1 m and 85 cm tall. So it's natural disasters we're talking about averting here. It's not wet feet. They're human lives lost. It's billions of dollars in values that can be lost by these natural disasters. Over in Ribe, where I live, no one is sorry to live behind a six-foot-high earthly rampart. We're actually really happy about it. I myself have the age to remember some of the worst storm floods of the last 50 years: the one in 1976 and the one in 1981. Then the water simply stood up to the edge of the net, and parts of the Rømø dam were washed in the sea and had to be reconstructed afterwards. These are serious things we are talking about. So, of course, we need to strike a balance between private property and the protection of very large social values and human values in relation to natural disasters. But there must be the general concern to protect against natural disasters, which all people in the part of Denmark in which I live recognise. As a politician, and I think that's in common with all of you sitting here, many strange views have been heard over the years, but I've never heard the view that the dykes out at the Wadden Sea should be torn down. I have simply not met a person who thought it could be a great idea. And, as I said, like you, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard many strange points of view between the year and the day. Of course, we support the bill here and are happy that the good citizens of Jyllinge can now sleep more safely when the project hopefully will not be completed for too long. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424135359	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the alternative, sir. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424135409	Here in the alternative, we are among the people who also do not want the dykes at the Wadden Sea torn down. And in the alternative, we are also included in this voting agreement, and we will also support the fact that, in specific cases, access to justice in relation to coastal protection projects can be denied. But it is clear that it is based on individual cases, and it is something that is extremely important, that it only works on what has to work on. So I agree with Mrs Zenia Stampe that this should be formulated incredibly precisely so that it cannot be applied to things for which it is not appropriate to apply it. I also think it might be interesting to have a sunset clause, perhaps, or a return visit in perhaps 2-4 years and try to find out whether it is a problem that remains there. And if that is the case, then of course it needs to be extended. So, of course, we support this agreement, and then we are working on the resolution that we tabled with Enhedslisten at the time to create a national coastal council and a coastal fund with an annual allocation to prioritize the implementation of coastal protection projects according to objective and professional criteria. But the alternative is in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424135530	Thank you. There are no brief comments. So now we are through the rapporteur's line, and the next person to speak is the Minister for the Environment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424135538	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by expressing my sincere thanks for the broad support for this legislative proposal and also for the intention to prevent major coastal protection projects from dragging on due to complaints. This applies to a large number of parties, which are part of this agreement SF, Radicals, Alternativet, Left, Dansk Folkeparti, Conservative, Liberal Alliance and also a special thanks to the Social Democratic rapporteur, who has brought me to visit Jyllinge Nordmark. I think it made a really big impression on both of us... you've been there many times to meet some of the families who experience when it has so great consequences for citizens, not only economic but also human, to be affected by these floods. That is why I am really pleased that, in a difficult matter too, we in the Danish Parliament can manage to have a broad majority, which wants to remove one of the barriers which are for climate adaptation and which the municipalities are currently experiencing in terms of moving forward with these major and very important coastal protection projects. The many floods that have been in the autumn and winter of recent times are, after all, just a reminder that climate change and the need to give municipalities a better opportunity to take necessary and effective action are there. And with the bill, we will ensure that coastal protection, which protects a larger group of citizens, the so-called municipal joint projects, can be implemented effectively and without undue delay. So it is important that municipalities have the right tools to establish holistic long-term responses to climate change. The proposal implies that, and this is also what has been emphasized many times in this Chamber, it must be possible, in exceptional cases, to cut off the right of appeal against local authorities' decisions in matters relating to municipal joint projects. Specifically, the bill means that the Minister for the Environment or the Minister for Industry can decide to cut off the possibility of appeal under both the Coastal Protection Act, the Planning Act and the Environmental Assessment Act in compliance with certain special conditions if the municipality so requests. Finally, it is proposed that complaints about possible expropriation in the context of the establishment of coastal protection should not be given suspensory effect in cases where a decision is taken to close proceedings against the consent for coastal protection. In other words, it means that there are still, and it is important to say, the same opportunities to complain about expropriation as today, but that it will be possible to take necessary action immediately. As a government, we are concerned that legal certainty is not being trampled underfoot and that it is only in these very special cases that an application for the right of appeal can be granted. However, in situations where there is a likelihood of repeated flooding or persistent erosion and where the sea takes the coast within a short period of time, it is essential that there is an opportunity to take the necessary climate adjustment measures quickly. This should include the assessment of the number of citizens and properties affected by a possible incident, the level of public or private values involved, and whether there is a risk to human physical or mental health. Finally, the possibility only applies to projects involving several properties. Although it is important to provide a better framework for municipalities to implement holistic coastal protection, it remains essential that consideration of both legal certainty and international environmental legislation is not weakened, and I think we have found a very good balance with this bill. It is designed so that the possibility of cutting back on the right of appeal becomes a very limited exception to the general rule of full right of appeal and, as I said, a number of specific conditions remain to be met. The proposal applies only to the right of appeal and only to the specific cases in question. This does not alter the fact that the municipalities must continue to carry out the preliminary procedure with the involvement of citizens and stakeholders and, in short, follow the Coastal Protection Act, the Planning Act and the Environmental Assessment Act and general administrative rules and principles. At the same time, and I think this is also very important to say, as the Minister for the Environment, that the emphasis on nature and environmental considerations will be completely as it is today. That's not gonna be rocked by a millimeter. If coastal protection is not permitted under the current rules, then permissions cannot be granted after the adoption of this proposal. The proposal therefore does not alter our international obligations under the Natura 2000 habitats directive, which must therefore continue to be observed. No authorisation may be granted if a Natura 2000 site is damaged without having followed the rules for derogations from Natura 2000 protection, including the obligation to inform the European Commission. Finally, it will continue to be possible to go to the courts and have a case tried. So the government is working hard to support the municipalities in addressing the challenges of water from several sides. And it has also been called for in this debate that we continue to work on climate change adaptation. It is a complex area and the good climate adjustment solution is coherent and holistic. Of course, the challenges of rising water levels and increased rainfall are not solved with this bill, and that is also why the government will set in motion work on a global climate adjustment plan, a plan that ensures better coordination of efforts in relation to all municipalities' handling of rising sea levels, groundwater and rainfall. In this context, we would like to see the experience of recent floods included in further work. I have started to collect the experience of visits to the country and meetings with municipalities that have been challenged by the current floods, and I will, of course, continue to do so. In those words, I look forward to the further work in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424140139	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment. There are no brief comments to the Minister for the Environment. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food and, if there is no objection, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424140157	The first to speak is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424140212	Thank you. It's just a lovely day today. One proposal after another is pouring in, and they are all good. It is a pleasure, because that is what we need. Nature is in trouble; nature lacks space; nature lacks peace and quiet, and I see that the Left already disagrees, but we will have the debate. Nature says no to farming on land that is already protected; there is a need for uncultivated fresh meadows and beaches so that birds, insects and plants can have new habitats. That's what nature gets with the bill today. With this law, there is now a requirement that as many as 37,000 hectares should not be sprayed, fertilised, plowed or planted with anything. It's a boost for nature. We said we'd be a green government, and now we're delivering. The beauty of the proposal is that the areas are scattered throughout the country. Every part of the country benefits from more nature; more opportunities to experience butterflies, larks, vibes and everything that is unfortunately under threat right now. It's 9,000 farms that are covered and that have this kind of protected nature. They are many pilots, but they get a longer phasing-in period than usual so that they can adapt operations. And, yes, some people will feel it on their wallet... we recognize it... but of course not to an extent that should give rise to great difficulties. Some may be hit extra hard, e.g. If there is much of this § 3 protected nature on their property, i.e. meadows or beaches. Here it is up to a concrete assessment whether they should have an expropriation compensation or whether they should simply be exempted from the requirements of the law. There is thought about things, so that individuals are not hit unnecessarily hard. In time, we will see an increasing diversity of animal and plant species on the land. There will be more biodiversity. And we have to remember that, with the UN's global goals, we have actually promised the world that we will work for diversity, we are now delivering. We have promised ourselves that we will have more diversity. We have promised it in the European Union. We have promised it in the Global Biodiversity Convention. So I am happy today, happy to stand here on the platform and present a proposal that we tried to get through, even last time we were in government; a proposal that the blue parties looped when they came into government. This must not happen again, so I think we should try to do what we can to bolt this proposal into the wall and promise ourselves that from now on biodiversity must move forward. We are working for a sustainable future, step by step. And I do not think I have to say this, but I would like to conclude by saying that the Social Democrats can warmly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424140548	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Erling Bonnesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424140553	Thank you. We all want nature well. I do not think there can be a single person present or represented in this Chamber who does not want to. I think we can establish that. But wouldn't it be better to have some more targeted measures done and to have our crowns spent? Now you can discuss how many crowns the government spends on this at all, but can we get back to it so that we got as much nature as possible for the money? When you dive into it a little, it is at least clear from what I have been able to find that up to 56 per cent. of the areas concerned have less than 5 in what is called the NHV value, which means that those areas are so far down on the scale that they are not even eligible for grants in relation to natural measures. So it sounds a little like a translation of it when you go out that way. Wouldn't it be better if we worked together to find some places where we could get more nature for the money instead of rolling this through?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424140659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424140700	We want to cooperate very, very much, and I do not think it is possible to say that we are actually going to roll this through. But these lands were protected 30 years ago in the Nature Conservation Act. You just forgot to make sure they were protected too. They are called protected areas, but they still had to be sprayed there, they still had to be fertilized there, they still had to be abandoned. I think that after 30 years it was time for these lands to develop into nature. Then there are plenty of other places where we go in with some other things, for example. with untouched forest. This is quite specific in relation to some specific forest areas. But I do not see that this proposal excludes doing other things as well. After all, we do not intend to see this as the only green proposal the government is making in this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424140758	Sir. Erling Bonnesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424140803	Thank you. I have also made it quite clear that, of course, if there were otherwise a dialogue, we would be very happy to take part in targeting better nature measures. I think the debate has been marked by this many times. But now the rapporteur himself answers that it is many, many years ago that this has been tackled, and then we can just see that a good part of these lands have still not reached a level where you can say that there is, like, a potential in it. So it looks like quite a translation of it. Some of these areas, to which reference is made, are some of these pastures, which lie like meadow grass, at least a nice part of them. It doesn't just seem to be bad when it's part of a connection with other land. So wasn't it worth considering trying to move around on this and then make it more targeted?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424140848	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424140849	I fully recognise that these are very diverse areas. They've been protected for 30 years. It has evolved in all sorts of different ways. But what we want now is for it to be allowed to develop under natural conditions. After all, it is not always that it necessarily brings more diversity everywhere. It will do so in some places, but perhaps not elsewhere. I'm not saying that this is the first quality and really the best of the best in diversity, but it's everyday nature that we want to bring with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424140926	Thank you. And the next for a brief comment is Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424140933	Thank you for your speech, and thank you for recognising that this is not the way to protect prime one nature. That is also what the Danish Nature Conservation Association writes very clearly in their response to the hearing I quote: "It can well be argued that the nature which is now put to an end in order to destroy further belongs at the lower end of the scale of good nature. In addition, the rapporteur says that when it was just forgotten to protect this § 3 nature, when the protection was introduced, one would only be able to spray wildly, but that is not true either. Well, there are lots of §3 nature today that you can't spray, because a spraying will lead to a de facto state change and you can't do that; you can't change the condition. So today you can't de facto spray in relation to bogs and heaths, and you can't reshuffle in relation to beaches, excesses, heaths, etc. without it requiring a derogation, because these habitat types wouldn't have survived if they had been remodelled. So it is quite simply not true what the rapporteur says about the possibility of spraying and transforming in all § 3 nature. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is: what is the loss of value on the land that we are now entering into on the part of the Folketing and taking possession of?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424141041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424141042	Thank you for the question. I do not think I have said that they were just spraying in the areas. It's like these 37,000 hectares make up a subset, perhaps about 10%, of the total § 3 nature, and there it has not been allowed to spray, plough, etc. Let's do that right here. And, yes, in some places it is not the important thing, because it has not been done in advance, but elsewhere it is very important. What matters now is to say that we mean something when we say that it must be protected; that we mean something when we say that section 3 of the Nature Conservation Act protects these areas. That's what we're trying to deliver. What was the other one? There was another question (Mette Abildgaard lost value on the ground). Yeah, it was a loss of value. Now I don't remember it in my head, and I don't have time to answer either, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424141147	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424141150	After all, it was convenient not to get to the part that is about the value loss on the ground when what I asked was quite concrete. But I understand perfectly well if the rapporteur does not have the figure in fresh memory, because it is not a figure that is particularly frequent in the material that we politicians have been given to see. In fact, I doubt whether it is even there. It has been estimated from agriculture that there is a loss of value of 1.8 billion. kr., if I remember correctly, because this land simply loses value when we go in and change what it can be used for. When Nature Plan Denmark was made, it was estimated that there was a loss of value of 1.17 billion. kr. Is it just bad luck for those who own the land?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424141225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424141226	I think it is rather strange to say, on the one hand, that this does not matter at all, because the operation of the land remains as it has always been, because we must not do anything in advance anyway, and then come up with billions which it suddenly causes in losses. In other words, the calculation that we have been given makes it very clear that the economic consequences are 19 million. kr. per In addition, it is estimated that the economic impact of 21 million on the economy could be derived. kr. a year. So the figures I hear from the rapporteur are really pumped up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424141306	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424141312	Then I would like to stay on track, because although there may be different assessments of the economic consequences, I also heard Mrs Mette Gjerskov say in her rapporteur's speech that some will be hit on the wallet. And when someone gets hit on the wallet by the intervention of the authorities and the state, would it not normally be the case that they say that okay, then we go out and assess and provide compensation for the loss suffered as a private pilot, as a result of the regulatory intervention? Would that not be a normal starting point, including on the part of the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424141349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424141351	In some situations, it will, but not when it comes to the fact that, for example, you have to. must not pollute. In other words, we are not giving people compensation for having to comply with environmental rules. Nor do we always do that in agriculture at least. But if a company is to provide greater safety or more environmentally sound machinery, then it will not be compensated for it. That is what is known as ordinary, replacement-free regulation. Companies will have time to work towards complying with the rules. There is a long phase-in period, and we think this is very, very reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424141436	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424141438	I can see that. I do not think it is, but our views differ. That's fair enough, too. But we must bear in mind that this is, after all, a change in the production apparatus in place. And there are some for whom it is very, very large areas, for others it is smaller areas. But I will insist that this is an intervention in relation to the opportunities that exist today. The question then is whether this is where we get the most environment for the money, and that is also what I heard Mr. Erling Bonnesen's asking. Is Mrs Mette Gjerskov sure that, for the social costs that lie here, we will actually have the most environment, most biodiversity, or could we have used those funds better elsewhere, untouched forest, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424141520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424141521	In fact, I believe that this is a proposal that gives us nature for the money. I believe that this is an opportunity also to ensure better nature throughout the country. Of course, we also need untouched forests. Of course, we need all sorts of other nature initiatives. But I don't think this is a bad balance in economic terms. That's 37,000 ha. It's a hell of a lot of nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424141557	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424141619	Thank you. We all want nature well, but this bill I want to describe as being almost symbolic, and it is at least theft in broad daylight, and we will of course vote against it in the Left. In these situations, the government deprives farmers of the right to fertilise and spray these § 3 areas and implements it as compensation-free regulation. According to what we have been able to find, 56 per cent. of the § 3 areas actually low natural value. Nevertheless, the government wants to impose very far-reaching restrictions on these lands, and we can of course discuss how much lies in it, when we hear from the government, that it is very high value and that it is based on it. And you might also ask yourself, "Well, how are these lands actually designated when you can read that 56 percent? of them actually have a low natural value? This suggests that no one has been out there like that and seen it. I guess it's pretty much something that's been identified by goingogling a little and looking at aerial photos. So I also think there is good reason to look at it, at least when you compare it with that you can see that 56 per cent. of these areas have what can be characterised as low natural value. It says 56 percent. of the affected areas, this HNV value is less than 5, which means that there is a low natural value of the area. And that HNV value is determined by a number of indicators and can be on a scale between 0 and 13, where 13 indicates the highest natural value. As the subsidy scheme for the maintenance of natural areas is today, it is also the case that you have to have an area and a value, i.e. the HNV value, of 5 or more in order to receive a grant. When farmers are not allowed to fertilise and spray these lands, it is a loss of rights and it causes economic losses for farmers and, in many situations, it becomes uneconomical for farmers to operate these lands. When the government then makes intrusive measures against farmers, I think it is highly questionable to run it through as what is called replacement-free regulation. And so it can be said that the government is running away from the bill and stepping on agriculture on the same occasion. We think that the proposal is quite random, and it is in fact the case that it is not just evenly distributed; there are some farmers who are hard hit by it. So we also see that this bill is quite simply a breach of trust between the government and agriculture, because the proposal makes no sense in relation to the intention to create, we must say, as much nature as possible for the money. This is largely a burden on agriculture, and we do not think that is fair. And I understand if, in this situation, many farmers feel abandoned by the government. Then we must at least demand full compensation which corresponds to the impairments and economic losses that there are. Why doesn't the government want that? I would also ask the Minister to try to deal with this and reply to it later in the debate. There are many situations, for example. We are talking about some meadowland where the farmer gives the grassland a little manure so that grass can grow well for the cattle, and when the farmer can no longer fertilise these grasslands, then it becomes so uneconomic for the farmer that in several situations he is forced to pull the livestock away from the fields. What happens next? Well, then, shrubs and scrubs will probably shoot up a little randomly on these lands. And one might then ask whether this is the way to get the most nature and environment for the money in the short term. What we think the government should do instead was to make voluntary agreements with farmers for grazing against compensation and then go more focused on getting some other designated natural areas that could be set up. And in relation to nature, we could do more with specific nature measures, for example. more untouched forest in favour of biodiversity, more afforestation and more wildlife and nature stripes, which also promote nature and biodiversity objectives. Everyone wants to be happy. In the Left, we call on the Minister to take this bill off the table and then enter into a broad political dialogue to find some better proposals so that we can achieve both the greatest possible nature and the environment for the money and do so without imposing on farmers the unreasonable burdens that are without compensation. That is why, of course, we in the Left are voting against the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424142111	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424142117	I am sure the Minister will invite the Left to a lot of talks about nature. But the question is how much the Left is prepared for. I can't hear anything but negativity. These are natural areas which are being destroyed by, for example, many places today. to be fertilized. The rapporteur mentions that some manure can be added, and then there will be some more grass. Yeah, there is, only grass. That's the problem. Only one species will be there. There is, in fact, a very positive effect of the fact that there are scrubs and other things that I could hear the rapporteur think were a mess. But it is actually about being wild on purpose, because that is what gives diversity, and that is what we want. In relation to the economy, I just have to say: where is it that the rapporteur does not see that compensation is possible if it is expropriation? There is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424142230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424142232	Thank you. In relation to the latter, I read that the government will only provide compensation if it becomes almost expropriation-like conditions. That's what I read. You can read it from the fact that in general you want to run it as a replacement-free regulation. Then it is that I say that, from the government's point of view, attempts are being made to minimise it as much as possible. But it may be that things are different, but then it would be fine if we could get an indication that the Social Democrats will provide full compensation for the loss there is. That's just not what I read. In relation to nature, many films have been recorded out there, where there are both grasslands and some areas where there are scrubs, forest etc., so there is an appropriate mix. And if it is that you force the cattle away from the grasslands that are there now, they will probably look like some of the areas that are next door. But that is not the way to achieve a more targeted new nature. That is why we are pointing out that more targeted action should be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424142340	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424142341	In addition, we have all sorts of other things like untouched forest and all the other initiatives that the government is delivering on. What I just think is important to stick to is that what we are asking for here is that we actually ensure that the areas protected under the law are protected. If you asked the farmer to provide protection for the tractor driver when he is going out with manure, you wouldn't pay him compensation. Here we ask him not to pollute and to secure some land.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424142425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424142427	If more than half of the areas which are now going out and imposing these restrictions, according to the inventory I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, have what is called low natural value, it does not fit in with the beauty that the government and the Social Democrats are trying to put up with, that you have to go out and look after this nature. Then it is that we point out that it would be better to make a targeted effort in some other places instead of wiping this off on the farmer. It just doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424142456	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks... Yes, there are a few more brief remarks and the first is from Mrs Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424142510	Thank you. Sorry for the confusion, I really intended not to make a brief comment, because it is about to be the weekend and the sun shines, and we all want out, but the rapporteur made such a passionate speech that I almost became a hero, I don't know if I'm going to say inspired, but at least I got some associations. I came to think of the old Anders Fogh Rasmussen quote, which is probably still being teased with in the Left, that not a bird, not a fish, not a frog could tell the difference between which government was sitting. In fact, I think that the fact that there is such a big difference of opinion about exactly such a bill here shows that there is and that is why I would like to ask the rapporteur some of what has been said about natural values, because a great deal was said about it. There are vibes, angels and field lizards living on these § 3 areas, whose living basis is significantly improved by this bill. Does the rapporteur not think it is good and important and right to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424142613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424142615	Well, as I have mentioned a few times, we will all take good care of nature, and I am glad that the questioner also says that both vibes and learners and many other things already live on these areas. Why do farmers do this on this occasion? And as far as the reference to Anders Fogh Rasmussen is concerned, I am glad to be able to return my thoughts to it, just to our last blue government, where we were suggested from blue camp and were on our way with several much more untouched forest than the red camp itself had done. If I don't remember quite wrong, I think it was about 500 hectares the former Red Government stood for, and the rest of us had several thousand coming, so I don't think we have anything to let each other hear about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424142704	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424142706	Oh, I think I may have seen that anyway, because the introduction of untouched forest, which was then made and of which I was of course a supporter, came with a cost: the old old trees that were felled, and that is what we have today, for example. in Rold Skov, from which I receive a lot of inquiries right now, when old trees over 80 years of age, which are habitats, are being cut down and taken out. I think that's too bad. But what I really want to say is that the rapporteur says in his speech: this seems almost random. No, the Nature and Agriculture Commission recommended this 7 years ago. Doesn't that really make an impression?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424142743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424142745	Well, I am glad that the questioner acknowledges that we were well on our way with much more untouched forest and that there are good values in it. So thank you for that. When this bears such a bit of randomness in my eyes, it's what I've marked, because when you look it up or try to google a little, you can see that 56 percent. the area now proposed, as imposed by these restrictions, already has a low natural value, and that does not add up. Then what we're pointing out is that it was better that we went into broad dialogue instead of the red camp trumping it through here so that we could get some targeted measures that provide something more nature for the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424142822	Thank you. I do not think there are any more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And the next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, Mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424142839	Thank you. Here we have a proposal which deals with nature and biodiversity and, as a starting point, it has to be said that it is a very important proposal. We are actually behind when we look at our biodiversity. When we look at nature in Denmark, we have some challenges. I think that many Danes see it as being out in nature, even when they go for a walk in such a beech forest, but in fact there is not much nature in it when the beech trees are on a straight line and you can see that the vegetation under the trees is not very changeable. It is, in fact, a monoculture that you have there, actually a cultivation area. So we are in deficit in relation to the diversity of nature in Denmark. And that is why one can also say that the proposal is interesting from the point of view of going in and looking at the possibility of getting more diverse nature and increasing biodiversity. What is really too bad is the way you do it: that you say that now you just put it all over the place. You take 37,000 hectares and do not have an overview of what nature it is, what it is for some areas, and what the consequences of it are. I would almost say that when we look at nature and biodiversity, we should take it as seriously as when we make energy agreements; then all governments have felt that it should be broad agreements, because it was something that was important. In fact, this is also very important, which is why we should also make broad agreements when we talk about nature and biodiversity, but we do not. There you make a narrow deal in a red circle, and then you just squash it all over the place. Then there can be another majority one day that can try to change it and withdraw some of it; we have seen that before. We should be able to make broad agreements there when it comes to nature. Everyone talks about untouched forest, but when you point out a forest to be untouched forest, when is it really a truly untouched forest? Nearly 100 years will pass, and so it is of no use if changing governments make it first for untouched forest and then for non-untouched forest, because then we will never have untouched forest, and then we will not have our biodiversity and our nature. So I think it is a pity that a government that calls itself a green government is not more ambitious on behalf of nature and is trying to land broad settlements and broad agreements that could hold in the future, around nature. What you do here, I think, is ill-considered because you just say that you take all the section 3 areas into the 37,000 ha. What about the organic farmer, we are so happy with everyone who has some land close to him, who has some meadows that he fertilizes, because his cows are going to grass as they are going to when he is an organic farmer? They were really happy about that; it works well, it's not stoned, it works well out there. He has a good hoof culture and everything, because it is a good area, but he cannot use that forward-looking; he certainly cannot fertilise what is not very much grass left out there; it has no value to him. What's he gonna do for the future? So it's an expropriation? One cannot really read whether his property has actually been expropriated so that it can no longer be an organic property. So I would say that 37,000 hectares and 9,000 properties are affected by this. That's 25%. of all Danish farms that are being affected by this bill. When the Minister comes to the floor, we can ask the Minister if she knows the full consequences of this bill, and I am sure the Minister will answer that she does not. The Minister does not, because the Minister is not aware of the use of the 37 000 hectares, and therefore the Minister will not be able to answer the consequences of implementing this bill either. And that is really a pity for farmers, but it is most unfortunate for nature. Because what is so important here is that we are lagging behind on biodiversity... we recognise that one hundred percent in the Danish People's Party... and that is why we also need to make some agreements that can keep on the long track. I am convinced that this will be a battleground, and if we get a majority one day so that the government changes, this will be one of the things that is being taken up; then we will have to discuss it one more time and something that has been taken out comes back in, etc. etc. And that's why it's far, far better to make a binding settlement with each other about which you have to cancel before an election, and say what you go to the polls instead of doing something here, where a different majority can make it go the other way. So the Danish People's Party cannot support the bill, and it is certainly not because we do not want us to have more nature, and it is certainly not because we do not want us to have more biodiversity, but we want us to do it in a way that makes sure that it also lasts in the future. I'm convinced this bill doesn't. I would also like to say that if there is another majority and the Danish People's Party is part of it, then we will go in and look at the 37,000 hectares and ask where it makes sense. Because there are certainly some of these hectares where it makes absolutely sense to implement what the bill says here. There is no doubt about that. There will be places where you no longer have to fertilise, where you no longer have to spray, where you no longer have to have your cattle, your sheep or other animals to go and graze the land; where we must have wild nature back again. So we agree with it; we simply do not agree that it should be done on an uninformed basis and on a basis where the consequences are not known. So a really good cause can also be turned into a bad cause when it comes to ideology, instead of it being about real politics and having a broad majority that could also hold to the forthcoming and forthcoming parliamentary elections. Unfortunately, this proposal cannot.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424143410	Thank you. There are no comments, so thank you to Mr. René Christensen. Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424143426	After all, it is now becoming clear to everyone that we are faced with a major natural crisis and that it is a crisis that has a great many dimensions and which is reflected in many different ways and requires many different approaches. One of the things we talk a lot about when we talk a natural crisis is the forest, the untouched forest. There are also many people who have already mentioned this up here, because it is that part of our nature that is perhaps most exposed, because there are most endangered species, and that is why it is also a focus that I know many of our biodiversity researchers and also many of our environmental organisations have. But there is also another part of our nature: what one could more call the countryside. It is when you go for a walk in the countryside and there are in fact insects that there are plants other than those that the farmer has cultivated that type of nature that is scattered throughout the country, which takes the form of meadows, overdives, swamps, lakes, streams, bogs, sweets etc. etc. These are the ones we're protecting through this special paragraph, section 3, these areas we call § 3 areas, but which are these smaller, particularly valuable natural areas, which have been designated for the last 30 years. You've gotten so dripping into this scheme. That is why it is not new to those farmers who have some of these areas that they have a piece of protected nature, but the new thing is, of course, that we are making new demands on these areas. For what has otherwise been the basic rule was that you could go on doing what you had done. So I was about to say a tax freeze on nature, where the farmer had to keep on fertilizing or spraying, or whatever he had done, to the extent that he had done in the past, but no more than that he did not grow more intensively than that which he had done. Now we go in and say, "You can't plow." You can't spray. You can't fertilize. I can well understand that this may seem violent to some farmers. That is why the possibility is also enshrined in the law for exemption, for example. if it is a really large part of one's lands, which are § 3 areas, or it may be other for reasons, or to be expropriated. So I think we take that into account, but it is then a question of how much confidence you have in that assessment being fair. I am confident that it is fair, but I can hear that there are some who do not quite have the same trust. But then I also have to go back to the premise. We know that we are in a natural crisis and that there are several things that are pushing nature. One thing is space, but another is the application when we fertilize when we spray when we plow. Since we know what violent consequences it has, can we continue to take the current application as a starting point and then say that every time we improve the environment beyond that, we have to pay compensation? So we're gonna do it for the next 10, 20, 30 years? After all, you get smarter and find out that something you allowed was actually more harmful than you thought, and that is why you have to ban it. We haven't banned spraying. We haven't banned fertilizing. We're not forbidden to plow. But we have said that it is so harmful, especially for these areas and this nature, which we have been saying for 30 years now was particularly worth protecting. There we go in and say that we cannot allow this any longer, and we cannot continue to pay compensation because we are banning something that we know today is so incredibly damaging to our nature. There is, of course, a political balance in this. I hope it will not be a battleground, and I am actually having a hard time imagining it, because I do not believe, as the nature agenda has moved over the last few years, that the Danish People's Party or the Left or the Conservatives will in two years' time propose to re-shoot these areas. I just don't think so. I think the agenda is a place where you cannot get yourself to do it either. Then it may be that there is something in relation to the exemptions or compensation and that in reality that is where the disagreement is. It is not safe to see whether farmers are now receiving the right compensation. I have confidence; there are others who do not. Then it has to be tested somehow, and we have to keep up with it. But I do not think, as the nature agenda has moved on, that there are very many parties in the Danish Parliament who would suggest that we should be able to spray and fertilise these areas again. Against this background, I can tell you that we support the proposal and, moreover, we welcome the fact that this biodiversity agenda is so widely recognised in the Danish Parliament and, of course, we also hope for broad cooperation on these proposals. However, I think that where it separates is that we do not believe that we can compensate for the environmental improvements we make forever and ever. We do not do that in other areas either. If you find that something has been harmful, you ban it and then you do not continue to pay compensation for those who have used those products or what it might be. But I fully agree that this may be a challenge for some, and that is why I trust that we will resolve it with the possibility of derogation or the possibility of expropriation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424144010	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424144018	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I fully agree that the nature agenda has moved forward, and it is good that it is worth welcoming. Unfortunately, however, I do not agree that this is not going to remain a battleground, and I am not, because it can be said that we are going to stand many parties and vote against it here today, and the agenda has already moved forward. But that is because there are some things we think are quite fundamental and in principle wrong in the way you do it, the method used, in relation to this regulation. It is not clear to me when it is expropriation and how much it takes before that tool is put into service. It is not quite clear to me, just as it is not clear to me when the derogation is granted as an alternative to expropriation. There are some basic principles that are not clear to me. But I know the Radical Left as a party that would like to seek cooperation and which would seek common solutions. Does the rapporteur not see that this is so untenable for everyone involved in the green agenda? You changed the rules in 2014, you changed the rules back in 2015, and you change them now in 2020, and we are already standing here and saying: we don't think this is the right way to do it. I also recognise that we should have made a broader agreement when we changed it at the time, but that cannot continue to be an excuse for doing so in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424144128	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424144130	Yes, I understand that, and in the spirit of cooperation and in view of the importance of the agenda, the best way to go was, in fact, to become more specific in relation to the criteria in question, and I think it would be good if we could do more with the second reading and the work of the committee. That is actually the purpose of our having three treatments. I think that is very, very fine. There is, of course, also an economic issue that we must look at. Because that's where you have to ask yourself that. I think we can all agree that the financial amount depends on the criteria, and if you make some criteria that make the bill really, really big, then we have to talk about where to find the money. I certainly hope, if that is the path that the Conservative People's Party and perhaps the Left would like to go, that we would like to protect those areas, but it is in fact because we would like better compensation that we would then have to look at whether there are proposals on where we are going to get that money. I'm not gonna be able to deny that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424144234	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Abildgaard again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424144235	But that is a very central dilemma. In order to find a good solution, there will then have to be some funding, because we basically believe that some people here own some land to which they have had some rights, which is being curtailed by this legislation. On the other hand, the Danish Nature Conservation Association also says in their consultation answer that we should be aware that the price for this is not so high that the natural value does not match the effort, and it is a huge dilemma that is in this discussion. For the natural value, as has also been brought out in the debate in the past, is not necessarily high on all these § 3 types of nature. But let me use the last part of my speaking time to ask whether it is quite clear to the rapporteur what it takes for this to be an expropriation which will be replaced and when an alternative derogation can be granted. Are these criteria quite clear to the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424144321	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424144323	No, 'cause it's a great idea. There are, of course, no specific triggering criteria, which mean that if you live up to these figures, percentages, then it triggers a derogation or a right to expropriation. It is an estimate, and there is the question, of course, whether one trusts that estimate lies in safe hands in the ministry, or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424144349	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then it is the next rapporteur, Mrs Anna Brændemose, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424144358	Today is an incredibly nice day. It is spring that the sun shines, and Denmark's current Minister for the Environment has decided to prohibit spraying, fertilization and conversion of § 3 areas. We in the SF are really, really happy about that, and to the Minister I would like to thank you very much. It is no secret that Denmark and the rest of the world are in the midst of a natural and biodiversity crisis, which requires us to take better care of the valuable habitats we have and to ensure habitats for animals and plants that are currently in very tight conditions. § 3 areas play an important role here. Nature types such as beach, bog and watercourses, where the basic conditions for strong biodiversity are in place, we need to be much more careful, and for SF it goes without saying that spraying, fertilizing and redesigning § 3 areas is not to take good care of nature. The nature of § 3 areas must be calmed to bloom, and it now gets it with a long-awaited and desired ban. But there is also room for improvement. In the SF we would like to see it go even further than the first step on the road that we now have to take. In our view, the same ban should apply to peat soils, organic soils and low-level soils, and if it is possible to extend the Minister's proposals on this, we would very much like to see it. At the same time, the strengthening of the proposal cannot be left alone, and we in the SF therefore look forward very much to a hopefully early debate on a biodiversity package where further action can be taken to make targeted nature conservation and recovery efforts. We look forward to the committee's examination of the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424144539	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424144549	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten we are very pleased that, after many years of waiting, we can finally implement the ban on spraying and fertilising in section 3 areas. It's been quite a struggle to get here a bit of a story. After the SR government back in what I think was 2015 introduced the ban with the support of the Enhedslisten, the then Blue Government, when they came to power, had put an end to the ban before it entered into force. The battle for the vulnerable natural areas in § 3 was shot to the corner for several years, again with reference to agricultural income, and it was several years when, unfortunately, nature destruction could have been avoided by vulnerable nature on heaths and, in part, bogs, meadows and exaggerations. I think that was very unfortunate. That is why I am very pleased that we are here today with a majority in favour of the proposal, and it is actually more ambitious than what was left in 2015, as we are now also banning ploughing in the protected areas. Today we will be delighted that this law ensures that there is no more spraying and fertilizing, or that these areas are plowed up and then finally sown with grass, which after all outperforms the wild flowers. And although this proposal protects 37,000 hectares, there are also many other natural areas where species are enormously pressured. The latest redlist was published back in January and showed that it is extremely bad with the species in our nature. 57% of all species are now in what is called adverse conservation status. Only one habitat type, the one called sea caves found on Bornholm, is in favourable conservation status. Despite the fact that there were a few points of light, it looks incredibly bad for nature. We must do something about this in Denmark. In general, we must give nature more space. in absolute last place in the European Union, when it comes to the share of land designated for Natura 2000 and a wholehearted disposal of land in the form of untouched forest, we must also have worked much more for, as we have also discussed earlier in this debate. Our waters are also enormously pressured in terms of nature. Only 0.02%. protected wholeheartedly from fishing. We need to do something about that. The proposal we are debating today was recommended back in 2013 by the Nature and Agriculture Commission. So it's taken seven years to get here. It took a long time for it to come true, and I can worry a little if that is the pace at which we have to drive, in terms of looking after nature in Denmark. I don't think so. Although the Coronapandemic has postponed both the Nature Summit in Denmark and negotiations on biodiversity internationally, this does not mean that we must relax our ambitions. It is very important that we take many measures that are of real importance, and in the Enhedslisten we very much hope that, if not for too long, we will be able to adopt an ambitious biodiversity law here in the Danish Parliament. I am very much looking forward to the negotiations to take even better care of Denmark's nature when we are negotiating a biodiversity package, something that fortunately stands as part of the understanding paper as part of what we have promised the people. In those words, Enhedslisten of course supports this bill and looks forward to its implementation so that it will benefit all birds, insects, amphibians and wild flowers living in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424145024	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424145032	Thanks for the speech. If this bill is to give better times for amphibians and wild flowers and what else was sketched out, then it requires that there is still the total amount of § 3 nature to protect when this comes into force on 1 July 2022. And it is so with § 3 nature that an area can grow into it and out of it. It's such a dynamic size, so we never know exactly how many hectares of what we have in Denmark. The consultation answers point to this concern that there is a long time to 1 July 2022 and that there may be an incentive to prevent one's land from growing into § 3 because one then loses the right of disposal over them as landowners. And I understand that one is thinking about it, and that is why there is a fear that this will lead to, to some extent, a inferior position for our nature, because it will lead to a plowing of some land, to prevent them from growing in and becoming § 3 nature, and to stop the grazing of some land to prevent them from growing in and becoming § 3 nature. What has the rapporteur done about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424145143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424145144	In fact, I think that the rapporteur has a very real point, and I am very concerned about that too. However, I have so much faith in the farmers landowners and landowners who are out there, so that they also care about the nature and the meadows, the bogs that are, and just don't come to what can you say to grow these areas harder and press the lands, so they end up not becoming § 3 areas. But I find this worrying and if the rapporteur has a good solution to that particular challenge, I would be very happy to hear it, because I think, in fact, to be honest, that it is difficult to find out what else we can do. But that's one side of the coin. The other side of the coin is that I think these are areas we need to protect, and then I think this is what we need to do. So if the power one day changes, there are some metrics that give the Social Democratic majority in relation to everything I hope you will keep it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424145241	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424145243	Today it is nice to see that farmers care so much about § 3 nature and about their nature in general that they care about it in a way that makes much of it grow into a § 3 protection. And today they are not afraid to let it do so because they have the right to have the same operation of it as before. They must not make changes to their condition, but they must apply it in the same way as they have done in the past. But they're gonna lose that right with this. One way one could accommodate this is just one idea that I just got, while we were standing here and having the dialogue, was that one might say that for a period of time the old rules for all the areas that from today until 1 July 2022 grow into a § 3 protection. This will actually mean that there will be an incentive to keep caring for nature until that date.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424145322	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424145324	If you could make a compromise, which then was about everything that, from that day on, is § 3 - protected, which is the 37,000 hectares - was something that should not be sprayed and fertilised in the future, it might well be that it was a compromise that could be reached, but then it will have to be during a transitional period, because if some other areas, for example, were to be taken into account. That is what we are going to protect today. I also think that they should be better protected in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424145354	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424145408	Thank you. Actually, I've spent a lot of energy and effort on this bill. On the one hand, I fully acknowledge the crisis in our nature, and I fully acknowledge the poor conservation status of so many of our habitat types in so many of our species. This is a huge crisis that we are facing, and it requires us to do something together. I welcome the fact that there are plans to create a biodiversity package, and I believe that this is the right way to go, just as we also made a natural package when we had the power of government. But frankly, I think this is wrong, I think it is simply wrong, and I think that we are failing as a cooperative government of the people. I have to be honest with you. I think it's a huge failure. There was a set of rules that changed in 2014, and then there was an opposition, a bourgeois opposition that said: if we win the elections, we change it again. Then you won the election and changed it. Then there was a new opposition that said: if we win the election next time, we will change it. You won the election, and now you change it. It can't go on like this. It's not sustainable, and it gives an uncertainty for all the landowners, the 9,000 farms that have land that belong to this protection category. I think it is a declaration of failure for us as Parliament that we cannot find each other in a compromise that provides security that provides a certainty that gives a predictability in terms of how we regulate this nature type. I am not only addressing that criticism to the government that is there now, because we should have been better able to do that ourselves when we changed it at the time. I just want to say that it can't go on like this when we zigzag every time the government changes. I simply do not think we are our role as Parliament, if that is the way we should do it. In fact, I also think I can sense the same criticism from KL in their hearing response. They point to all the times this has been changed. They say that they have an alternative model which could be seen as a kind of compromise proposal excluding fresh meadows. Let us try to discuss their alternative proposals, let us try to see other alternative proposals. I fully agree with that, sir. René Christensen said earlier on the platform, and I think he made an excellent speech summing up the dilemmas in this. I fully acknowledge that there are some § 3 types of nature today that need to be better protected than we do today, but I do not recognise that this is the general regulation that we have to put down on it. But I think we should be able to find each other in a compromise. This concerns 9,000 farms, 37,000 ha. Agriculture & Food says that their assessment is that it is more like 44,000 hectares. It is called general non-replaceable regulation, and it is true political language, but it just means, in practice, that we go in and take possession of land that we could previously decide for ourselves, and then we decide politically what the land should be used for, and I think that is fundamentally wrong. One thing is that one loses an annual turnover on the operation one has had on that land, but that also means that the land loses value because the other just cannot be used as widely as it could so far. That is what I also asked Mrs Mette Gjerskov about earlier. The figures I referred to there were among others. from the old Nature Plan Denmark, which were calculations made by the official work at the time when it was estimated at 1.17 billion. kr., and it was then without this reschedule ban. It was the numbers from there, so it was in that way official numbers and not just something I so puff up. I do not think this is the right way to do it, and I also expressed the concern about Mrs Mai Villadsen earlier than 1 July 2022, that is, how we ensure that there are the right incentives up to then. Because I think there are plenty of farmers who care about their land today, who care about it and who are part of nature management projects and everything else, but I understand that their incentives to make it forward will be weakened when this is the reward for it. I also think this is a rather unfortunate breach of the somewhat more cooperative approach we have seen in relation to agriculture over the last few years. I think it has been super nice that Agriculture & Food and Denmark's Nature Conservation Association have come together to propose a number of concrete things. They have come together in relation to streams with some recommendations to us politicians. I think it is a bit a break with the good tradition that was about to come in relation to finding common solutions in this area that can take account of both agriculture and nature and generally those who own this land. I believe that, both with my questions and with my speech here today, I have said that the Conservative People's Party will not vote in favour of this bill. I would also like to say that I really want to remind myself that when we are going to think about good ideas for the next election, and what we are going to go to the polls, I will say to myself that I have to be more resourceful than just suggesting rolling back yours, be more inventive to find a common model that makes this not to be a throwing ball back and forth for the next many decades. But we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424145917	Thank you. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424145946	Thank you for the floor. It is common sense to take good care of nature, and we already do so with Section 3 of the Nature Conservation Act, which is about protecting special habitats. To a large extent, we are talking about around 10%. of Denmark's land area, and this bill then deals with 37,000 hectares of these. It is therefore a fairly large area of Denmark which the ban on this bill deals with an area in which many farmers operate profitable agriculture with a view to sustainability. Against this background, it can be discussed whether the draft law can be justified in essential nature protection interests, as stated in the draft law. The natural content of the culture is limited, as it is of course operating areas, and it may take a long time before the land becomes a plus for nature and biodiversity. With the possible adoption of L 164 and the introduction of the bans, areas under § 3 nature protection areas can no longer be operated profitablely. The ban will therefore have major economic consequences for the agricultural industry. Agriculture & Food estimates the total operating losses resulting from the ban on fertilising and spraying to be around 66 million. kr. per years. Furthermore, there will be further losses in finding alternative outlets for manure and special conditions concerning special production, feed supply, ecology and the location of land. I therefore believe that the legislative text underestimates the consequences for the agricultural industry and the economic consequences for agriculture should be re-calculated. And precisely because the consequences do not measure up to the plus effect on nature and biodiversity and farmers are not being fully compensated, New Citizens cannot support the adoption of L 164.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424150123	Thank you. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424150135	Thank you for the floor. The idea of the proposal here is, of course, to ensure more biodiversity, but the question is, of course, how much biodiversity the proposal really guarantees. The areas affected by the bill are, of course, very much those already characterised by cultivation, and therefore they also have a low natural value. On a scale from 0 to 13 for natural value, more than half of the areas have a value of less than 5, and there are only approx. 10% having a value of more than 7. So it is not magnificent nature that the proposal here protects. Nevertheless, it will have quite a major impact on agriculture: a financial loss, which can be discussed, of between 40 million. kr. and 60 million. kr., but also a value loss of land, which, according to some estimates, amounts to as much as 1.8 billion. kr. So that's not a good suggestion. But I would like to use my speaking time to sign for the very good speech made by Mrs Abildgaard. Because it is true that there has been a development in recent years, when we are rolling back each other's proposals, and then we are just as far as we are concerned. All the time I have spent in the Folketing, I have worked in the field of education, and there we have a tradition of not rolling each other's ideas back. It might also have looked pretty, that then you had 4 years of circular pedagogy and then 4 years with the small table and then 4 more years of circular pedagogy. That is not the way to run a school system; it would give a chaotic course for the children who go to school. So we spend the time we need, in the Education Committee and in various conciliation circles, and it can be a great deal of time to talk about how we organise the education sector in a way that we do not have to change it all the time. It may well be that one of the places where the co-operative popular government must show what it is capable of in the years to come could also be in this area. And now it is not because I have to use all my speaking time this afternoon to highlight the part of the country in which I live, but I will mention it anyway, because in south-west Jutland, where I live, the experience economy is a billion-dollar business, and the experience economy is also very dependent on having some magnificent nature to show, while the economic importance of agriculture is, of course, also very well known. And that's what you find out you can find out. It is not the case that the contradictions are completely unsolvable between the experience economy and agriculture. There are actually people in Denmark who can solve this issue, so that it is not about a zero-sum game where no one can make any sense of it. So that was a good speech. Of course, it's somehow future music, because we've gotten into this syndrome of rolling each other's changes back all the time. It is good that we do not manage school and research and public transport in the same way, but here we do. This may not be the best way to solve the problems. But this proposal is out of proportion, as it has been put forward, and therefore we cannot support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424150516	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424150533	Thank you. This morning in the first rays of the sun, while many of us were asleep I did at least start life in a lot of small communities around Denmark. It was life in the bogs, in the meadows and in the wild nature along the coasts, which we call excessive. Here there are frogs, flower flies, beetles and lizards and amphibians and flowers, and there is much to be done on such a sunny day in April. Many of the areas are also called § 3 nature areas, and they have been protected for 30 years, but it has still been possible to spray and fertilise and remodel many of them, and therefore many of the areas do not have at all the flora and fauna to which they have the potential. Fortunately, we are changing this today by banning spraying, manure and the conversion of 37,000 ha of 3 areas. This creates optimal conditions for the wild nature that many of us love to enter to develop and grow. This means that the desire for greater biodiversity, i.e. more diverse nature, as that word means, has once again entered the Assembly Hall, and that is why we are now reaching out to animals and insects and plants in the bogs, meadows and overflowing along the coasts. Together with Bangladesh, we are actually the country in the world most covered by agriculture. As I remember the figures are approx. 60% of Denmark covered by agriculture. Approx. 80% of the products from here go to animal feed. This leads to a comprehensive CO2 This is about saving and strengthening the small and large oases in nature, which we have protected as § 3 areas. In the alternative, we would like to go further and introduce similar rules for other types of soil and soil. That's what we're working for. We are also looking forward to negotiating biodiversity legislation, a biodiversity package, in the Ministry of the Environment, which will hopefully be so ambitious that this legislation will be regarded as a start. The alternative supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424150812	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's the Minister for the Environment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424150823	Thank you. I have to say that I think today is a good day. I am so glad that we can now deal with this bill, which is intended to ensure better conditions for biodiversity in natural areas protected by Article 3 of the Nature Conservation Act. Nature in Denmark is in decline, and on the most recent red list more than 4,400 species appear as redlisted; it corresponds to 42 per cent. of the species assessed. At the same time, it is the experts' assessment that more red-listed species are in decline than are in progress. A number of other reports give the same picture that we need to help nature, which is under pressure. For example: a study has shown that over the last 40 years Denmark has lost more than 2.9 million birds, which are specially linked to the arable land. This is among other things. Backed for vibes, singing larks and partridges. Therefore, we also need to take better care of our nature. This applies, among other things, to: these light-open natural areas protected by Article 3 of the Nature Conservation Act. By imposing a ban on spraying, fertilisation and conversion of protected areas, better habitats can be created for protected natural areas for the benefit of birds, insects and plants. A large part of the area is already protected, but approx. 37,000 ha of meadows and beaches, these activities can legally take place today. Spraying, fertilization and conversion increase the agricultural yield of the land, but the operation also means that there are fewer habitats for the wild species. The fresh meadows in our river valleys and the beaches on our shores are protected because they have a natural value. That is why it does not make sense for us to continue to allow, now almost 30 years after the law came into force, for them to be sprayed, fertilised and reorganised. When it stops, there will be room for nature on the land. There will gradually be more and more species on the land, because they will have better living conditions; that goes without saying. This also increases the natural values on the land, and I think that is important to say to the rapporteurs who have criticised the fact that the natural values are not high enough; that is precisely because there is agricultural farming on those lands. If we adopt this proposal, it means more flowering plants, more locusts, butterflies, other insects, and it is for the benefit of birds such as singing larks, vibe and starlings, all of which are in decline. It must continue to be possible to combat invasive species, which is why the draft law also provides for the possibility for municipalities to grant derogations from the prohibition in particular cases, such as: to combat invasive species and to protect ancient memories. A ban on spraying, fertilization and conversion is estimated to have financial consequences for the industry of 40 million. kr. a year. These calculations include what is a loss of yield when we are not allowed to fertilise and restructure, and this may mean that farmers either have to buy additional feed or have fewer animals. I cannot rule out that this loss of yield may mean that there would be some farmers who choose to stop grazing or hayshelling of either the directly affected areas or other § 3 protected areas, but grazing or hayshell cannot compensate for the bad impact on nature on the land that is now fertilised or remodelled. Fertilisation and conversion leave little room for many wild species of plants and animals. Therefore, the overall effect of a ban on the use of manure and the conversion of an improvement to nature is on the land, even if the land is not grazing or used for hayshed. The draft law is proposed to enter into force on 1 July 2022, and it is also about the fact that the pilot owners concerned will be given the opportunity to adapt their operations to new rules precisely for the same reason. For most farms, the ban is deemed to be limited in intensity and, in situations where a farmer is particularly hard hit, there is a possibility of obtaining compensation for expropriation or exemption. With the bill, we create a richer nature in protected natural areas by creating better habitats for, among other things. birds, insects and plants. And I had actually hoped that by 2020 we could have celebrated that it was five years ago that we adopted it, but unfortunately it was the case that, even though it was adopted there in 2015, it was rolled back by the former Blue Government. Now we are doing it again, and we are doing it, because nature has not been better in recent years, on the contrary. This bill is needed, and I look forward to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424151314	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Erling Bonnesen, and the next one is from Mrs. Mette Abildgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424151317	Thank you. As we have already mentioned in the debate, we all want to do well in nature, but it is clear that there are different positions. We have discussed this in the debate. However, I should like to note in my two brief remarks that there is clearly a clear loss for the farmers concerned. After all, the minister is now saying that this is an assessment. But then you could also make a statement now and say that we need to find ways of getting it done. You could start by getting a statement and it should then be my question that, to the extent that it can be made up, assessed and offset the loss, will the Minister and the government provide full compensation and compensation for the losses it causes, including the economic losses?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424151405	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424151406	I think that what it is important to say, and that is also what I said at the outset in my speech, is that it will affect approx. 9,000 farms, but on average it will cost less than 5,000 kroner. a year. In other words, most farms will not have very many lands and hectares; for the 7 000 farms, less than 5 hectares will be affected by this. Then I also say very frankly that there may be some holdings that have many § 3 areas, and in that situation there may be an expropriation or an exemption, and if expropriated, of course it is with compensation. That goes without saying. But otherwise we see it as a replacement-free regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424151450	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424151451	I mean, we can't just make this clear through an average consideration either. The Minister himself says that there are situations in which some will be affected much of it. After all, the Minister himself mentions some average considerations. But this can't just be put in place through some average considerations. So can we get a clear message from the minister that there will be full compensation for the losses that big and small will be? We can start by asking directly: where is the limit? I hear the Minister is trying to get around it. Where's the limit? Do you have to go through a trial to get this in place? I think that would be quite unreasonable. So can we not try to get the Minister and the government a little further forward on the point that it would be quite all right for us to discuss it and get full compensation and compensation when it is that society goes out and says that we are taking action?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424151543	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424151544	I can repeat my answer because it is not because I am not answering. That is because the rapporteur disagrees with my answer. It's two different things. I fully acknowledge that the Left is somewhere else. After all, we have had the discussion before. I can be annoyed that with all the focus that has been on our nature, and with the great need for us to do this here, also in relation to the open country, we are not somewhere else. You don't. What I referred to is that too far, by far, the vast majority of these holdings will be very few hectares of § 3 land, namely less than 5 hectares. Then there may be some farmers who may be exceptionally badly affected. After all, we have taken this into account by ensuring that either an expropriation will provide compensation, of course, or that a derogation can be granted. And then there are two years to adapt to the new rules for the farmers who will be affected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424151635	Thank you, and then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard. The next one is sir. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424151642	I actually fully acknowledge that for many of the 9 000 farms there will be a lower number of hectares, but as the Minister himself says, there may also be some where there will be a larger number of hectares and where it may fall within the category of expropriation. The minister says it will be when there is an extraordinary area, but what is it? In other words, can the Minister give me just a little bit more insight into what it takes for it to be expropriation: can one say this as a percentage of the land owned by a farm, or can one say it as a special number of hectares? What are the criteria like for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424151724	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424151725	It is true that the assessment is that there may be some who may be more affected by the bill than many of them, i.e. the average, which has less than 5 hectares of these types of land. That is also why I think it is good that there is the possibility that either an expropriation compensation can be granted or a dispensation can be made. And that will depend on a concrete assessment, so that is why what the rapporteur is asking for is not something that can be said in advance, because it will depend on the specific situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424151757	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424151758	But that is simply not an answer. Well, actually, I think it is a little dishonest to put forward a bill in the Folketing, ask us to spend our day commenting on it today, and then when I ask for something that specific, I cannot get a clear answer. It is, of course, a breach of all normal principles of legal certainty that you cannot give an estimate of how you assess it. We must assume that it will be assessed in the same way from one farmer to the other farmer, but I cannot get a clear answer as to when there is such a large number that it is an expropriation. I have asked whether it could be percentages or whether it could be hectares, and I have asked when this possibility of derogation can be used. If the Minister does not answer me here orally, I may have to ask you in writing. And I would also like to know if there has been a calculation of the value loss on the land, just as was done in connection with the nature plan in 2014, when it was estimated at 1.17 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424151843	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424151844	Well, the answer is, as I just said, that it will be based on a concrete assessment, and the rapporteur may disagree with that, but that is the way it is. And I am also very happy to answer the written questions. In relation to the value of the land, the vast majority of the farms concerned will have just less than 5 ha of § 3 areas, and therefore any loss of land value will also represent a smaller part of the total value of each property. But we cannot, I cannot, the Ministry of the Environment and Food cannot recognise the figures that are also given from Agriculture & Food, i.e. the 1.8 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424151920	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424151927	Thank you for that, President. I would really like to ask the Minister something. Since this is so important, that is to say biodiversity and nature, has the Minister considered it more seriously, or has the Minister invited other parties to try to reach a broad agreement on this? How does the Minister see the progress from now on, when we are here at first reading? At any rate, I have such a feeling that none of the bourgeois parties have been invited to meetings. The Danish People's Party has certainly not, although biodiversity is of great concern to us. Why isn't the Minister trying to make a broad deal when we talk about nature, which is all of us?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424152005	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424152006	I believe that what is important to say is that there can of course be broad work in relation to nature, in other words the work we have started, with the nature and biodiversity package, where I have also invited the bourgeois rapporteurs several times to be part of that work. And then we have to see how far we can get together. It's an honest case. This is a specific legislative proposal, and there are plenty of legislative proposals in this Chamber where you have to take a position as a party. Do you agree or disagree, are there any corners that you would like to change? There is referral to committee and other matters, and of course we are very happy to reply to that. But I also think it is very concrete to say that we have this bill. We have also said before the elections that this is a very, very important matter for social democracy. We have now put that forward, and it is up to the parties to assess whether they agree or disagree.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424152053	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424152055	Then I would like to ask the Minister something, because that would be asked if you were in a debate. When the Minister says that it depends on a concrete assessment what this will cost compared to the individual farmer it was among other things. what the Conservatives were asking about what is the Minister's assessment of what the individual assessments will cost?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424152113	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424152114	I think what I said was that it would be a concrete assessment whether it was an expropriation or an exemption. That is where we are talking about a concrete assessment. For the assessment is made on the general, i.e. costs in relation to the bill, where you have looked at both the direct financial costs of the 19 million. kr., the 12 million. kr. in relation to the area of harmony and the 9 million. kr. relative to nitrogen. So it's not like you didn't make those calculations in relation to the bill. You have. However, it is clear that where there may be exceptional costs or a higher cost to farmers who are most affected, there may be either a derogation or an expropriation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424152158	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424152205	That depends on a concrete assessment, says the Minister. If you have to assess something, you have to assess it on the basis of something. Then the Minister cannot say what criteria it is that will be assessed when deciding whether someone can come under the rules in order to obtain compensation, possibly. By expropriation, or they can't?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424152223	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424152224	I can listen to the fact that the rapporteurs who have been on now disagree with the fact that these are generally non-replaceable regulations. We're just looking at that differently. I think that is a perfectly honest matter. We believe that when you introduce these two years, when you can adjust to the rules, we can do just fine. There are very few hectares in relation to the actual number of farms, and then there may be a few where it can be said that this is a large proportion, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424152305	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424152306	It'll be an estimate If it's a big thing It'll affect a lot It's not worthy of anyone involved in this in terms of legal certainty. It is said that we will be able to do so, after all, the Minister must come up with the criteria which are then estimated. Then I agree that it may be a concrete estimate whether it is within or outside the framework, but there must surely be some requirements and some objective criteria that we as an authority consider on the basis of which to decide whether a pilot can be compensated or not. So we in the Left are in favour of full and complete compensation, and I understand that the government will not, but if the government will only give it in some cases, then it must also be said under what conditions those affected can have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424152353	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424152354	But it is of course very interesting that the Left says that it is in favour of full and complete compensation because, as I hear the debate today, the Left is not in favour of the proposal at all. It is not felt that these meadows, which have been under the Nature Conservation Act for nearly 30 years now, should be protected by no longer spraying, no longer plowing, no more fertilizing, because we can see that it is damaging the natural value. The rapporteur of the Left also says that there is not very high natural value. No, that goes without saying, and it is about the fact that we have been allowed to continue with this practice for so many years, and that is what we are going to change. So, as I know, the Left will not back the bill, whether there was financial compensation or not. We then say that in the special cases and we consider that these are few cases where it may be that one is exceptionally hard hit, then either expropriation or dispensation can be looked at.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424152446	Thank you. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424152501	The debate is open. Mrs. Mette Gjerskov, the Social Democratic Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424152519	Thank you, President. Air pollution is a serious problem. Every year too many people in Denmark die precisely because of air pollution, and with this proposal we want to tighten the enforcement of environmental zones where specific requirements for vehicle exhausts apply. It must be harder to cheat, and we shall advance the date of entry into force six months for diesel-powered trucks and buses, so that we can reduce air pollution more quickly. This is our first step in the right direction when it comes to air pollution, a step towards more sustainability. It is absolutely essential for us as people to breathe, and if it is contaminated air that we are pulling down, then we will be more easily ill. After all, the environmental zones are now being enforced by the police. From now on, checks will be based on automatic reading of license plates. The old-fashioned stickers in the windscreens and such things will therefore become history, which means reducing the administrative burden on business and much better control of environmental areas. Fewer people will be able to look very much at the rules, and this is of course to the benefit of air quality in our cities, i.e. those with environmental zones. In addition, we also want to standardise environmental requirements for heavy-duty vehicles. Because when they were tightened in 2019, they went from being regulated according to the Euronorm to being regulated after a deadline for registration of cars, and on the basis of that change, the transport industry raised a criticism that the change would mean that hauliers who had invested early in a more environmentally friendly Euro-V truck would get into trouble. After all, no one is supposed to get caught if they have gone ahead and been environmentally friendly in the past. So, in fact, it meant that 900 trucks had to meet more stringent requirements before the others. However, the solution we are proposing equates all lorries that meet the Euro V and EEV standards, and it is all very technical, but it is a question of securing those who have invested in particulate filters and preventing them from being punished. After all, the proposal also takes account of those road hauliers, so that the law becomes fair. We also bring forward the date of entry into force of the requirement for particulate filters for trucks and buses registered before 2014 by 6 months until 1 January 2022 instead of 1 July 2022. Then we are sure that there will be an environmental impact of this proposal. Both the strengthening and enforcement of existing environmental requirements and the advance of the date of entry into force are important instruments for ensuring better air, fewer pollutant particles in our cities and better health. We must take air quality seriously. That is why, of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424152939	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424152957	Thank you to the Minister for putting forward the proposal, which is, of course, a follow-up to an agreement we made before the elections when the Left sat in government. I think that my President would almost go so far as to say that it was his invention, but nevertheless, of course, we are overall positive, although I will just come back to a scepticism that we also have. Now I have heard that several rapporteurs have talked about their own experiences, and here early this morning I went for a walk in the woods with our dog, and in this connection I thought about • living out in the West Zealand, out in the nice open country, I think that you are privileged when you can walk and breathe some fresh air. But it is not everyone's fault, especially in the larger cities, and that is why it is also very good and good that we have a good and broad agreement on creating better air quality, including reducing CO2 emissions, based on the environmental zones of the larger cities. The quality of air and the health of the Danes in general mean a great deal to us in the Left, just as I know that it does for everyone else in this Chamber, and that is why, as I said, we first introduced the environmental zones and the demand for particulate filters. In this context, I have also been in contact with trade organizations and road hauliers, and you can also see in the various consultation answers what their opinion is and that they are actually very positive and accommodating to several of the elements. For example, they are very, very positive about digitalised enforcement, which means that the environmental zone marks are replaced by an automatic license plate recognition. This is, of course, a textbook example of how technology can be used to make it easier and less bureaucratic, including for companies. The element, which Mrs Gjerskov also mentioned, also relates to exempting heavy goods vehicles which meet, among other things. I am not going to go into these Euro-V standards, there are others who are smarter than I am, so the requirements for those cars will nevertheless be uniform for all Euro-V vehicles, we are also very positive about and happy about. But where we are then a little less satisfied is in relation to the environmental zone law introduced by the previous government. It was agreed that the rules should be tightened per year. 1 July 2022, so that trucks registered before 1 January 2014 had to have fitted a particulate filter in order to drive into the environmental zones. This is the path that is now going down, both in relation to the time when it should apply, i.e. six months earlier, and that more cars will be included so that it is no longer from 2014, but 2015 it will apply. I therefore believe that this is not the time to place additional burdens on companies, which are already heavily strained economically by the current situation. That is why we do not believe that it is now time to introduce what will then hit in the vicinity of 3,400 lorries and buses, as this could have major consequences for these hauliers, which it includes. We would certainly like to have a more precise calculation of both the economy, that is to say the costs that lie behind it, and whether we could possibly find some models so that we could help this type of company, perhaps just temporarily, through and across the faster phase-in, so that they can be freed financially if you choose to run it through it, and of course also some calculations of what it is then for an environmental effect you get from introducing this tightening. Because we are very concerned about the environmental impact of the efforts you make everywhere, and here we have our doubts. Of course, everything else will have an environmental impact, but to measure up to the economic consequence and thus also right now, when we can see that we have to keep our hands under our businesses and our jobs in every possible way, we do not see that exactly that part of the proposal does. However, as I have said, we are generally positive about the other parts. It should also be strange other, since it comes from an agreement that we ourselves have been banner leaders of the committee work, but we would like to ask about the consequences of environmental as well as economic as it has, and possibly come back with amendments that could improve it overall. Those were supposed to be the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424153428	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424153436	Thank you for your statement and for the nice and positive words that also came about on the legislative proposal. I'm a little puzzled about something. I am sure that the rapporteur will be able to get all the figures and calculations he wants, and we will probably be able to find out about that. But you gotta take the pissed off with the cute one. On the one hand, we are doing something to help some people through because they have invested very early in the environment and, on the other hand, we have to make sure that we have a positive record of air pollution here. I mean, you can't just take the sweet stuff and then you wouldn't take the pissed off. Things are connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424153528	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424153529	Yeah, but that depends on the starting point. What was on the part of the previous government also has a positive record. One might ask why it is only brought forward by six months and not by 12 months, because then it would also have given an even more positive account. So there's a balance of why you put the cut right there. This, of course, has consequences for those carriers, those who have to invest earlier than they should have done otherwise. I recognise, as I said in my speech, the part which makes it possible to equate and thus not harm those who had taken the lead in some environmental measures. We recognise that and that is fine and good. However, precisely in this situation, where we are very careful in all other contexts and go quite the other way in keeping our hands under our jobs and our businesses, I wonder why such a proposal is being put forward right now. I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424153620	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424153622	I think it is important to stress that this is not, of course, a proposal that has arisen during the Corona situation and during the Corona crisis it was from before. But that does not change the fact that it is important that there is a positive result in relation to air pollution in that proposal, and that requires a balance in order. Perhaps I would just like to emphasise this by saying that this is necessary. And then I agree that we are taking the discussions in committee, I would very much like to do so, and I am pleased with the outstretched hand in it. But it is important that the balance is in order.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424153701	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424153701-2	I'll sign for that. But what my message is, as it were, is that we are completely involved in all those parts, which, funny enough, is something that sprang from past times when we had government responsibilities. We just have a concern about the economic consequence that is being put into this, i.e. whether it is in line with the environmental impact. But we could also find a model in which to compensate those road hauliers who then have to finance these things six months earlier or whatever you could imagine. So we maintain the extra-large environmental benefit, which I fully agree with, we must have a full focus on. As I started by saying, not everyone in this country is able to breathe fresh air, and of course it should be, so we can find a model for it, of course we are also open to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424153742	Thank you. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line and we have come to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424153757	Thank you for that, President. Then we stand here with a proposal, and it can be said that the point is that we should move from stickers, as I think the Socialist rapporteur said, to electronic plate recognition. And that is quite an achievement we are experiencing here, from manually going out and checking and looking into the windshield as a human being and to now being able to do it automatically. We are, of course, completely in favour of this in the Danish People's Party, and it is indeed also an agreement that has emerged from a financial bill debate that we were part of. I must also say that we have a few questions on what was also included at the time, but I do not think we can read the answers. It's Sund & Bælt who's supposed to be doing this, and we're quite comfortable about that, because they're good at making these solutions, but license plate recognition can also be used to fight crime, and there we have some questions about whether the police have the opportunity to access this material too. If you know there has been a crime and if some cars have passed by, can this license plate recognition also be used by the police, that is, for purposes other than checking if you are in the right environmental zone with the right car? Another point that lies in it is, of course, what the Left was also doing, namely to move forward to 1 January instead of 1 June, i.e. the six months that we are moving forward. One can think about whether six months can do something from or through, and that it probably doesn't mean much, but it actually means a lot, because the investments are quite large. When you talk buses and commercial vehicles, you talk investments in the millions class, and that's why we in the Danish People's Party are a little sad that you have put it to advance into this otherwise very good proposal. Then it is true, as Mrs Gjerskov also said, that compromises have been made elsewhere in relation to the Euro V standard, and we are, in fact, glad that the professional-friendly glasses have been put on there and have said that those who have taken the lead and shown the good example should not be punished politically at a later stage. So we're really happy about that. But for the fact that the calculation has to go straight up, I would say that there are some who get, and then some others have to pay for it is not one for one. I say this in relation to those who benefit from a Euro V and those who now need to be moved forward in relation to the Euro VI standard. So it's not because you have to use corona as a lever for everything, but in the situation we're in right now, when business is under pressure, you should be able to take this thing out. I would also like to say in relation to air pollution that it is probably not the six months that are doing so. It is, of course, a fine signal to send out in such a proposal, but we will certainly see if, in the course of the committee's work, we can have a good dialogue with the government on how we deal with this advance in the six months. Otherwise, of course, we can vote in favour of the proposal and we have a few questions as to whether the police can use the material.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424154058	Thank you. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Zenia Stampe, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424154111	Thank you. We support the proposal, but this is an area that we have been discussing for so many years and on which we have also had an ongoing and excellent discussion with the government and the Social Democratic Party, if I may say so too, because it was indeed the case that when the previous bourgeois government prepared this proposal, we actually produced a joint report in which we were very ambitious in terms of creating a better urban air environment. Indeed, we had hoped that the joint contribution of the report we made together with the Social Democratic Party, when the Social Democrats were not in government, would be the same level that we worked for if the Social Democrats were given the power of government and with us as support parties. I do not wish to deny that it ends there either, but it is a debate and a discussion that we have with the Social Democrats, which is both about ambition but also about the economy. When I make this introduction, it is because this is a step in the right direction, understood in the sense that it makes it possible, first of all, to make it possible for it to be improved, because there is a requirement for particulate filters on these heavy vehicles, but it is no secret that at the same time we want environmental zones which also include smaller cars, i.e. passenger cars; we want to set even higher standards. And there are also other areas we would like to discuss, for example. wood stove, which fills much more in this account than I think most people know. And that way, this is for us to see only the beginning. If I am going to go down in the technique of this proposal, then there are two such substantial things in addition to the technical implementation of environmental zones. One is that these 900 heavy vehicles, which are Euro V vehicles, but which were Euro V vehicles before the deadline, are included. After all, it has an environmental impact on the original proposal. And that is something that we certainly do not like to have to support the government in the first place, and it is doing so now that we have a new and more ambitious majority, which we think it is in terms of air pollution, the tiny bit of evil to say yes to something that really has an environmental impact. On the other hand, we can understand the objections to the requests we have received, that is to say, that you have to put these road hauliers or those who have these vehicles on an equal footing. So if you have invested in a more environmentally friendly euro standard, two years before it became mandatory, then you should not be penalised for it. But because we want the accounts to go up for the environment doesn't really care about equal treatment, and I don't know what we're really happy that we're doing this tightening at the other end, where we're speeding up the implementation of these particle requirements by 1⁄2 years. So yes, we are creating a short-term environmental deterioration in relation to what was the starting point. And we're sorry about that. We are also sorry about the people who are pushing in the big cities and who are really losing patience: I'm sorry to you, but we don't like to compromise on equal treatment principles; in return we get this faster implementation of the particle requirements for this whole fleet. That is why we believe that, overall, this is better than the starting point, but it is also important for us to stress that for us this is primarily the technological implementation of environmental zones, and then comes the discussion about ambition and how we set the demands. It'll come later. Yes, we have taken a step now, but that in no way prevents us from taking more steps in a more ambitious direction. That is certainly our intention, and we have made that very clear to the government. And we also believe that the government is listening and would also like to be involved in even more, but there is also something called funding, so that is why it is a debate that we can hopefully take soon, but where there is also a question of kronor and ear. It would be fantastic if it were a subject that we could discuss more widely in the Danish Parliament, because exactly in this area I also have the feeling that it may not be so party political, but in reality it is just as much about where you have your everyday life, where the children grow up. Because I also hear that there are a great many of those elected in the big cities, from the bourgeois parties, who want even greater ambitions to be set in this area, yes, even the possibility of zero emission zones. We are also strongly in favour of this, and it is also one of the things we are working on together with the government and, incidentally, together with the major cities in Denmark. So, yes, thank you for this, but it's not the big celebration. Hopefully it'll come soon. And that's why I'm gonna tell everyone who's working on this in the big cities that we're not done at all. Our goal is, of course, that we get clean air in the cities, so we don't get these many premature deaths. It's barely 3,000 a year in Denmark because of air pollution. We haven't finished this work yet with this law, but it's an important step on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424154648	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424154657	Thank you. I think that former rapporteurs who have been up here have argued very well for the importance of this proposal and the good in its content, so I actually think I will just continue where Mrs Zenia Stampe left off. This is indeed a proposal which adjusts L 191, which the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the SF wrote a joint report contribution to 30 April 2019. That is to say, it is quite precisely a year ago today. At that time, we promised each other, as Mrs Zenia Stampe also said, that if we obtained a majority after the elections, we would implement ambitious environmental zones in accordance with four principles, which I would like to remind you of. Firstly, all municipalities must have the opportunity to introduce environmental zones into urban areas of a certain size, so that there is an opportunity to establish significantly more environmental zones than today, and not just in the five largest cities. Secondly, in the case of lorries, buses and vans, compliance with Euro 6 standards must be required. The new Euro requirements must apply fully to both particles and NOx when they enter into force, and there must therefore be no loophole where driving is permitted only because a particulate filter is retrofitted. Thirdly, for passenger cars, Euro 5 standards or better must be required. Fourthly, local authorities must be able to set standards for the pollution of machinery in the environmental zone. We have promised each other that the austerity measures should be implemented as quickly as possible. I would therefore like to know when it will be possible for all municipalities to introduce their own environmental zones into urban settlements of a certain size. I would also like to know what the aim of the effort is. I know that there are EU requirements for air quality and that there are WHO requirements that are tougher. And changing governments have tried to keep them as the only goal in managing the effort. But will the government help us to set concrete targets for reducing the number of deaths and respiratory diseases caused by air pollution? It might be interesting to get an answer to that. Could we, for example, do this? halve the number of deaths by maybe 2030? Does the government have a bid for that? After all, we have similar objectives in the field of road accidents and road deaths and, moreover, in many other areas. I think that there is a need to make the problem more visible and, above all, the solution, and we believe that a national objective can contribute to this. As Mrs Zenia Stampe also said, air pollution contributes to a great many deaths a year in Denmark, where 1,200 of them are due to Danish pollution. In fact, in the situation we are in right now, everything suggests that corona is hitting people with respiratory and lung diseases harder than others, which is why it is not inconceivable that early deaths occur as a consequence of a mixture of corona and too little action against air pollution. So I think it is time for us to get a little more speed on our efforts here. We can, of course, rely on the common understanding that I presented just now, which we made a year ago in the centre-left, and we can include wood stoves and air pollution from agriculture and much more when discussing instruments. However, this presupposes that the government will be involved in a concerted effort and that the Minister will not confine himself to putting himself in the slipstream of what is now coming out of the climate negotiations on cleaner cars. SF supports this bill here. We certainly believe that this is a step forward, but much more is needed as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424155034	Thank you. And as far as I can see, no one has signed in. So we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, and that is Mrs Mai Villadsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424155047	Thank you. Right now, we are in the midst of a corona crisis as a community. Our society is in some ways shut down, and a lot of people are sick. Well, that's awful, of course. There is one thing, however, that we actually see improved in these times, and that is air quality. It is no longer only in the countryside, as the rapporteur of the Left has just mentioned, that you feel the fresh air; at least it has improved, including in the cities. And air pollution is a huge problem, as has also been said from the platform in the past. It is an invisible killer who kills everything every year, too many people, of course we must have prevented that. It is important that we tighten up on environmental areas, not only for business transport but also for passenger cars, and I fully agree with the rapporteurs who have been standing here, most recently SF's Carl Valentin, who told us how we have stated in a group of parties that we will go much further than that I think is important soon. However, this proposal is about business transport and is an adjustment to what we decided last year, namely that the label in the window is replaced by digital monitoring in order to provide a much more effective control, which is, of course, a good thing, but of course not entirely without problems or challenges, as I would rather put it. Because it is no secret that we in the Enhedslisten are always on our toes every time there are new opportunities for monitoring in our society, and that is why I have looked into the comments that mention how the government intends to translate this into practice. I fully understand the background to this bill and can easily see how it will provide more effective control over the rules that we very much, very much, would like to see observed. That is why I also hope that the Minister is willing to respond to a number of small but important requests from the Enhedslisten in relation to data security. It appears from the consultation note that the Data Protection Agency had a number of comments, and the consultation note states that they have been taken into account and addressed and clarified there where the Data Protection Agency wished to do so. It would be very nice if the Minister would make a little more progress before the second reading and perhaps obtain a new opinion from the Data Protection Agency confirming that they feel that they are satisfied. For Enhedslisten, it is of course also crucial that there is a precise framework for when the data are deleted. However, when it comes to foreign vehicles and when manual processing is carried out, I think that the wordings are a bit foggy, so this is something that we want to drill out in committee. What are the deadlines for deletion? And can we get some as sharp as those for domestic vehicles? I hope we can clarify that. Then the legal notes also say something about the license plate not being stored in the vehicle database. I have some doubts as to why this is highlighted, because it can be interpreted as if it is ok to hide it elsewhere. I certainly do not assume that is what is meant, but it would be nice to be sure of that too. One last thing in relation to the monitoring aspect is that, in cases where images are to be used for a fine or for a trial, it is clear that they must be used for a document • it must remain in place but it is rather unclear when these data should then also be deleted when they have been used for documentation, so it could be really nice for us in the Enhedslisten if it was clarified in the legislative work. Then I would like to turn to another aspect of this legislation, which several people have also touched on, namely the adjustment of phase-in. I must admit that I am actually a little confused and hope that the Minister can make me a little smarter. On the one hand, there has been criticism from some progressive road hauliers who have been at the forefront and invested in environmentally sound trucks. They were critical of the fact that they now had to be punished because the legislation has time limits which mean that their lorries are not considered environmentally sound enough and therefore cannot access the cities. That is, of course, not fair, it is clear. After all, we should encourage road hauliers and people in general to take the lead in the green transition; it is clear that they should not be punished. So far, so good. But if I read the comments correctly, it will be realized by making a more general relaxation, and I would like to have that bored out why and whether I misunderstand. It may be that I am misreading the remarks. I hope that the Minister will spell it out for me and others, whom this relaxation really involves. Because could you not just give all the good, cool hauliers a direct derogation and say: finished work? But all in all, I would like to sum up that Enhedslisten of course thinks it is right, very good, that we are tightening up in relation to environmental zone legislation, because we need to protect our air environment and the alternative has far too much health consequences. But I look forward to the work of the committee, where, as the speech shows, I have a number of questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424155630	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424155638	Thank you. After all, what we are discussing here today affects our five largest urban municipalities and the environmental zone regulation that is there to ensure that we breathe cleaner and cleaner air into our cities along the way. This coronatide has brought a lot of negative with it, but I also think it has been a bit of an eye-opener for many people in relation to air quality in cities and what it means when there is suddenly less transport, as there is everything else equal in these times. But of course that is not the solution for the future, and that is why we must ensure that these environmental zones are constantly tightened. We did so back in the spring of 2019, and we supported this in every possible way in the Conservative People's Party. We tightened up the technical requirements for diesel-powered trucks and buses and introduced new requirements for diesel-vehicles. With this bill, there are a few elements that are new. There's this digital control of the license plate, which, in popular terms, replaces this sticker, as several others have already mentioned. At first I also had some reflections on such monitoring and all sorts of other things, but I could actually see from the consultation answer that most people affected by this take it very quietly and say: for us, it's a relief in terms of trouble and bureaucracy that we shouldn't get this sticker, but that it runs automatically. The vast majority were quite enthusiastic about it, and as a politician I can live with it. I think what Mrs Mai Villadsen mentioned earlier in relation to the Data Protection Agency was very good. I think it is a very good idea to obtain such an up-to-date assessment from there in relation to the objections they had. Then there is another element which has not really been discussed in the Chamber today, but which I would just like to mention, because I think that is also worth considering. This is the point: if you can see that a vehicle is driving in the city that is not allowed to be there and a fine is issued, it goes to the owner of the vehicle automatically, and there are a few who question this in the consultation material in relation to legal certainty and so on.: Is it fair that it goes to the owner of the vehicle and not to the driver of the vehicle? It is, of course, a similar discussion that we have had with regard to passenger traffic and with regard to speeding tickets and other things, which have also begun to go directly to the owner. I think it is only necessary to say that if you own a bus or something else, you must also end up with the responsibility, even in relation to who is driving around in the cities and elsewhere they may not be. I think that is something that can be argued for. This problem will then be solved in relation to the 900 lorries that have been mentioned by others. I'd like to sign for that; it's really fine. Then there's this step two that you want to advance by 1⁄2 years. I have a lot of doubts about that, I must admit, and I think it is a little difficult, because when I hear from the industry, they say more: Oh no, move it 1⁄2 years the other way; we find it difficult enough to live up to this already. And all the other things you have to say, the corona crisis has hit this industry really hard. I got some figures from Danish Passenger Transport, to which they said: Well our tourist buses are 100 percent down right now; they are not going at all, either abroad or around the country, since we are not to be gathered, and the mixed driving, such as. In the past have solved a lot of tasks for kindergartens and other things, have been completely down for a long time, but it is a bit going on now. They say somewhere between 70 and 85%. of activity is down there too. It's just to say that it's an industry that's really hard hit, and I'm not sure if it's right now that we're gonna have to make this premonition for them and advance by 1⁄2 years. Then I have some input from our transport rapporteur, who is, of course, much nerdy compared to these standards than I am. He says "and it's my good colleague Niels Flemming Hansen who's pointing out these things that in the industry there's a desire to invest in new equipment that meets these rules instead of retrofitting a filter." He then points out that this retrofitting of a filter may be a solution for which they may be pressed, but he says that for example. Scania and Volvo go in and advise against it very directly. He points out that Codan goes in and says that retrofitting a particulate filter is to be regarded as a design change in the engine, and this may mean that they do not have insurance coverage anymore. It is very transport-specific, but I think that is something we have to listen to in some way, and it may also be that I am going to put some written questions to the Minister in relation to it, because in my world we have an interest in getting them to invest in new equipment instead of these particle solutions. But, as I said, it will be very transport-specific. But to be honest, we support the vast majority of this bill, and I think I will vote for it in the end, but we might well table amendments on this step-by-step 2 because we are simply concerned about whether it is a decision we have to take right now and whether it is going to hit the industry too hard and lead to some wrong investment. So it might be interesting to hear the Minister whether we could possibly split up the bill, and otherwise it will probably be an amendment on our part.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424160159	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the new citizens, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424160207	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. I have noted the general satisfaction of the consultation responses with the transition to a digital control system when it comes to environmental zones. The enforcement of environmental zones must be strengthened through digitalisation, and digitalisation therefore requires a more secure registration basis. The bill is also estimated to save the industry in the order of 65 million. kr. So we are very positive about that. Several of the rapporteurs have mentioned this problem of advancing step-by-step requirements no. 2 and if amendments are tabled to take it out of the draft law, we will support it. However, as a starting point, we are in favour of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424160258	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424160306	Thank you. After all, the bill here goes back to the time of the VLAK government, and on that basis alone one can agree that it cannot be quite bad. After all, the problem has been built into the proposal that it is changing budgeting for owners of commercial vehicles, because step-by-step requirements no. Two are being moved up six months. We are, of course, critical of this, because it is, at all events, an unsuitability to change the framework conditions, but it is also because we are in a period of economic pressure. So we hope that this will be considered in the course of the legislative process. However, the health problems and deaths related to air pollution are, of course, a major problem that we must take seriously. That is why we basically support the draft law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424160411	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the alternative, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424160419	I am the last man to close and turn off after a really, really nice day in the Chamber with four very good bills from the Minister for the Environment. So it's been a pleasure spending time with you guys. In the alternative, of course, we are in favour of improving air quality in large cities, so of course we are also in favour of digital enforcement of environmental zones. Right now we're getting reports that the air in the big cities is cleaner than rarely seen, and that's because we've killed parts of society in this corona crisis. But as soon as we get the wheels going again, we will have to legislate to prevent both killing and disease-causing air pollution. So we look forward to supporting this proposal and we are ready to go much further in the fight for fresh air in the countryside, but also in the big cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424160519	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we are through the rapporteur's line and I give the floor to the Minister for the Environment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424160525	Thank you. Too many Danes die prematurely or become ill as a result of air pollution, especially in the largest cities where most people travel and are exposed to pollution. A busy street in the transport sector is typically the dominant source of air pollution, especially during peak hours. The WHO has declared that soot from diesel vehicles is carcinogenic, and therefore it makes very good sense precisely to ensure less particulate pollution from diesel vehicles in the largest Danish cities. With our understanding paper, the tracks are set to transform the transport sector in a more green direction for the benefit of both the climate and the environment. The bill we are discussing today is a step towards cleaner air for the Danes. Following on from the environmental zone bill adopted by the Danish Parliament last May, the government proposes to tighten the enforcement of the rules for environmental zones. With automated and digital enforcement, the impact of environmental zones is strengthened with the clear aim of improving air quality. It must benefit the Danes and ensure better environment and health. With the bill, we assign the task of collecting data for control purposes to the state-owned Sund & Bælt company. They will set up 15 fixed cameras for control combined with 5 mobile cameras. The fixed cameras will sit on major main routes and be set up in cooperation with the individual municipality. The mobile cameras should then be used as a supplement and the use can be varied as necessary and in agreement with the Danish Environmental Protection Agency and the municipalities. The cameras will take pictures when the vehicles enter and leave the zone, and Sund & Bælt will be able to see the vehicle's registration data on the basis of the license plate. In this way, it will be possible to check whether the car complies with the environmental zone requirements. The Danish EPA will be responsible for enforcement and for issuing administrative fines on the basis of the data collected by Sund & Bælt. The introduction of the digital control will then replace the requirement that has been so far, namely for this environmental zone label in the windshield. And that makes it easier and provides less administration for business. With digital control, the government ensures good and effective enforcement of environmental zone rules to the benefit of continued improvement of air quality. With the bill, the government also wants to bring forward the demand for particulate filters for trucks and buses, as has also been mentioned, so that it enters into force 1⁄2 years before what was previously planned. This means that approx. 3,200 trucks and buses will have to adapt to the requirements 6 months before the date of the previous rules. The step-by-step requirement will therefore mean, once we have adopted it, that fewer carcinogenic particles are discharged, thus strengthening the impact of environmental zones. And then the advance makes sure that it's the coupling that several of you have entered into an environmental balance when all Euro V trucks and buses are regulated in the same direction. For the draft law also provides for equal treatment of Euro V trucks and buses, regardless of when the vehicles are purchased. This means that hauliers who have invested in being at the forefront of the green agenda should not get caught up in a date rule when trucks sold before and after the deadline meet the same environmental requirements. This is about approx. 900 trucks and buses, which are therefore regulated in conjunction with the other Euro V vehicles, which must have particulate filters of 1 January 2022 at the latest. The draft law therefore contains both a step-by-step approach and an exception for Euro V trucks and buses. Overall, the Ministry of the Environment estimates that the draft law has a smaller but positive environmental impact. The draft law introduces a conditional objective responsibility, which means that it is the owner of a vehicle who is responsible for breaching the rules, but there will also be the possibility for the driver to acknowledge the driving of the vehicle at the time of the infringement. The rules shall enter into force on 1 July 2020, i.e.: Very soon. Until 1 October, vehicles that are photographed and do not comply with the environmental zone requirements will be notified in their e-Boks. The message will indicate that their vehicle has been photographed in an environmental zone and that the vehicle does not comply with the environmental zone rules. From 1 October, the Danish EPA will issue these administrative fines of DKK 12,500, respectively. to the owner or 5,000 kroner. to the driver of trucks and buses. For vans, a fine of DKK 1,500 is proposed. However, the police will be able to enforce the rules already per year. 1 July, when they enter into force. I think it has been a good debate today, and there were also various written questions that were raised already in the debate, and I would, of course, like to respond to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424161034	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424161040	I shall be very brief, and I have full respect for it if the Minister asks for a written question. But this is something that I have been reminded of when it comes to using particulate filters, namely that it is dissuaded by producers, among other things. by Scania and Volvo, and then this thing about Codan going in and saying that insurance doesn't cover when such a filter is retrofitted. And that is what we are actually asking for here, which, of course, puts them as companies in a terrible dilemma and a terrible situation. Has the Minister or Ministry been made aware of this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20200424161116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424161118	I shall not be able to answer whether the Ministry has been made aware of this. This is not one of the challenges the industry has approached me with. It has been the question of these Euro V trucks that got caught up in relation to a date rule and where we have said that we are listening to that. Conversely, it is also very important for the government that we ensure clean air and that we take new steps to combat air pollution. So that is what has been the purpose, on the one hand, to manage better enforcement of the environmental zones, to listen to that criticism, but, on the other hand, to ensure that we move forward in order to ensure a cleaner air for all Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424161154	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424161155	Thank you very much for your answer and I will go back to those who have pointed to this problem with me and my party and ask them to make representations to the Ministry so that we can clarify these matters a little more thoroughly. So thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424161209	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424161210	We'd be happy to answer it and, of course, look at it. What I can say is that if there are trucks or vans where it is not possible to install a particulate filter, there may be scope for exemption. So there may well be something technical about some types of cars or buses that can make it simply impossible to physically do so or that there are no particulate filters, which has been taken into account. Whether the second problem has also been looked at, we would be happy to look at it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424161241	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200424161304	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 28 April 2020 at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
