ParlaMint-DK_20200128130014	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Sikandar Siddique (ALT) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 79 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on requirements for organic farming and untouched forest on the grounds of the people's church). Jens Roh (RV), Lars Aslan Rasmussen (S), Jan E. Jørgensen (V), Morten Messerschmidt (DF), Halime Oguz (SF), Søren Søndergaard (EL), Katarina Ammitzbøll (KF), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) and Peter Seier Christensen (NB): Hasteforskning nr. F 37 (What can the Government say about the EU's forthcoming 7-year budget (EU Multiannual Financial Framework 2021-2027), the negotiations on this and the government's priorities and the emphasis on these priorities?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter stating that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 21 January 2020, it was decided that the management of the business of the Ministry of Finance from 21 January until 3 February 2020 will be entrusted to tax minister Morten Bødskov. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 21 January 2020 provides that from 21 January 2020 until 3 February 2020, the management of the business of the Ministry of Finance will be entrusted to the tax minister Morten Bødskov. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Mette Frederiksen
ParlaMint-DK_20200128130105	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128130155	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 53 by Birgitte Vind (S), Stinus Lindgreen (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF), Peder Hvelplund (EL) and Susanne Zimmer (ALT), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 84 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, ALT and LA), against 21 (DF, KF and NB), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 53 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 52 of Liselott Blixt (DF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128130303	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128130313	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 106 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128130338	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128130354	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 13 (DF and NB), against 93 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and LA), abstentions 0. That is why the motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128130418	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128130433	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 46 (V, DF, KF and LA), against 59 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT and NB), abstentions 0. That is why the motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128130505	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. We will just give you a few minutes so that those who want it can leave the Chamber. We will continue with another treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128130606	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128130614	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, agreed by the committee that the draft law should be divided into three legislative proposals? The division of the bill into three legislative proposals has been adopted. The bill referred to in A will then be put to the vote [Proposal for a law amending the Income Tax Act and the Death Tax Act]: Request for a vote on Amendment No. 2-4 member of the Committee? They are adopted. It has been proposed that Bill No. L 91 A and No L 91 B [Proposal for a law amending the law on equations (Taxation of the free car for the recalculation of registration tax value] shall be referred back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I suggest that Bill No. L 91 C [Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Taxation of Persons (Reduction of the Bottom Tax)] goes directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128130659	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 30 January 2020. I shall see if we are ready technically with the rapporteurs. I think we can start with the explanatory statement. Sir. Peter Skaarup for the explanatory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128130735	Yesterday, January 27, it was Auschwitz Day, the official memorial day for the victims of the Holocaust and Nazi crimes against the Jewish people. It is every year on 27 January, but this year it is 75 years since Auschwitz was liberated and longer ago it is actually not. Nevertheless, we are experiencing anti-Semitism, also an increase in anti-Semitism in Denmark. We must and must respond to this, and that is why we must now debate this question. The Danish People's Party took the initiative here last year, and today we can hold the debate, because we must make an extra effort to ensure that Danish Jews can again live in safety and security in Denmark. Anti-Semitism is seen on both the extreme left and the right, and in November last year, in connection with the anniversary of the crystal night, Danish Jews experienced anti-Semitism flared up when a Jewish burial ground in Randers was desecrated followed by Jew stars attached to the mailboxes of Danish Jews by Danish neo-Nazis, apparently. This is totally unacceptable, and fortunately, I hope, we can quickly agree on this in the Danish Parliament today. But we must also dare to call a spade a spade and talk openly about the growing anti-Semitism in Denmark coming mainly from Muslim immigrant communities. I am glad that the Prime Minister has acknowledged and dares to speak plainly, because you cannot solve the problems if you dare not speak openly about them. The Prime Minister said: "There is an ugly anti-Semitism in Denmark today that was not there earlier. Because of immigration. ▪ That's what she said to Politiken on January 20th. I would like to say to the Prime Minister: thank you for your honest words. They give us in the Danish People's Party hope that effective action will now finally be taken against the Jewish hatred that is cultivated in certain Muslim environments in Denmark. I look forward to a very good debate today, and I hope we can reach a conclusion that includes the real problems and points to concrete solutions to stem anti-Semitism in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128131026	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup for the explanatory statement. Then we move on to the answer, and that is the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128131036	Thank you for the floor. It is frightening to see and to see that anti-Semitism still lives in Denmark. We must never accept extremist environments spreading hatred against minorities and trying to challenge our fundamental democratic values, our common freedom and the security of all of us. In these years, unfortunately, we see signs of an increase in anti-Semitism, which applies globally, including in Europe and in Denmark. In recent years alone, there have been several examples of anti-Semitic attacks resulting in deaths, among others. France, Germany and the United States. In Denmark anti-Semitism has shown its ugly face most prominently with the terrorist attack on the Jewish synagogue in Copenhagen back in 2015, most recently we saw examples of anti-Semitism in Denmark with the vandalism against the Jewish burial sites in Randers and a number of other anti-Semitic events on the anniversary of the crystal night on 9 November last year. In a report from 2018, the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights asked the Jewish minorities in a number of different European countries about their experiences with anti-Semitism. Denmark is generally better than the other countries in the survey, but also in Denmark it perceives 85%. by Danish Jews that anti-Semitism has been increasing over the last 5 years. The Jewish community is fully and completely part of Danish society, and the government is very concerned that we are on guard about the Jewish community and provide the protection that is unfortunately needed. We will, and we must continue to do so. The relevant authorities are today working closely with the Jewish Society to safeguard the safety of the Jewish minority in Denmark. The Jewish Society in Denmark receives an unbound grant from the Finance Act, which includes: used for the maintenance and operation of a number of security measures, including the Jewish Society's own guard. In addition, regular work is being done to ensure physical safety at the Jewish institutions. One of the main elements in this context is the guarding of Jewish locations. Following the terrorist attack in 2015, the police have been on guard at Jewish buildings and institutions in Copenhagen, and from spring 2017, the police were replaced by the defense, which has since then provided a great help in guarding several locations under police leadership. As Minister of Justice, I am both proud and happy that our people in green and blue can continue the good cooperation in this area, so that we can continuously ensure a secure environment for the Jews' everyday lives here in Denmark. Unfortunately, as has been said, anti-Semitism has increased in recent years. It is therefore the government's assessment that we need to make further efforts now to prevent anti-Semitism from taking root and spreading in Denmark. The government has therefore started work on drawing up a national action plan against anti-Semitism. The action plan will be drawn up in cooperation with the Jewish Society. This will be a broad action plan with a broad approach to combating anti-Semitism, a plan that involves action in a number of different areas of life. The overall aim of the action plan is to strengthen the resilience of the general public to the rise in anti-Semitism. Today the Holocaust lies many years back, and the last survivors are about to be gone. It is therefore important that we make an extra effort to remember history so that it will never happen again. An essential element of the work on the action plan will therefore be to ensure information about Jewish life, about the holocaust widely in the Danish population and in schools. Because through information, knowledge and mutual respect, we can best prevent and counteract prejudice and hatred in the population. It is obvious that there is also a need for special attention to those environments where anti-Semitism is particularly prevalent in the extreme right, in parts of the immigrant environment, and in parts of the left. We must not be afraid of touch. Anti-Semitism has different faces, and we therefore need to start by defining what anti-Semitism is. It is not about imposing new restrictions on what you are allowed to say in public space. It is a question of creating a common understanding of the problem and of the various ways in which anti-Semitism is expressed, so that we can take action with targeted efforts. The story of the rescue of the Danish Jews during World War II is strong in the Danish storytelling and self-understanding. We must not forget that story, but we must also live up to it. Combating anti-Semitism is an important priority for me and for the entire government, which is why I have looked forward to today's debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128131610	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. It is the case that there is now an opportunity to ask a question for the rapporteurs who so wish. That's what Mr. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128131620	[Sound emission]... President I think we have sound problems. Now we're ready. Here you go). Thank you to the Minister of Justice. I would like to take this opportunity to commend the Minister of Justice. When the Jewish community was subjected to this vandalism at the anniversary of the crystal night, the alternative was, as some of the first, if not the first, to say that we want to Nazi crisis preparedness, in other words, an action plan, a national action plan. The minister immediately signed and said: We are already in contact with the Jewish Society, and we must make an action plan. Following on from that, I would like to know whether we in the other parties will be involved in that work. I have here an anti-racist action plan, a proposal for such a national action plan, and we would very much like to be involved in drawing up such a plan of action. So I want to know if the Minister is planning to invite us in the other parties to draw up one of these.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128131727	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128131728	First of all, I would like to thank you for your kind remarks. After all, the action plan that we need to draw up is primarily addressed in cooperation with not least the Jewish Society, but also other stakeholders. I think it would be natural that we should also have a dialogue on this between the parties of the Folketing. I do not know how to put it right now, but my impression is that the desire for that action plan and given the content when it is available will have broad, broad support in the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128131758	Then it's Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128131800	[Sound emission]... I would also like to commend the government for coming up with an action plan. That was actually some of the things I was out to say we needed after the attack on the Krudtønde in 2015 so much praise for it. I have, probably like many others in this Chamber, read some of the articles that Berlingske has had about the challenges of Jewish families of different kinds. And I'm left with the feeling that when you're the victim of this type of abuse or bullying, or whatever it may be, it can be a little difficult to find your way in the justice system, that is, in terms of how to get help. So how does the minister feel about us setting up a hotline for victims of that kind of hate crime, so that somebody can sort of take them by hand and guide them all the way through the justice system? Because I think that some of them feel very left on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128131900	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128131901	I think the questioner is quite right about that. After all, hate crimes are not only related to the Jews, but also to sexual minorities etc., in fact that is how our feeling is also associated with a relatively large amount of darkness, which we can only be informed if we ensure that it is easy to approach, and if we also ensure that there is an understanding in the police of how to receive such reviews and enquiries. So I fully agree that it is absolutely appropriate to ensure that those who may be subjected to hate crimes appear.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128131942	It's Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128131944	Thank you for that, and also thank you to the Minister for starting work on a plan of action. Now, of course, we are in a situation where we have to negotiate on the finances and resources of the police in a moment. There I just want to hear: what is the Minister's position on ensuring that more of the police's resources are used to combat hate crimes? And then I would just like to use the last 30 seconds to say that anti-Semitism certainly does not exist on my part of the left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128132015	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128132017	Now you have to be careful what you say because we have a closed circle of negotiations from which you cannot refer, including who has brought out which themes on the table, but you are all sitting there and you are not doing so in the Enhedslisten, so now you can get an insight into how the negotiations are going on. But so, it is a theme that has already been put on the table. So this is a subject that we will certainly have to deal with in the negotiations on the new conciliation for the police and the prosecution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128132045	It is the case that in the first place only the rapporteurs here can ask questions. Then we thank the Minister and start the debate. No, Peter Skaarup has asked for the floor a little late.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128132104	[Sound emission]... President Peter Skaarup, we need to get the sound on. There you go. Here you go. Thank you to the Minister for Justice for the opening of the government to the debate here. We in the Danish People's Party, as in other parties, think it is good that there is now an action plan as a result of everything that has happened in relation to anti-Semitism, so that we can fight it in the best possible way. When you look at what is on Danish soil from research in this area, so to find out where the threat comes from, it is actually quite limited what is of research. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Justice if there will be research on this action plan, because it might be part of it, in order to identify where this threat actually comes from, and how it can be that we suddenly see this flare of anti-Semitism in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128132214	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128132216	Yeah, I think it's a good idea to come along and try to uncover under some relationship. Since I now have 56 seconds left, I would like to take this opportunity to say that this is the fourth time that one of you is starting to thank me, and the fourth time that the sound doesn't work. It's starting to look like a...
ParlaMint-DK_20200128132236	This is a clear strategy on our part. We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. Then we begin the negotiations, and here we start with the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128132253	Thank you for that and I hope that today we in the Danish Parliament will have a good debate on anti-Semitism. From the Danish People's Party we have raised this question to discuss what Danish society is doing against anti-Semitism, and it is of course because it cannot be right that Jews cannot live in peace, in security and in security in our society. It cannot be right that Jews, Danish Jews, cannot travel safely everywhere in Denmark, and that they must live with constant police guarding of their synagogue, schools and institutions. Unfortunately, this is an ugly trend towards an increase in anti-Semitism that we see around Europe, and it has happened as we have seen an increase in immigration into Europe, especially from the Middle East. Although we see anti-Semitism both on the extreme left and on the extreme right, the threat, as we see in the Danish People's Party, comes mainly from certain Muslim immigrant communities based on, for example, mosques in Denmark. Here, Jewish hatred is a maintained thing as part of the identity that comes into the mosque, often also carried by the Middle East conflict, where Israel in the mosques is proclaimed as the great bad wolf, and we think this is quite unreasonable. For the Jewish community in Denmark in particular is an excellent example of successful integration, and that story can be told very closely, namely at the Danish Jewish Museum in Copenhagen, which is not just a holocaust museum, but a museum that conveys the history of the successful integration of the Jews into Danish society. Since the attack on the Krudtønde and subsequently on the synagogue in Krystalgade in 2015, when two people were unfortunately shot and killed, the synagogue and the museum have been under constant police guard, and it is very sad that it should be so in Denmark, and at the same time it is a very visible sign of how serious the threat should be perceived. The history of the Jews in Denmark goes back 400 years. Many came here as refugees from Eastern Europe in particular, but eventually became a very integral part of Danish society. But the Jewish community is actually under real pressure, and this is due, as I said, specifically to immigration from the Middle East. We can here look over to Sweden with some horror. There the Swedish TV 4 has just had a broadcast showing that nine out of ten Jews in Sweden feel insecure, and many Jews simply do not feel safe in Europe, and therefore many choose to leave Israel or the United States. In 2015 alone, 10,000 Jews from Western Europe emigrated to Israel, and this was the highest number at that time since Israel's establishment in 1948. It is clear that Danish Jews, like other social groups, must be able to tolerate a certain amount of satire and criticism, and in this respect we should not compromise freedom of expression. But it is the right way to go for the Danish Parliament to take action against the harassment and that is what I would call the "Jewish society" we have seen in recent years. Jews must not be persecuted because they are Jews, and we must do everything we can to correct the situation of the Danish Jews. This is where we propose compulsory education in schools, which include: include knowledge of the holocaust and the persecution of the Jews. We are also suggesting that, in relation to extreme mosques such as the one we are discussing, we should do something about it. The Grimhøjmoskeen and towards hate preachers who call for abuse and killing are extremely focused, and we also propose that more control be exercised over Muslim free schools, which potentially pose a particular risk, because they learn the right lessons, and that is the wrong lesson if we want to protect the Jewish community in Denmark. On the basis of all this, on behalf of the Social Democrats, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the SF, the Liberal Alliance, the New Civil, Conservative, Enhedslisten, Radical and the Alternative, I am going to make the following proposals for adoption, and it is actually all parties in the Danish Parliament, so it is very positive: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament strongly condemns the hateful incidents of harassment and vandalism directed at Danish Jews, as we witnessed on the anniversary of the Crystal Night in November 2019. The Folketing will not accept that Jews cannot live freely in Denmark. Unfortunately, a special security effort is needed today in relation to Danish Jews and Jewish institutions. The Folketing urges the government to continue to guard the Jewish community and provide the protection that is needed. The Folketing condemns anti-Semitism in every form and has noted with concern that not only in neo-Nazi but also in Islamist circles there is a growing anti-Semitism. Therefore, the government is required to combat anti-Semitism in Denmark with all democratic means, including education in folk and free schools. The Danish Parliament notes that the government has launched a work on a national anti-Semitism action plan aimed at strengthening the public's knowledge and awareness of the increasing anti-Semitism. V 54 (reprinted)
ParlaMint-DK_20200128132925	The proposal for adoption will be included in the further debate. First of all, there are a few brief comments. The first one is from Mrs. Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128132931	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup to call this important debate. Thanks also to the Danish People's Party for recognising that there is a lack of education in primary school. My question to Mr. Peter Skaarup is going on whether Mr. Peter Skaarup has no reason to believe that the vandalism committed in Jewish burial sites around 9 November 2019 was committed by immigrants or Muslims.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128132959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128133001	No, I have no reason to believe that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128133003	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128133005	Then I just find it interesting that sir... Peter Skaarup nevertheless attaches such importance to the fact that anti-Semitism should have come in connection with immigration when we have seen that the last attack that has taken place has actually come from somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128133019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128133021	What we need to be aware of here is that anti-Semitism has unfortunately come over time and that the time period fits very well with the immigration we have received to Denmark over recent decades. We must also recognise, when we look at what environments are provoking anti-Semitism, in other words hate speech against Jews, that it comes mainly from mosques and hate preachers who have to do with Islam. You like it or not, but it is my clear conviction, when I follow what is going on in this area, that it is unfortunately something that comes from Muslim environments in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128133104	Then it's Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128133106	Thank you to the rapporteur. Following on from what the rapporteur on the Enhedslisten asks, I would like to ask a question. Now the Danish People's Party mentions three initiatives aimed at Muslim free schools and immigrant environments. I just do not hear the rapporteur making any initiatives aimed at the extreme right. That is why I would like to ask: does the Danish People's Party have any proposals and initiatives in the fight against anti-Semitism on the right? I did not hear the rapporteur say a word about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128133142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128133144	I think it is very, very important that, from early times, when you grow up in Denmark, you are inoculated, that we give the right to freedom of expression and freedom of belief when you are in Denmark. We must make a special effort, when this is now needed, in relation to anti-Semitism in Denmark. So when we write in the proposal for adoption that we are making today, together with all parties in the Folketing, that an important part of it is that you put into schools and free schools, it is not only about Muslims who go to free schools. It is, of course, just as much a matter of some people who may have to come out of one, let us say neo-Nazi environment. With this kind of education, we can hope that we will be vaccinated against going out in these extreme forms, as we are currently seeing, with regard to anti-Semitism. It goes all the way around. Because it doesn't really matter who's behind it. What is crucial is that we do not put up with anti-Semitism, and I think we agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128133246	Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128133247	Then I look forward to receiving the support of the Danish People's Party when we put forward such a proposal in the Danish Parliament, because it is part of our action plan, that is, our anti-racist action plan. The rapporteur says that it is the rapporteur's view that the rise in anti-Semitism, among other things. come from mosques and imams who are hateful in their speech to Jews. We have also heard a very, very demonizing tone in the public debate and from parts of the Folketing against Muslim citizens. If that logic were to be followed, would it help to create a discriminatory mood against Danish Muslims, in other words, if the logic of the rapporteur were to be followed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128133333	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128133335	When I follow what is going on with anti-Semitism and Jewish persecutions around the world, my clear impression is that it is borne by an hatred of Jews, hatred of Israel, among others. The Middle East conflict, where it is believed that Israel has somehow done wrong, and there are certainly examples of this. But that doesn't change the fact that our clear task in the Danish Parliament, which wants to protect some people who are Jews, is to make an action plan. We can take the other debates another time, but today it is about Jews.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128133414	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128133416	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to come to the assistance of the rapporteur with some facts in the debate. It is true that we do not have much knowledge of where anti-Semitism comes from in Denmark, but it does exist in other countries. When we look at the studies made by Sweden, Germany, Britain and France, it turns out that Muslims are behind the vast majority of the anti-Semitic events that Jews have been subjected to. In Sweden it is even this way and Sweden is a country that has taken indecently many Muslim migrants that more than half of the events are committed by Muslims or people with Muslim backgrounds. It is only in Germany of the four countries that it is right-wing who have the second most of these incidents on their consciences. The second most are committed by the left. So when we talk about this, it is true that there are not very much facts in the Danish debate. We should have that, but what we see in our neighbouring countries says quite clearly that most of the problems come from Muslims and then from left-wing, except Germany, where it comes from right-wing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128133524	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128133525	I thank you for your help and I can agree entirely with you. This is exactly the same experience I have, as Mrs Pernille Vermund has here: that in Sweden it is far worse, but that does not excuse what is happening in Denmark against Jewish society and anti-Semitism. We must also recognise that the terrorism we see around us, which we have fortunately not received so much from Denmark, is also directed against Jews. Most recently, we have seen the Islamic State say that now we want to direct our guard against Israel, because it is the evilst evil. Much of this has just been borne by the conflict in the Middle East and Israel. There we should stand together to keep these things separate and just look at one thing: Will we protect Jews in Denmark? Yeah, we will, so we're in the Folketing together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128133623	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Peter Skaarup, as there are no more brief remarks. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128133635	Thank you. Thanks to the Danish People's Party for calling this inquiry debate, which, it has to be said, is a very topical one, unfortunately updated by the vandalism on tombstone on the anniversary of the crystal night. And yesterday we had another anniversary, the memorial of the terrible exterminations of Jews during World War II. Unfortunately, anti-Semitism is a growing monster in Europe and in Denmark and, as I have just mentioned, we have seen some current events that make it very relevant that we should take action against anti-Semitism. There is a need for active protection of our Jewish institutions, not only on the basis of what we saw on the crystal night, but also, unfortunately, on the basis of what we saw with the terrorist attack back in 2015, when a terrorist killed two people.One of them was the guard Dan Uzan at the synagogue. These are examples which are a disgrace to our country, and examples which show that there is a real danger to the Jews living in Denmark. Therefore, there is reason to have the deepest contempt for those who deny history, those who breathe into the fire, those who consciously or unconsciously incite insults and humiliation of Danish Jews. And there is every reason to take the situation seriously. Right-wing forces are gaining ground in Europe, growing stronger in our brother country Sweden, crossing the border, so that Danish boys and girls, men and women are also lured into by the fascination of the community, which is based on hatred and contempt for the Jews, and the struggle to deny an indispensable historical fact, the extermination of the Jews, which had an extent that for most people surpasses our comprehension. It is images and stories that are so amazing that we are disgusted by it and have a nauseous feeling in the whole body just at the thought of the many fates that perished under unimaginable horrors. The contempt for Danish Jews is unfortunately also pronounced in certain Islamist circles in Denmark, where racism and hatred thrive, where anti-democratic forces speak hatred and are fed by contempt, and where there is incitement to what is even worse. And it is part of the same swamp of terror glorification driven by radicalisation. Anti-Semitism is also seen on the extreme left, where it mixes with a criticism of the conflict between Israel and Palestine, but where the criticism incites Jewish hatred and contributes to anti-Semitism. Therefore, we need to declare our allegiance to our Danish Jews again. We will not accept displeasing, hateful speech and direct violence against Danish Jews, towards our Danish brothers and sisters. That is why we need to put in place an action plan that can help create knowledge and awareness and maintain education in history and thus also create a resilience, a democratic consciousness, not least in our Danish youth, which must be a protection against those who try to convince them to the contrary by means of sluggish speech. I am therefore also pleased that the whole parliament could support a joint proposal for adoption to mark this important question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134035	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt has asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134042	I think there are many of us who are very pleased with the re-orientation which the Social Democrats have also introduced in this area, and, in particular, the Prime Minister, I think, has made some very fine observations about the fate of the Jewish people and, indeed, the whole political situation in the Middle East, which was not expected under previous socialist leaders. Well, I remember that among other things. Mogens Lykketoft was a warm advocate at the time as Foreign Minister for the inclusion of Hamas in the peace negotiations. And it can be said that it is water on the mill of Islamism and anti-Semitism that a Danish Foreign Minister, a senior social democrat, in this way legitimises a movement like Hamas, and that is why it would be nice to hear from the rapporteur himself, now that the Social Democrats are in this turnaround, that it is not the
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134140	So what we are talking about here is anti-Semitism, both in Denmark and, I admit, in the world too. I also tried to be very precise, in relation to the fact that some people are using the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and everything we see in the Middle East to soothe it together with pronounced anti-Semitism. I am confident that foreign policy will be left to the Foreign Minister, but there should be no doubt that our Prime Minister has said what our Minister of Justice has said, and now I have also tried to make it as clear as I can that this is a beast, an evil that is gaining ground and that we are firmly opposed to. We will do what we can to ensure that Danish Jews do not also feel in a situation where they have to emigrate from Denmark, which we unfortunately see in many European countries, and which is of course a very serious situation, where as a Jew one feels a need to move from the country in which one was born and raised. I think that is absolutely a disgrace.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134242	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134244	Well, I'm really glad. And, of course, I understand that the rapporteur has no mandate to renounce a former President and Foreign Minister. I understand that, but I still feel a certain degree of agreement, because when Mr. Mogens Lykketoft stands around and speaks for the Palestinian associations and at the same time is a strong advocate for Hamas to come in and negotiate peace, and what do I know about an association that is today on the EU's terrorist list? It is not exactly something that fights anti-Semitic tendencies in society. On the contrary, it is something that legitimises the insane and darkened thoughts that we are talking about here. I agree with the rapporteur on this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134321	At any rate, I believe that the Israeli-Palestine conflict must be kept very separate from this with anti-Semitism, and there are some who are unable to do so. In other words, we can take a critical view of the actions taken by the State of Israel without being anti-Semitic. But there are too many people who do not know how to pay, and here I am not talking about Mogens Lykketoft, and that is why I think it is important to bring out the separation which, if I remember correctly, Mr President. Peter Skaarup was also mentioned in his speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134357	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134400	Does the rapporteur think that it is an expression of anti-Semitism when, on the one hand, Danish Jews who have no responsibility for the conflict in the Middle East are held responsible for what is going on and, on the other hand, the Jews are denied the right to their own country?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134417	In any case, I believe that if we are not very sharp in the balance that I was just trying to address, it may well be an expression of anti-Semitism. On the other hand, it is still legal to be critical of the conflict, even without having to be shot in the shoes, that one is anti-Semite. So I think we should all be very precise about how we view this. But it is quite clear that there are people who do not know how to deal with that balance. This is one of the things that can contribute to the birth and feeding of this anti-Semitism that we need to overcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134455	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134457	So let me try to ask a little more clearly in the hope of a slightly clearer answer: if you do not want to give the Jews the right to have their own country, and if you fight the Jews' right to have their own country in word or action, is that an expression of anti-Semitic behaviour, or is it not?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134521	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134523	Well, with all due respect to the questioner, I actually believe that Mrs Pernille Vermund is moving into mixing those things up. In fact, I do not sense a perfectly clear question, but more such a fish after that, if one expresses criticism of the relationship between Israel and Palestine, one is also anti-Semite. It may take a little longer conversation than we can get in this conversation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134549	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134550	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for that excellent speech. I would like to ask a little more specifically what we are doing now. Because we know that hate crime is being committed against Jews and other minorities in Denmark. We saw it around 9 November, and in 2018 26 hate crimes were actually committed by the police. So I really just want to know how we're gonna deal with this in concrete terms. In the Enhedslisten we have proposed a special unit of the police to take care of hate crimes, but it might be that the Social Democracy also had some good commandments.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134631	This is gonna be a little processy, I'm sorry, but part of this is just making an action plan that has to come up with very concrete offers. One of the things I imagine is that in addition to what we have been talking about supporting education in schools around the historical fact, but also in what anti-Semitism is. There is clearly a need for it is also something that is being talked about that you can look at how to register, for example. hate crimes in different categories. Some of these things are some of the things that, as the Minister of Justice also mentioned, come on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134704	Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134706	I fully agree with Mr. Jeppe Bruus in this with registrations, because today the police are registering through such a search system key, I think it's called, but maybe we should give the possibility that, as a victim, when you report, you can help define: Have I been subjected to a hate crime? Because you are the one who, as a victim, has been present in the situation and has heard what insults have been screamed at you, for example. has been attacked. So perhaps that is where we need to find a balance, that is to say that the police themselves, of course, are responsible for part of the registration, but also that the victim is involved in that process.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134741	I think that sounds like an exciting discussion we can have together. I cannot see the scope of it here on a stand-by basis, i.e. what you are able to do as a victim in relation to registration into a search engine etc. But it is obvious that we are discussing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134759	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134801	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech, which I thought was a good one. As I mentioned just now in the debate, we also found in the Danish People's Party that it was positive to see the Prime Minister's interview in Politiken, among other things. It appeared: There is an ugly anti-Semitism in Denmark today that was not there earlier. Because of immigration. ▪ I'd like to know if Mr. Jeppe Bruus can elaborate on what is actually the reason why the Socialists have reached that conclusion now. For that is a new conclusion to what has been seen in the past by the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134846	Ahh, I wouldn't say that it was such a bomb that jumped, if I'm going to use that expression without comparisons, by the way. In other words, it is not a secret that we look very critically at the failed immigration and integration policy that has been in this country for too many years and has a major impact on cohesion. We really want a coherent society in which we also have the opportunity to integrate, because there is indeed an opportunity for it. The immigration and integration policy that has failed has some very negative consequences, and this is one of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134922	Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128134926	I would say that we are in complete agreement and that this is one of the things the Danish People's Party has been working for for many years. And welcome to the club for the Social Democrats. We appreciate that. I would like to ask if, if we now agree on this, we can also agree on the fact that we are so strongly opposed to anti-Semitism that if we see cases of anti-Semitism, it would also be obvious to look at the penalties for such behaviour, which is quite stigmatising to a particular population group. Will Mr. Jeppe Bruus be ready for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128135003	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128135004	Yeah, I certainly wouldn't deny that. And I would also like to add to that some of the talk we have about where the borders are going that I also think it is healthy that we on the part of Parliament are very precise in a discussion about these so indirect, inciting statements a la: I am not anti-Semite, but I can nevertheless make some things. So, I think it's healthy for us to have this conversation together and to hold on to the fact that the conjuring up of some pictures can help some other groups to take it even further. And that's why it's good that we have a joint conversation about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128135041	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Bruus. There are no more brief comments, and we move on to Mrs Inger Løjberg, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128135053	Thank you for the floor and many thanks to the Danish People's Party for raising this very, very important debate on what the government will do to stem anti-Semitism in Denmark. We have recently again, it can be said, that some will the Jews in Denmark hurt. We know that there are fanatical people, also in Denmark, who despise the Jews and question their right to live at all. Anti-Semitism is a democratic threat against which we must defend ourselves, and anti-Semitism must not be allowed in our society. It does not matter where it comes from, whether it is from the extreme left, whether it is from the extreme right, or whether it is from Muslims. It is fundamental for the Left that we stand guard over freedoms, including, of course, freedom of religion, even when it is difficult. Because our freedoms are under pressure, both from the outside and from the inside, and that is precisely why the question debate here today is so necessary. It is about anti-Semitism and the pressure we are experiencing from the inside. But we are also standing here on a day when external pressure has begun when it comes to another right of freedom, namely freedom of expression, and it is therefore absolutely essential to establish that Denmark is built on a foundation of freedom rights that generations before us have laid the foundations for. It is the freedom to believe in exactly the god you want to worship your religion without having to fear for your life. We have gender equality, so girls and boys and women and men are equally worthless, and then we have freedom of expression. You can say and write what you think you can draw what you can, and if you're good enough, you can also get it printed in the paper. Neither foreign states nor religious fanatics should change that. We must stand firm on this together, even when we are under pressure. And our freedoms are under pressure. The very foundation of the free society on which Denmark is founded is under pressure, but it must never break ever. Today, after all, it is a question debate which is narrowly concerned with anti-Semitism, and there is a very good reason for this. The Jewish community has both conscientiously and dedicatedly adapted to conditions in Denmark. They have always exercised their faith in such a way that they have neither ordered anyone else to live in the same way nor demanded special consideration, which stands in stark contrast to how some, for example, have. Muslim environments in Denmark have acted. We have recently witnessed alarming incidents of anti-Semitism in Denmark. We saw that, for example. with the vandalism that has already been mentioned against the Jewish cemetery in Randers; with the stickers that have been put on mailboxes by families in Silkeborg; but indeed also with Jewish children who are being persecuted in school • persecuted by Muslim boys. Specifically, Rebecca stood up very bravely and told about it in Berlingske on 23 November. It takes deep respect for a young girl like her to do it. For each of the cases that we see and which we hear about in the media, unfortunately, it is also the case that much more are taking place without ever having to hear about them. They do not come to the attention of the public, nor of the media. The many are a little smaller and perhaps not in their nature violent episodes and, unfortunately, they are increasing. This leads to an atmosphere in which Jews no longer feel secure in our society and, in the utmost consequence, may even doubt their existence and future in Denmark. These attacks, small and large, are attacks on Jews, but their consequences and their consequences are therefore also an attack on all of us in the way we live our lives, on our values, our tolerance, our diversity and having a community. It is a battle that must be fought both in the Folketing, but indeed also in civil society, in the municipalities, in the schools, in the clubs where people go. We have an obligation to make an effort. That is what our conscience offers us. The recent events in the form of violence and vandalism must therefore also necessarily lead to cash answers on our part, and in the Left we see a very great need for the right of the Danish Jews to exercise their faith in safety, so that the Jews can feel both safe and welcome in Denmark. In the Left, therefore, we also support the proposal for adoption, which Mr. Peter Skaarup is behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128135641	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128135646	Thank you for a very fine speech, I think, which also linked today's debate in this Chamber to a topical debate outside the Chamber, namely on freedom of expression. But one of the things that seems to be always the underlying discussion when we have this debate on anti-Semitism is that there are some who really want it to look as if it is something that comes from certain political groups. I note, among other things, that the alternative has put forward a proposal specifically asking for a Nazi response, but not an Islamic response. So there are some who say that the thing about Muslim anti-Semitism is something we would like to demolish. Therefore, I would just like to ask Mrs Inger Løbberg quite openly: does Mrs Inger Løbberg agree that the last 30 years of immigration of mainly Muslims from the Middle East have unfortunately led to more anti-Semitism in Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128135736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128135739	Yes, I agree with Morten Messerschmidt on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128135741	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128135743	Thank you for that very clear answer, which also marks the personality of Mrs Inger Løjberg. Then I hope that she will give just as clear an answer to the next question: does she agree that an essential part of the anti-Semitism response is to get some of these Muslims out of Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128135754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128135756	I agree that, if it is to be set up, it must of course deal with all groups that must have anti-Semitic positions. Whether it comes from the left, whether it comes from the right, the outermost part of both wings, whether it comes from Muslims, is equally bad. We should not tolerate anti-Semitic attitudes, for example. violence in Denmark. We need to take good care of our Jews. They have always adapted beautifully in Denmark. We must respect that, and we must be careful.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128135839	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128135840	Thank you for the floor. It's a little in the wake of Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's question. It was a speech which I can largely only endorse. The only thing that struck me was that the rapporteur said that it does not matter where anti-Semitism comes from. It is quite true that it is equally bad, but politically it doesn't matter all the time that a very large part of it comes from Muslim migrants who have been brought here as part of a misguided immigration policy. That is why I would like to hear the rapporteur, who I suppose will answer what I hope she will say, whether the rapporteur does not agree that when the number of unintegrable Muslims in Denmark falls, it must also mean that anti-Semitism committed by unintegrable Muslims will fall.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128135929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128135931	I wish I had said that it is just as bad, no matter where it comes from, whether it is from the extreme left, the extreme right or from Muslim circles, because that must be what it is about today. It must be about putting our foot down and doing it together. There is something that suggests that we are actually doing this, and I think it is extremely positive that the Folketing, with the differences we now have, says here for once that we are going to go the limit and that we will stand together to look after the Jews in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128140004	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128140005	But I fully agree that it is just as bad where it comes from, but it does not matter where it comes from, because some of it is something that grows up among us; some of it is something that can be influenced by foreign policy. That is why it is different tools that need to be used depending on where it comes from. So does the rapporteur not recognise that if foreign policy is managed, it might have a positive effect on that part of anti-Semitism, and it is not the whole anti-Semitism which has been imported and which comes from the extreme Muslims?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128140039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128140040	Of course it is. But it must of course be about first of all that no matter what you believe in, you respect the fact that you now live in a country that is based and based on a foundation of freedoms, including freedom of religion, where you can live out your religion as you like. You just can't impose on others how to conform, you can't demand special consideration, and you shouldn't harass each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128140103	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128140106	Thank you to Mrs Inger Løjberg for a very, very good speech, and thank you for your support for the fact that we are taking a tough stand on anti-Semitism. I was particularly concerned with the remarks about civil society, for example. in the field of association, where efforts must be made to prevent us from seeing anti-Semitism. In this connection, I would like to ask Mrs Inger Løjberg about Nørrebro, because my impression is that in some places on Nørrebro there is a very, very widespread tolerance. Unfortunately, we have had a number of examples of this on our desk in the Folketing. And I would like to ask Mrs Inger Løbberg: how does the Left feel about this? What are we gonna do about it? Because this is an everyday situation that can be difficult to deal with for those who suffer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128140216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128140218	I simply have to say when Mr. Peter Skaarup mentions Nørrebro that my impression is to say that you are very tolerant of the people with whom you agree. It's not for me a very tolerant place. We have seen this repeatedly with Jews, as Mr. Peter Skaarup mentioned here; we have also seen it with right-wing politicians, among others. Yes, from New Citizens, and people who have been engaged there. In general, I believe that many people, including myself, have experienced intolerance at Nørrebro. Having said that, I think that we have an enormous obligation to take action there too. Now, of course, we seem to have to embark on an action plan, and I hope that it will be possible to include everything without prejudice. And then it's no use sitting around protecting your own and not looking beyond your own nose tip. So there I really hope we can put it all aside and say: we are now looking at this problem without prejudice, as obviously and quite clearly there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128140326	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128140329	But I would just like to ask whether the Left also agrees that we need more police to take action against those who are behind anti-Semitism, because it can be said that it can be very, very difficult to deal with those who suffer if it is not said seriously to those who are harassing this kind of harassment that you will not tolerate. What else is being done in relation to those places on Nørrebro where the long arm of the law must be so numerous to get there that it can be very, very difficult to work? Is this also part of the Left's thinking about the action plan to protect Jews in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128140410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128140414	I must honestly say that I do not think anything will come out of an action plan like this, without it also being linked to the forthcoming police negotiations. Well, these aren't just words; this is also action. Now I was at Nørrebro as recently as last week, and there I had to pay attention to it was the extreme left who thought it was a police force on Nørrebro. I don't see it that way. On the contrary, I take the view that the police must have the necessary resources, also to take action on Nørrebro in relation to the issues that are whether it is anti-Semitism or whether it is autonomous that sees the police as an occupying power.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128140451	Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go. No, he'll drop off, and we'll thank Mrs. Inger Løjberg. The next rapporteur is Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128140522	Thank you. Never again a crystal night; no thanks to anti-Semitism. Therefore, it was both cowardly and in every possible way terrible when last year, on the anniversary of the crystal night, targeted hate crimes were carried out against the Jewish minority in Denmark at Jewish burial sites in Randers. The signal was unmistakable, for the combination of both time and the sacred goal was in every way disgusting. That was unacceptable, and it is all anti-Semitism, regardless of the sender, because neither anti-Semitism nor other hate crimes belong in a democracy. Actually, it doesn't belong anywhere. It has been sad to experience the need for increased security measures and guarding in recent years, but the Jewish community must know that we will always be there for them, always, because in Denmark no minorities should be exposed, and everyone should be able to walk freely and be who they are. It's a free society. It's a democracy. That is why the Radical Left very much welcomes the fact that the government is engaged in a national action plan. This is a good initiative. And a definition of anti-Semitism is something that is also known from other European countries. At the same time, it is also important for us to focus on other forms of hate crime, hate crime, regardless of background, religion, sexuality, disability and other things, because freedoms apply to all of us. And when we see the records of the National Police, unfortunately, the number of hate crimes is not decreasing. Anti-Semitism must be combated with knowledge and by being aware of it. A national action plan against hate crimes, such as those that took place on the anniversary of the 2019 crystal night, should show the direction that hateful crimes meet with zero tolerance in a democratic society. What is important in this debate is solidarity, that together we actively say no and show zero tolerance. That is why I was a little disappointed that the Prime Minister so specifically identified increasing immigration as part of anti-Semitism, because the crucial thing is that we do not unavoidably create divisions and dig ditches on the wrong basis. It is, in fact, stronger and a strong signal to send out that today the entire Folketing is part of one and the same proposal for adoption. That's how an active rejection of hate crimes should be. Together we say no to anti-Semitism and hate crimes in Denmark. It is popular rule at its best: when the voice is strongest and the action is greatest.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128140830	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. First, it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128140833	After all, it is no secret that the Radical Left really won its victory through the ghettos of the country at the last parliamentary elections, and I believe that this has also been praised on social media and elsewhere. I guess the Ghetto are one of the places where Mr. Morten Østergaard is really held and understood. I would therefore like to ask what the rapporteur is really thinking about anti-Semitism in the ghettos. I can only by looking back at the recent history of the Radical Left, remember that Sherin Khankan as a member of the party believed that Hizb ut-Tahir fit well into Danish democracy, and I remember how Mona Sheikh, who was also a member of the party, said that Sharia was fully compatible with Danish values. That is why, now that we agree on the proposal for adoption tabled here by the Danish People's Party and thank you for it, I would just like to hear what is actually being done in the Radical Left to ensure that the positions of the new electoral segment that has been cultivated are not based on anti-Semitism?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128140933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128140934	I find it difficult to comment on who has previously been a member of the Radical Left, so I had to go through a long line, among other things. Some of those who sit and are members of various other parties in here too, so I do not want to be very clever about that. But I am delighted if more people have voted on the Radical Left. It is only positive that we have gone forward and have received twice as many mandates. I do not see that as a problem. But to ask whether this would lead to anti-Semitism, I think it is a strange basis to assume and a strange way to sow discord between communities, and I do not think that is in anyone's interest. This does not mean that we are really going to move forward with an action plan, which is what is urgently needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141013	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141015	That's not the question, sir. Kristian Hegaard. What this is about is that, when we hear and read in both international and national reports, there is a clear prevalence of anti-Semitism in Muslim groups, in relation to how anti-Semitism stands in the rest of society, and now we have a Radical Left, which has a specific strategy to build on the ghettoes, and we are not talking about rich men's ghettos, but Muslim ghettos, it is only relevant to hear what considerations are then made in the Radical Left to ensure that anti-Semitism is not done in Muslim circles salonfehig.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141049	Thank you for your interest in the Radical Left elections. We were therefore extremely pleased that we were carrying out twice as many mandates as we had before the elections. It must be because there has been a broad interest in Radical Left policy in all possible contexts. But the thing that then brings the question of anti-Semitism into it is simply to mix too many things together. But thank you for your interest in the Radical Left elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141115	Then I'll give Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, because he was the first to get in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141126	Thanks for that. I don't know why the technique is teasing. But thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard for an excellent rapporteur speech. I took note of the fact that the rapporteur was a little concerned about the Prime Minister, among others. had highlighted non-Western immigration as part of the cause of increasing anti-Semitism. And I feel so bad that I think it's equally bad, no matter where anti-Semitism comes from, but we should be able to talk about where it comes from. And there we know from studies from Sweden, from England, from Germany, from France that in all those countries more than half of the anti-Semitic hate crimes are committed by Muslims. And I just think we should be able to talk about that openly and without prejudice. And I really want to hear: does the rapporteur not also think that it is politically relevant to talk about where anti-Semitism comes from and to address the environments from which it comes? Or is it to be understood that we want to fight anti-Semitism, but that it must not be targeted, that we are fighting it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141221	I said very clearly that anti-Semitism is totally unacceptable, regardless of which sender it is, and whoever is behind hateful crimes, it must be combated by those who do so. So it is quite clear, and I think it is also in the proposal for adoption that it has not been so reduced to something specific. But what really annoyed me about what the Prime Minister said was that, like the Prime Minister, he made it a matter of immigration without mentioning, for example. the right-wing extremism, which is equally relevant. And the way in which it can be interpreted is that it creates division between groups, and it is not something that is beneficial to get rid of hate crimes that are absolutely crucial in a democratic society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141306	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141307	Yeah, but the Prime Minister doesn't cause division by saying things the way they are, it doesn't cause division. It creates discord to commit anti-Semitic hate crimes. And I just have to say that I have no need to defend extremely right-wing people. But when you look at studies in Sweden, Germany, France and England, you can see that Muslims commit five or ten times as many anti-Semitic hate crimes than the extreme right does. And I feel that it is not to point the finger at anyone, but let us just say it openly and honestly as it is, and proceed without prejudice. And perhaps I miss the fact that in the Radical Left we say just as openly and frankly: yes, there is a particular problem with Muslim environments, because we can look at the cold figures. And it is not divisive to mention it. It is an important part of finding solutions that we can also address the problems as they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141357	As I also mentioned in my speech, anti-Semitism is totally unacceptable, regardless of who is the sender, and we must of course go without prejudice to that. But the questioner did not refer to any Danish studies or anything like that. And there's just what we're saying: Well, let's not point the finger at someone or point someone out before we, like, investigate it thoroughly even in Denmark, and do it well. I think that's what's important.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141419	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141421	I have to admit that I, like Mr. Alex Vanopslagh is completely unaware of the need to criticise the Prime Minister, as well as the statements that have been made, for immigration to be a major cause of anti-Semitism, but also the need to talk about anything other than anti-Semitism in today's debate. That is also what I have seen after the tomb strikes in November on the crystal night, namely that the Radical Left and, incidentally, the alternative have had plenty of energy to talk about, that now we need a Nazi response, and now we need one and the other and the third, that is to say anything other than anything that fights anti-Semitism. Why is that? Now we have a debate on anti-Semitism, so why can we not just make it clear once and for all that we will not tolerate it, and now we are setting in motion an action plan to address the challenges we have in Danish society in relation to it? Sir. Alex Vanopslagh is quite right in saying that research from several different countries clearly says that it is really there, the problem is, in other words, in relation to immigration and Muslim groups in the countries concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141531-2	I think there will be an attempt to build a tiny conflict between us here, which there is no basis at all. After all, we are all part of the same proposal for adoption, and we are all very concerned about an active rejection of anti-Semitism. So I'm a little upset that this is the way to try to cultivate it. First of all, I think there is a good reason to commend the Prime Minister for the focus on anti-Semitism because of the events that are taking place. So it's first of all praise, but it's just annoying that this signal was sent, because it didn't have to be done, and we might have to look at it a little in Denmark first, before making resolute conclusions in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141611	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141613	I may not listen properly, but I hear the Radicals in the media, and here again and again today make it clear that it is quite awful to accuse immigration of having something to do with anti-Semitism. I also hear that the Radicals say in different contexts that we must fight it and that too, but now we are talking about anti-Semitism, so should we not concentrate on it? When the researchers who are looking at this analyse it, they talk about the fact that it has been investigated in Sweden, France, Germany and Britain, and here it is most often Muslims who are responsible for attacks against Jews.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141655	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141656	I think it is very clear from the proposal for adoption, which we are all part of, that unfortunately there are different senders of anti-Semitism, and that is quite unacceptable, regardless of who commits it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141711	Then it's Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141713	It is a bit the same, and it is actually a bit too bad that we have to have this debate. But I cannot deny the experience that Mr. Kristian Hegaard and Radical Left simply cannot get over their lips to say that yes, there are also Muslims who commit hate crimes that are anti-Semitic. And yes, it's a huge problem. That's why I just want to ask Mr. Kristian Hegaard: Recognizes Mr. Kristian Hegaard, that there are also Muslims, and that it is also a very large number, if you look at it in relation to the actions that we have seen here in Denmark, but also abroad, that have been committed by Muslims?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141802	I do not really understand the doubts that have been built up, because all of us who are sitting here are part of the same proposal for adoption. And it is very clear that there are different groups of people who unfortunately commit anti-Semitic acts, and we all take a strong stand against that, and so do I. I am glad to hear from my lips that, unfortunately, more people are committing anti-Semitic acts, but it is equally serious, regardless of who is committing them. It is deeply regrettable every time it is committed. That is what we are so steadfastly sending out a strong and strong signal against today. I think that is strong, because that is what makes us seriously oppose it, so that anti-Semitic actions should not be committed in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141843	Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141844	All right! I'd like to ask Mr. Kristian Hegaard: Are there Muslims who have committed anti-Semitic acts in Denmark? yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141853	Well, I guess there is. Well, that's what I keep saying, that's that it's all groups of people who do this. I do not understand why such artificial doubt is being built up that I should not have said so. That is very clear. So that is what the proposal for adoption says.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141908	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128141909	A few years ago, when a diversity festival was held at Nørrebro, the radical mayor said that the Jewish part of the participants should refrain from flagging with a Jewish day because, as the media say, the City of Copenhagen feared that it could come to clashes between the Jewish association and Muslim and left radical groups when it became known that the Israelis wanted to participate. So, one was afraid that there would be a conflict between left-wing and Muslims on the one hand and Jews, Israelis on the other. Does the rapporteur, who now shares the party with the former mayor, agree that this is a potential conflict "yes" or "no"?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142003	I do not know exactly what kind of considerations have been made in this matter, but it is clear that there should be no restrictions in the way that it can create conflict, that a flag should be set up. This is, of course, totally untenable.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142015	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142018	It's crazy how hard it is to get an answer to something that simple. If we now take the most glaring example of anti-Semitism in recent times in Denmark: the terrorist attack against the Jewish synagogue, Dan Uzan lost his life. A terrorist with Muslim background and Islamic occupation up in his head committed the terrorist attack. Is it anti-Semitism or is it not?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142048	Now, of course, we need to define anti-Semitism, and I very much welcome that. I do not want to sit here and make those definitions self-handedly, but I do distance myself from all anti-Semitism, and it annoys me that one is trying to make such an artificial framing that this should not be the case. Well, any doubts about that I would like to put aside completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142108	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142111	Allow me to turn the debate a little back to what it is really about, namely how we stop anti-Semitism in Denmark. I have a question for the Radical Left's legal rapporteur, who is concerned about what the police should do. The excellent, I think, joint proposals for adoption we have made say something about what we can do in primary school and what we can do in our educational institutions. I mean, and we in the Enhedslist also believe that the police should take this much more seriously. In 2018, 26 hate crimes were committed against Jews, 63 against Muslims. So we have a problem with hate crimes in Denmark. Will the Radical Left help to set aside money for the police to have more resources and tools to fight hate crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142159	Thank you very much for the question, whose message I share enormously. I have clearly stated that some of what is also important for the Radical Left in the context of the police negotiations that are now quietly pending is to step up efforts to combat hate crimes, because it is one of the most abominable and anti-democratic that is taking place.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142221	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142222	Thank you. I have only one small question to ask you, Mr President. Kristian Hegaard can tell me and the hall what information he may have about the vandalism that was committed in Jewish burial sites around 9 November 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142244	I do not think I have much information about who it is or how it is done. But there is much evidence that it is the right-wing extremists who are behind it, and I do not think it is something that has caused so much in today's debate. But that is not something I want to conclude, because it is the police who are investigating it, and I have full confidence in that being done in the way it should.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142309	Then it's mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142311	Thank you. I would like to continue a little in the thread that was started before. I have to say that I am somewhat puzzled when I hear the radical rapporteur here accusing our Prime Minister that it would be wrong or almost wrong to mention the immigrant environments and Muslims in the same sentence as anti-Semitism. Does the Radical Left believe that there is a challenge of anti-Semitism in certain Islamist environments, which we have also written in our joint motion for a resolution - yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142349	Yes, otherwise we would not have signed that proposal for adoption, so that is quite clear. What I just said was a little unmanageable on the part of the Prime Minister was that we did not talk any more about what is also happening among extreme right-wing extremists, in other words, it unfolded more widely. That was the idea I had ■ that I had seen it unfolded a little more, because anti-Semitism is quite serious and terrible, no matter who the sender is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142414	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142416	I think both the Prime Minister mentioned it, and I think our Minister for Justice mentioned it, and I certainly know that I myself mentioned it, namely both the extreme right, some Muslim environments and the extreme left. The study, which is also referred to, shows that the rise in anti-Semitism experienced by the Jews, among other things. come from immigrant environments with Muslim backgrounds. Can the Radical Left not take it at face value that the anti-Semitism that our Jewish brothers and sisters are experiencing also stems from that immigration, and that in some of these environments there is a flourishing of anti-Semitism, which of course we need to address if we are also to be able to combat it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142502	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142503	It is a bit funny: I have had a lot of questions in this debate that relate to one group, and it says a little bit about that there is such an interest in playing someone off against each other, and I think that is so extremely regrettable and something that does not promote the debate on this. That is why we have made this joint motion for a resolution in which we distance ourselves from it all. I think it's important that we do that together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142524	Then it's mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142525	Thank you. I am a little surprised that when it comes to anti-Semitism from the Islamists and now I say not the Muslims, but the Islamists' side. Would the rapporteur not agree with me that the two most spectacular judgments for anti-Semitism relate to two imams from two extreme mosques: from the Grimhøjmosque and from the Heimdalsgademosque? Haven't they been convicted of calling for the killing of Jews?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142604	I must be honest and say that I do not know the two judgments, but as it has been referred to, there is no doubt that what is at issue is very serious. And that is why I welcome the fact that all of us in this Chamber are so clearly behind the same proposal for adoption where we distance ourselves from all anti-Semitism. And I am extremely pleased about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142623	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142624	Can the rapporteur mention a few sentences where people from the far left and people from the far right have been convicted of calling for the killing of Jews?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142638	At the moment, I cannot mention any specific judgments, either from one, the other or the third target group. That's not exactly what I brought with me here on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142648	Then I see no more people who have asked to speak, and so we thank the rapporteur. And then we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128142712	Yesterday we remembered that it was 75 years ago that the Russians moved into the Auschwitz-Birkenau camp and put an end to the Nazi attacks on the Jewish people. We all know the story: they were shot, they were gassed, they were starved, or they worked themselves to death in that camp and many other places besides. In total, 1.1 million people are expected to lose their lives there and 6 million in total. It must never be forgotten, and I think it is important to remember that these horrors took place in Europe. It happened in our backyard, and many looked passively while it happened probably out of fear of what could happen to themselves. Could that happen today? I hope not. However, the 2015 attack on the Jewish synagogue, where the young Jewish man Dan Uzan lost his life, showed that anti-Semitism is still alive. It also showed that we were able to stand together as a nation about the Jews and behind their right to practice their religion or have their own identity. The common rejection of the act of terrorism was a strong and popular signal, and it remained a small bright spot in all the sad things. Since then, the Jews have unfortunately had to get used to guarding the places where they come. I visited them myself with our chairman in SF at Caroline School and saw the machine gun-armed guards in the schoolyard in 2015. It's become their new day-to-day This is regrettable, but it is unfortunately still necessary to maintain their protection. SF then, in the wake of the attack on the synagogue, believed that an action plan should be drawn up to eliminate such hate crimes. It was discussed, but it was never politically withdrawn by a majority. Fortunately, the government is calling for that action plan to come now, with a definition of anti-Semitism and more information and education. I think that's good. Police action is necessary, but, of course, we should like to go where we prevent abuse from happening, and we should have some answers on how to ensure that we can maintain our democratic right to be who we are, regardless of skin colour, religion and ethnicity. For it must not threaten it must threaten Jews and other minorities, for it is a threat to our open, tolerant and democratic society and our values. It's an attack on all of us, and it doesn't just make anti-Semitism the Jewish problem. It's ours, too. Last year in 2019 the anti-Semitism unfortunately once again sprung out its ugly head. Vandalism was committed at a Jewish burial site in Randers, and several mailboxes were installed on Jewish stars even on the crystal night itself, where we distance ourselves from the actions of the Nazis when they destroyed synagogues and Jewish shops. The signal of the vandalism is unmistakable: it must create fear; a feeling of not being welcome, just as we saw it the other day when a mosque was subjected to vandalism. This is unacceptable, and the SF is ready to act on this. We are ready to participate to the best of our ability in the work of drawing up an action plan. We were ready in 2015 with the support needed. So do we now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143036	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143041	Thank you for your very clear support for the fight against anti-Semitism from the Socialist People's Party. I'm really glad about that, among other things. because I remember that I was probably back in high school reading a book called "The Israel of Zionism," written by a lady named Anne Grete Holmsgaard, who was at least at that time a member of the Socialist People's Party. And it has to be said that there is a very, very long way to put the Zionist movement to hate, that is, the simple desire for the Jews to have their own country. I know that Mrs Anne Grete Holmsgaard is still a member of the Socialist People's Party, and that is why I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that if you are against the Jews' right to have their own country, you are anti-Semitism.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143135	Well, I shouldn't be able to tell you what Anne Grete Holmsgaard once wrote, because I haven't read it. But I know that she was flirting with certain movements, and I also know that there were people in the SF who distanced themselves from it. I just want to say that today it is SF's parliamentary group that determines how our policy is in this area, and it has been our clear intention all the way through to support the right of the Jews to be here as democratic fellow citizens. We were ready in 2015 with more money for the police, we secured guarding the Jewish institutions, and we demanded an action plan. So I do not think there can be any doubt that we in the SF support the right of the Jews to be here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143215	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143217	This is by no means my concern. Well, I have no reason to distrust either Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt or the Socialist People's Party. I would just like it to appear in the parliamentary protocols that we agree that anti-Zionism is anti-Semitism.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143236	Well, if sir... Morten Messerschmidt refers to the fact that the SF has been involved in criticism of the state of Israel's occupation of the West Bank, so I would say that we will continue to participate in this. But it should not be linked to this debate, because it has nothing to do with the Jews in Denmark. In Denmark, we are responsible for the fact that regardless of who you are, whether you are a Jew, a Muslim, a homosexual or something else, you have the right to be here as you are and with the whole identity you have. There should certainly be no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143308	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143313	Thank you for that and I thank you for the clear support for the same position we have in the Danish People's Party in relation to what should be done against anti-Semitism in Denmark. I also think it is good that it has been established here that SF is not an anti-Zionist party that some might have thought that SF was or is. It is thus established that you are not. Having said that, I would like to hear the opinion of the SF rapporteur, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, on the statements made by the Prime Minister in the newspaper Politiken, which I think have been extremely liberating, because something was said there that we needed to hear someone say and not least a Prime Minister. But does the SF agree with the Prime Minister in what has been said, that the anti-Semitism that we see is largely borne by immigration that has been to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143417	It is obvious that there are small, limited environments in Islamist circles where anti-Semitism thrives, and we must say that this has been achieved with immigration, so I agree with the Prime Minister on that point. But I would also like to raise the flag of saying that the vast majority of Muslims in Denmark recognise the right of other people to be here, including the Jews, and there are practically no problems with them. It is a small minority, but I think that is a huge problem. That is quite unacceptable, and I therefore think it is good that we should now have an action plan that includes all anti-Semitism, wherever it comes from.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143503	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143506	So you can conclude that SF agrees with the Prime Minister that immigration bears a large part of the blame for the fact that we see anti-Semitism in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143520	I certainly agree with the Prime Minister so far that we can say that there is a part of the Muslim environment, an Islamic minority which is anti-Semitic, and it is evident that they have come here as refugees or as immigrants at some point in time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143539	The next question is Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143542	Thank you for the floor and thank you for a fine speech. I am glad that the SF recognises two of the wings that are behind this ugly anti-Semitism, which unfortunately we see increasingly in Denmark. The third wing is as if it did not really touch on, and unfortunately it is not in the proposal for adoption either, and perhaps it is somewhat related to what Mr. Mr Messerschmidt referred to this issue of anti-Semitism in relation to anti-Zionism, and so I would like to ask the rapporteur a question: does the rapporteur think that it is anti-Semitic when one does not recognise the right of the Jews to have their own country, therefore, not the right of the Jews to be in Denmark, but the right of the Jews to have their own homeland? If you do not recognize that right and are an anti-Zionist, are you also anti-Semite?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143631	In fact, I do not think it has much to do with the debate here today. I think what we are discussing here is how we should combat anti-Semitism in Denmark. Then I know that there are some who want to link everything that is happening in Israel to what is happening here in Denmark, but I do not really think you can. I never think, regardless of what happens in Israel, it can ever legitimise that there is abuse of Jews in Denmark. I would strongly reject that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143659	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143700	But that is precisely what is part of the problem on the left. Now the Islamic environments are being mentioned, and it is true that there are imams preaching hatred and persecution of Jews, but there are also native Arabs and Palestinians or former Palestinians who have a different view of Jews because they cannot understand that the foreign policy conditions in which they are welcome to engage politically cannot be used as an excuse for persecuting or hating Jews in Denmark. So things are connected. If you do not recognize the right of the Jews to be here, but also to have their own country, is it not anti-Semitic?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143744	At any rate, I will stand by the right of the SF to criticise the situation in Israel at any time. We will also do so in the future, but it will never be possible to legitimise the abuse of Jews in Denmark. We are behind very, very strongly opposed to this. I think that the confusion in the debate between what is happening in Israel and what is happening in Denmark is a challenge, and that is why I think it is good that some of what the government is up to is actually more education and more information, so that we can separate the two things, because they really have nothing to do with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143822	The next question is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143823	I would actually like to continue a little along the lines of the issue that Mrs Pernille Vermund raised, because I do not think any of us are claiming that it leads to anti-Semitism to criticise the actions of the State of Israel. It is perfectly legitimate to do so. You can agree with that or not, but it is legitimate to do so. But does the rapporteur think that the type of anti-Zionism in which it is said that the state of Israel is not allowed to exist, that the Jews are not entitled to their own country, leads to anti-Semitism also in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143901	I think this discussion takes some of the character of some foreign policy. I think we must recognise that the state of Israel exists. I don't think much can be moved on that. But there are also some areas which are occupied, and I think we should continue to criticise that. I myself have been to Israel watching settlements and seeing some of the attacks on the Palestinians, and I would say that these are not nice things going on down there. At any rate, I will continue to criticise this and the SF will continue to criticise it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143937	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143939	That is fine, and we can take a debate on that another time. It has nothing to do with anti-Semitism, whether you are against the settlements. But let me ask you another way, because I am completely in doubt when I hear the rapporteur's speech: does the SF believe that the state of Israel has the right to exist, therefore, no talk about settlements, but whether the state of Israel has the right to exist?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128143958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128144000	Yes, I believe that the State of Israel has the right to exist, but I do not believe that the State of Israel has the right to commit attacks on the Palestinians and to make settlements. They repeatedly violate the rights of the Palestinians. I think this is a huge problem and we will continue to criticise it in the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128144017	Thank you to the rapporteur from the SF. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128144034	Thank you. Every November we in Denmark mark the anniversary of the Nazis' targeted attack and killing of about 1,500 Jewish fellow citizens in Germany and Austria, as in many parts of the rest of the world, the night between 9 and 10 November 1938. The Jewish persecutions in November 1938 were only the forerunners of the Nazis' organized killing of about 6 million European Jews during World War II. Today we know that the Nazi takeover of power in Germany in 1933 and the Nuremberg Race Laws from 1935 were the first steps on the road to the organized mass killing of 6 million people. Smart people in the contemporary, in the 1930s, Danish politicians and the Danish public warned about what was happening in Germany but far too few listened. The Danish government and Parliament did not react in the 1930s by creating safe escape routes for German and Austrian Jews who needed to get away before the mass murderers really took hold; even in the months between November 1938 and the occupation of Denmark, where it had actually been possible to save a great many lives. Instead, the then SR government, with broad support from the Left and Conservatives, tightened up the asylum policy of the time and handed Jewish refugees over to the Gestapo if they were apprehended in the border country or if their temporary residence permits in Denmark expired. Many of them were later killed by the Nazis, for example. in the Auschwitz extermination camp, which we marked yesterday the 75th anniversary of the liberation of. I think that is also a day that reminds us that Nazism, anti-Semitism and racism should not be allowed to show their ugly faces in Denmark. On the website genocide.dk, which the Danish Institute for International Studies is responsible for, one can about the situation of German Jewish refugees after November 1938 among others. Read: "The Danish border was short and well guarded. Consequently, relatively few refugees entered the country illegally. And those who succeeded were quickly discovered and arrested. If the fugitive had no one to help him and plead his case with the authorities, he was handed over to the German police. ▪ Such was a tight asylum policy in 1938 and 1939. In Denmark, we understandably prefer to focus on October 1943 when the Swedes and Danes together managed to save about 6,000 Jews out of Denmark, but the Danish politicians' no to help German and Austrian Jews before then belong to our history. In November 2019 some people chose to mark the anniversary of Nazi Jewish persecution by painting 84 Jewish tombstones in a cemetery in Randers. If you're going to believe the police's information, the two men in custody right now are neo-Nazis. For most people in Denmark, it is completely incomprehensible that there are still people who subscribe to the neo-Nazi idea. But the vandalism reminds us that we must be vigilant and that we must actively defend ourselves against anti-Semitism. And I am glad and proud that the Enhedslisten in Randers got a mark on his legs to support the Danish Jews rather quickly. Unfortunately, anti-Semitism is not just something that today comes from such an infinitely small neo-Nazi minority. In 2015, we saw that an assassin targeted the synagogue in Krystalgade, Copenhagen, and killed a guard from the Jewish congregation. Also this terrible terrorist attack was an expression of anti-Semitism and there is no reason to believe that this perpetrator was a Nazi. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that anti-Semitism also exists in our societies, including Denmark, and we believe that it should be combated. Jews in Denmark, their homes, their institutions must be protected, and knowledge of anti-Semitism and any other persecution of ethnic or religious minorities must be on the agenda and on the school schedule. Police action against hate crime must be strengthened, including: by strengthening knowledge on the subject of police education, but also by creating a special police unit to combat hate crime. We must learn from history, and we must be proud of our ancestors because they helped Jews to Sweden in 1943. But we must be ashamed of our history because we rejected German and Austrian Jews and sent them back into the arms of the Gestapo. For the Enhedslisten, historical teaching is about the consequences of a strict asylum policy towards persecuted religious and ethnic minorities coming to Denmark. We all have a responsibility, whether we are on the right, whether we are on the left or in the middle, to combat anti-Semitism and racism everywhere we meet it. The Enhedslisten can vote in favour of the proposal for adoption which Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128144544	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128144549	Thank you. And thank you for an excellent speech by the rapporteur. We have dealt with the subject several times today, namely that there are, as it were, three environments from which anti-Semitism originates in Europe. It is the Nazi or the highly right-wing environment; it is so relatively easy to explain in goose eyes because they subscribe to some morbid ideology where they have imagined themselves that Jews are the enemy, and then there are the more left-wing environments and the Muslim environments. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur can say what the rapporteur thinks is the reason why there is anti-Semitism in the two environments too, not all of them, but some of the environments from which anti-Semitism originates.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128144630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128144632	Unfortunately, we know that there are anti-Semitism in very radical Islamic environments, such as: Hizb ut-Tahrir, and I believe that we must fight that. I believe that we must combat this completely. I cannot deny that it should be found in some places on the extreme left. I still need some concrete examples. I can assure the Liberal Alliance rapporteur that it is not in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128144701	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for any further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128144716	Thank you. In 2013, I helped make a TV broadcast called • The last Jew in Cairo, which Steen Nørskov and I made for Danmarks Radio. At that time, when we were down in Cairo, there were officially 11 Jews left in the city 11 women. The youngest of them was 67 years old. She was the head of the congregation and an excellent woman who fought for the culture of the Jews in Egypt, who has existed since Ramses II's time, as she said. She pointed out that in the 1940s about 100,000 Jews lived in Egypt. In the 1900s about 2 million Jews lived in the Muslim world. Many of them had fled from the Inquisition in the 1500s in southern Europe to the Muslim world, but there were about 2 million. Now there are only about 6,000-7,000 left, mainly in Morocco and Tunisia. Many of them actually fled long before the State of Israel was established. It was as a result of the Islamist movements that were on the rise in the early 1900s, for part of the DNA of the Islamists is hatred of the Jews. Many fled then, when the state of Israel was established, more fled after the Suez crisis, and now they are down there, and that is disastrous because they are part of that culture down there. Moreover, Christians in that part of the world experience similar persecution. So we really must be aware that the same does not apply and is happening here in Western Europe. There are Jews who migrate to Israel and elsewhere, especially from France, where they experience strong anti-Semitism. Antisemitism is not only prejudice about Jews; so it is also when one denies the existence of the Holocaust and similar things. That is why I think it is, in fact, an important debate that we have today. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for asking for this inquiry debate. In Denmark, unfortunately, we have recently seen anti-Semitism once again show its terrible face, and that is totally unacceptable. We will not accept racist and discriminatory behaviour, and we all have the responsibility to combat it. Yes, it exists on the extreme right and also on the extreme left, but it is primarily in the Islamist environments. We have two very concrete examples of Islamist imams that have been convicted of calling for the killing of Jews. So it is very, very concrete anti-Semitism that we have in Denmark, and therefore it is no use trying to deny it and smooth out and saying that it exists on all wings. It is something that primarily has to do with the Islamist environments and certain mosques that we have in Denmark, primarily the Grimhøjmoskeen, Heimdalsgademoskeen, Imam Ali Mosqueen. This is far from the first time we have experienced anti-Semitism and persecution of Jews. When I think about what the Jewish people in Denmark and the world have been through, I am filled with disgust. It is time for us to seriously curb anti-Semitism. The Jews have shown an excellent way to be integrated here in Denmark. That is why I welcome this debate and I am pleased that the Prime Minister has spoken against anti-Semitism in this way without reservation. I thought that was liberating. I'm glad that the government and almost all the parties of the Danish Parliament I don't want to say "all" but almost everyone takes this seriously. I think there are some who talk a little around the issue. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party are looking forward to dialogue with the government and the other parties to get a national action plan to combat anti-Semitism not only through talk but also through concrete actions and legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128145205	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the alternative. It's sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128145216	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by saying that we had also called for a debate on the same subject. And then we drew our question, and we did, because in the alternative we think that this is an area that we must all stand together in, no matter where we stand politically. So thank you to the Danish People's Party. Whether anti-Semitism comes from religious extremists, from the right or from the left, it must be combated. The radicalised right no longer goes with sloping strap and side-separation. Today's Nazis must be found in the youth room, in the basement in front of the computer. The threat from the right wing is now far more diffuse and dangerous than before, which requires focus and action before it is really too late. Once Nazis were called Jonni, lived in Greve and drove in Volvo. Back then, no one was really afraid of the DNSB chairman and his crowd of dubious talents. When they didn't sit and electrocute themselves on Radio Oasis's aging dj-pult, they could be found walking half-time in Greve's peaceful residential neighborhoods. And in the evening local citizens gathered and sang a quiet song. That was then. Today, right-wing extremism is in every way more sinister, opaque and dangerous. As we saw with the recruitment of religious extremists to ISIS, right-wing extremists have now also moved into the obscure backyards of the Internet. In a reply to the Danish Parliament, the Center for Terror Analysis informs us that in these environments there is an impact through radicalising propaganda on e.g. social media. Private facebook groups and anonymous chat forums such as 4Chan, 8Chan and Reddit now form the outline of a highly defined political movement on the right. The Nazi castle with high fences is now replaced by an opaque network of more or less hidden virtual forums. The environment referred to by the Center for Terror Analysis consists mainly of socially isolated and fragile young men who spend much of their time online and online gaming. In the games and the various forums you talk about everything, including politics. What often starts as lockerroom talk about women, economics and general politics ends in some cases in a real radicalisation of the young, lonely man. The last many years of focus on religious extremism have been both necessary and right. I would like to repeat this: the focus of many years on religious extremism has been both necessary and right. But having said that, it is now just as crucial not to lose focus on the threat from the right. Over the last few years, the extreme Danish right has become more violent, more weapons and now also a growing number of followers. PET recently stated that there are extreme right-wing environments in Denmark that are ready to use violence to advance their agenda. That reply was handed over to the Folketing on the same day that the Italian police arrested 19 people and confiscated weapons from extremists who would start a new Nazi party in Italy. Right-wing extremism is boundless. It is therefore imperative that we keep our eye on the ball and not just shout out Islamists every time we talk about the extremes of Danish politics. Recent vandalism in Jewish cemeteries, stickers with Jewish stars on Danish houses and mailboxes, Nordfront's contact and coordination with the American extreme right-wing group AtomWaffen are all symptoms of a political movement that has gained greater courage and desire to mark itself in public space. We must be wary of and prepared for this. That is why I am also pleased that the Minister will now respond to our request for what I call a Nazi emergency response. We can call it an action plan so that the problem gets the necessary political focus. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128145638	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128145643	Thank you for your speech and thank you for your cooperation on this proposal for adoption. Having said that, I think that the speech is a little divided into two: on the one hand, recognition of the fact that there is a problem with Islamism in relation to anti-Semitism, and on the other hand, some things where you think: where did the alternative suddenly get that from? So here the emphasis is placed on everything other than what we are really debating today, namely anti-Semitism. I would like to ask Mr. Sikandar Siddique, if it is not very dangerous in relation to this whole area, if we say it is about anything but exactly anti-Semitism. I would also like to ask Mr. Mr Sikandar Siddique, if it is particularly reassuring that, in the course of an election meeting, such as that of Mr Siddique, there should be an election meeting. Sikandar Siddique participated in, was urged very strongly to support the Alternative and Sikandar Siddique from one of the Imams who went to the Middle East and undermined Denmark, and as such one must understand the desire that Israel should cease to exist. Since we're talking about this very serious issue, is that reassuring?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128145801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128145804	It is true that at an election meeting during the election campaign there was one who held these positions, but it must be said that I in no way knew that among the approx. 800 people who were present sat such a type. I subsequently found out and found out that it was one of the backers of the Muhammad crisis. To the honourable Members here, I would like to say that I am actually proud of my role in the Muhammad crisis. In fact, I have a letter from the then Foreign Minister Per Stig Møller, who is grateful for my efforts for Denmark and our country during the Muhammad crisis. So I am quite confident that in the alternative we will fight anti-Semitism, and we were actually the first party, and I was actually the first politician in the Folketing to announce that we should have such a plan of action against anti-Semitism when we saw the vandalism that was committed on the anniversary of the crystal night.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128145906	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128145911	Yeah, and then you want us to have a Nazi crisis response, too, I could understand. I would like to return to this situation, because one of the things we may be concerned about when following some of the forces that are very anti-Semitic, but also anti-Zionist, is that they also infiltrate the political parties. And we have seen several examples of such extreme forces coming in. The person I mentioned here was actually excluded from the Enhedslisten, which I think is reasonable; it was because of some other things he wanted to stone women, and Enhedslisten would not be involved in that, and one can understand that. But should we not, basically, be careful here? Should we not be careful who we are surrounding ourselves with in relation to exactly this, because we can be signing up on the unpleasant messages that come, on anti-Zionism and anti-Semitism?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128150003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128150004	I will of course also pass that advice on to the Danish People's Party. We have seen that René Danielsen, elected to the local council of Bornholm for Dansk Folkeparti, was back in the 00s active in the neo-Nazi network Danish Front. We saw Martin Henriksen celebrate the burka ban with three former members of the Danish Party in August 2018. And we have seen that Daniel Aage Holm, who was no. 3 on the list of Dansk Folkeparti in Skanderborg at the last municipal elections, at the same time was engaged in PEGIDA in Aarhus and was also active in the nationalist organisation Danesværn. These are at least some of the information that has emerged in relation to the Danish People's Party. So, yes, you have to be very, very careful.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128150046	The next question is Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128150049	Thank you for the floor. I am pleased that we have a joint proposal for adoption today, but I also noticed that there was something more than anything else in this speech, and then I noticed that the rapporteur was talking about religious extremists. I assume that these are Muslims when the rapporteur refers to religious extremists. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128150114	I believe that there are religious extremists everywhere, but here I was talking quite precisely about the radicalised Muslim terrorists and extremists. I did.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128150126	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128150128	But when we look at the studies and the figures we have, the figure shows that anti-Semitism is being committed by people on the right, by people on the left and among Muslims. Does the rapporteur recognise that there is a problem of anti-Semitism among Muslims?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128150149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128150150	I started by saying that in my rapporteur's speech. I fully recognise that there is anti-Semitism in some circles, and the undersigned and the Alternative will take the lead in combating anti-Semitism, as well as fighting anti-Semitism in the right-wing radical environments, as well as fighting anti-Semitism in the extreme left-wing environments. For us, it's not about skin color, religion or sexuality. Everyone must be allowed to live as free individuals, and no matter who does this discrimination, it must be combated.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128150225	The next question is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128150228	I must make sure that my party grows bigger so that I can ask the good questions before others do. Nevertheless, I will try. It was a good speech made by the rapporteur because it so strongly and unequivocally distanced itself from Nazism and right-wing radicals and really stressed that we must combat it in Denmark as part of the fight against anti-Semitism. Now that we know from studies in other European countries that anti-Semitism and hate crimes are much more widespread in Muslim groups and on the left, would the rapporteur not just explicitly state that, of course, anti-Semitism, which comes from Muslim environments and from the left, must have as much attention as the one coming from the Nazi environments? It would be a pity if we were left with a misunderstanding of where the alternative stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128150321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128150323	So let me make it clear once again: yes, yes and yes. That is precisely why we have drawn up an anti-racist action plan which does not really take account of which wing one is from. It must be an effective safeguard against all forms of anti-Semitism and discrimination. And I also lack that balance in Danish politics. I would like to stand with LA to fight anti-Semitism, and I also hope that the honourable Members of the Folketing will stand with the alternative and the undersigned when it comes to combating Islamophobia. I miss that balance. I miss the fact that more and more members of parliament are clearly opposed, for example. the vandalism that was committed against the mosque. There's radio silence. That is why I hope, as I will fight anti-Semitism with the entire Danish Parliament, that the honourable Members of the Danish Parliament, together with the alternative, will fight both anti-Semitism and Islamophobia.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128150426	The next question is Mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128150431	Thank you. In fact, I was about to withdraw my question because I actually thought that Mr. Sikandar Siddique was very clear, and I would like to commend him on that. I really had a question about whether there was more agreement with the Enhedslisten than with the Radicals. I think that Mrs Rosa Lund of the Enhedslisten was very clear in also talking about what is part of the causes of these challenges, namely some of the Islamist environments, while it was difficult for the Radicals that the Prime Minister might mention this. I think the rapporteur for the alternative has responded to this. Then there's the criticism, and I may have to ask questions about where they say there's radio silence when a mosque is vandalized. I think it might be a bit selective where you choose to look. There are several of our ministers with the Minister of Integration in the lead who were very quickly out. So I think maybe it's kind of nasty to make that claim.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128150528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128150530	I would like to start by saying that during the debate I have in no way been given the impression that the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten or anyone here is hesitating to support the idea that we should fight anti-Semitism. That is certainly not the impression I have. But it's true that I made an article in the Ekstra Bladet that was supposed to start a small shitstorm on Facebook. Uffe Elbæk and I had to tweet several times before we got the PM on the field before the Prime Minister condemned the attack on the mosque. It's not selective. That is the impression that many citizens are left with. After all, I encouraged the Prime Minister in a video to show that the Prime Minister is the prime minister for everyone in Denmark, and I think that there is just a large minority group in Denmark who sometimes feel that is not the case. I therefore miss, not only from the Prime Minister, but also from honourable Members, the equally sharp and equally swift condemnation of attacks and vandalism and violence committed against other minorities, committed against sexual minorities, committed against Muslim minorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128150652	Thank you. Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128150653	Perhaps I now think that my praises have been somewhat taken to the rapporteur's head here. One thing is to take credit for being the first ever to invent an action plan against anti-Semitism; another is that I think there are several parties who will think that they may have been doing so for many years. And with all due respect, sir. Sikandar Siddique and Mr. Uffe Elbæk, I believe that the Prime Minister's distance from that vandalism was not only the result of a video made by Mr. Sikandar Siddique. So let's not be platty. Of course, the rest of us are also opposed to this, but this debate is about anti-Semitism.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128150730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128150731	It is perfectly understandable that Mr. Jeppe Bruus takes the position that Mr. Jeppe Bruus does. It's sir. Jeppe Bruus's task, but nevertheless there is a huge lack among minority citizens after the Prime Minister, our Prime Minister, also backs up, there is also immediately when Muslim minorities are discriminated against. Don't forget that 56%. According to the police report of all religious hate crimes being committed against Muslims. We shall also address that here from the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128150816	That is how it was done, so I would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128150825	Last night I attended the official Auschwitz Day to remember that it is now 75 years since the Nazi concentration camps were liberated by the Allied forces. It was a moving night. The testimony of the survivors was impressed, and it was strong. In the 1930s it was the Nazis who caused the Jewish people a disaster of immense proportions. Unfortunately, Nazism has not disappeared. We are still experiencing attacks against Jews and Jewish symbols from Nazis. We saw it on the crystal night of November, when burial sites were desecrated and private mailboxes were marked with Jew stars. The nasty nature of Nazism must be combated by all democratic means. But today, unfortunately, hatred against Jews is not just directed by Nazis. It also comes from Muslims, and it comes from people on the left who believe that they can hide their anti-Semitism behind a political smokescreen, which is that resistance to the Jews having their own country has nothing to do with anti-Semitism. It has everything to do with anti-Semitism! Research from Sweden, Germany, Britain and France clearly shows that the vast majority of the anti-Semitic events experienced by Jews come from Muslim backgrounds. In our neighbouring country of Sweden, where migration from Muslim neighbouring countries has been particularly high, Muslims are behind more than half of the events. The same is true in France. In three out of the four countries studied, the left-wing is responsible for most of the anti-Semitic events that Jews have experienced. In Denmark we do not have figures on where anti-Semitism comes from, and we must have that. However, we know that Denmark is the country where most Jews choose to hide their identity in public space. This was the occasion for us to be more than 500 Danes who in the summer of 2014 walked through Nørrebro with Jewish symbols. Danish Jews must be able to move freely without concealing their identity. We also know that a Palestinian terrorist, Omar Abdel Hamid El-Hussein, a few years ago targeted the Jewish synagogue in Copenhagen and killed the young Jew Dan Uzan because he was a Jew, and we know that the threat from resident Muslims against Jewish society is so high that the Jewish private school Caroline School and the Jewish synagogue in Crystalgade are constantly guarded by police and military forces. When the Jews in Copenhagen meet in Krystalgade for church service in the synagogue or for celebrations of holidays, anniversaries and family parties, a larger apparatus is set in motion. Krystalgade is blocked off by the police, who are present with two cars and many armed officers in the area. The Jewish Society has had to train their own security specialists who guard entrances and monitor the entire area. These are the terms we offer to our Jewish minority of Danes. Right now it cannot be otherwise, but I think it is absolutely and totally unacceptable that Jews in Denmark should live with threats to life and body so that they cannot move freely and live freely in the safety of themselves, their children and families. Politically one fails the Danish Jews and all Danes when one can see the threat and know where it comes from, but does not do what is right and necessary to remove it. It is a political responsibility, who we let into our country, and we have with immigration from Muslim countries over the past 30-40 years released anti-Semitism on the Danish Jews. Politicians today must take responsibility for this and ensure that the Muslims who persecute or harass Jews are punished, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, consistently sent out of the country again after punishment. We can support the proposed text for adoption in the New Citizens' Party. It is important that we stand together in Denmark to reject anti-Semitism, and that is why New Citizens are voting in favour of the joint motion for a resolution. But there is one paragraph that we would very much have liked to have included, because anti-Semitism on the left should also be possible for us to talk about. In left-wing environments there is a widespread dislike of Jews, which is reflected in opposition to the Jewish people's universal right to national self-determination. It is anti-Semitism of the worst disappointment when the left wing wants to deny the Jews the right to their own country. Israel is the homeland of the Jews, and to deny it and fight it is the same as fighting Judaism.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128151338	Thank you to the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128151353	Thank you. In the old days there was a canary in the coal mine, in the mine shaft when digging, and the canary there was a warning of when the oxygen level was too low; when the canary drank, it was time to get up. The same applies to the degree of anti-Semitism; it is, in fact, the canary in the coal mine when it comes to free society and whether free society is under pressure. And that is why I am actually glad that the Prime Minister and today all parties in the Folketing are focusing on this problem. The Jewish Danes should only experience that official Denmark gives our unreserved support and unwavering support to fight anti-Semitism everywhere from which it shows its unbeing, regardless of the origin of the anti-Semitism. It is, of course, important to be able to talk about where it arises. We have done so today, and I think it is so good that our Prime Minister has said that it is especially among non-Western immigrants that it occurs today, and especially among the left. It is quite well documented, it should be uncontroversial to mention, but it is worrying, and that is, of course, something that we must take with us in further work. Unfortunately, for decades, indeed centuries, we have seen Jewish persecution. We have seen it in ancient Rome, in Arab countries, in France, in Poland, in Russia, in Germany before the Nazi era and, of course, in Germany under Nazism and for that matter also in the Communist Soviet Union. Anti-Semitism has actually existed as long as Judaism itself has. It is clear that it is every form and variety of religious intolerance that must be combated, but exactly anti-Semitism has at all times been and still constitutes such a very special form of intolerance which so dehumanises and condemns Jews only for their originators. And that is why it deserves special attention and attention in the fight against it. It is also relevant to be able to talk about anti-Zionism, because anti-Semitism and criticism of the State of Israel are two different things. We also recognise this and we can easily make a legitimate criticism of the actions of the State of Israel, which is not anti-Semitic, but there is also the kind of criticism that deliberately goes right to the limit of mere anti-Zionism. And that is the anti-Zionism which calls into question the right of the State of Israel to exist, the right of the Jewish people to a state, and that is where I think we are moving into something where anti-Zionism is really just an undiluted anti-Semitism. This anti-Zionism is in itself one of the main causes of the rise of anti-Semitism in Europe, and it is unfortunately on the rise. We also recently saw this with the bestialian vandalism directed at the Jewish tombstones, we regularly hear stories from Nørrebro, where the figures from the National Police also speak their clear language, when you can see that there is an increase in hate crimes committed against Jewish Danes. It must be combated, and that is why we support the establishment of a national action plan against anti-Semitism. We also believe that it is right that Muslim free schools should be given special attention and that there should be a thorough examination of both the extent of anti-Semitism in Denmark, the development of it, and from where it arises. We should also support the desire of the Jewish Society, which believes that Denmark should officially accede to the so-called non-legally binding working definition of anti-Semitism made by the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance. That is something they have been shouting about for some time, and I actually think that is one of the things that can be included in the further work. Either way, it's important that it gets our attention. As a society, we cannot afford to ignore it when the canary in the coal mine is about to change.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128151827	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. There is a request for a brief comment right here, and that is from Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128151837	Thank you. And thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur for the speech. I have only one question, and I should just like to ask the Liberal Alliance rapporteur to confirm that there is a Jewish cemetery in Nørrebro, which is not subjected to vandalisation, but is actually allowed to be there because that is the case at Nørrebro.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128151902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128151903	Yes, I can confirm that. So, I have no problem confirming those places on Nørrebro where there is peaceful coexistence with Jews and non-western immigrants, and I have absolutely no problem pointing out the opposite, and I hope that consistency applies to all parties in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128151921	There is another request for a brief comment, and that is from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128151925	Following Mrs. Rosa Lund's comment on Jewish burial sites on Nørrebro, and it is a very good thing that you can have your relatives buried without having burial sites vandalized, I would like to hear the rapporteur: when you at Nørrebro, in the same place as Mrs. Rosa Lund mentioned here, recommend Jewish children to choose schools in other neighbourhoods because there is a risk that the Jewish children will be harassed by children with Palestinian background, what does the rapporteur think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128152005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128152007	I think that is quite obvious what I think of it, in addition to both the rapporteur's speech and also the previous reply to Mrs Rosa Lund, and this in fact merely confirms that some of the anti-Semitism in Denmark stems from non-western environments and that it probably also has something to do with the anti-Zionism that prevails in the environments, including the conflict between Israel and Palestine. It would be blue-eyed to think otherwise. That is also why you can see it in left-wing environments.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128152038	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128152040	Thank you for your answer. That is exactly what I was hoping to hear, because today we have had a debate where we have talked about Muslims, we have talked about the very religious Muslims, and there is no doubt that there is an inbuilt aversion in the extremely religious Muslim environments against Jews. But this is a concrete example of the fact that what the rapporteur mentions in his speech, namely anti-Zionism, also influences how Jews live in Denmark and thus a direct link between anti-Zionism and anti-Semitism, that is, Jewish children who cannot go to school in schools at Nørrebro, because they are harassed by Palestinians who do not say that they are Muslims, but there are Palestinians, and so it must be assumed that this has to do with the conflict.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128152126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128152130	Quite evident and obvious: yes. It would be strange to have to have a need to deny it, and I find it difficult to understand those who have some need to deny that connection.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128152142	The next question is Mr. Sikandar Siddique, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128152146	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would like to ask the rapporteur something. I told you right from the platform that right-wing extremism is on the increase. According to PET's report, it poses a greater threat, right-wing extremism has easier and greater capacity to acquire weapons. Does the rapporteur think that right-wing extremism is just to make clear what the rapporteur said to me is a growing threat to anti-Semitism?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128152221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128152222	I do not see any general evidence of this. However, I have no doubt that right-wing extremism itself, particularly as the perverted ideology it is, is one of several causes of anti-Semitism, and that is something we must fight on an equal footing with all the others. Whether there is an increase in right-wing radical anti-Semitism, I am not really convinced, but figures must convince me of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128152251	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128152254	Then I can tell you that, worldwide, it can be seen that right-wing extremism and the threat are increasing, and it was in fact because we have now talked so much about what I drew the question. Because it was supposed to be anti-Semitism today, but we've been around, and that's why I want to hear something right here. When 56%. of all religious hate crimes being committed against Muslims, does the rapporteur also believe that there is a need for us to address hate crimes against our Muslim fellow citizens in Denmark in another question debate, or at least at another time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128152329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128152331	In my original draft, I had some figures on hate crimes committed against Muslims and Jews respectively, and now I am simply trying to find them out, for it is true that there have been 67 recorded hate crimes against Muslims and 38 against Jews. So in this way it can be said that the extent of hate crimes against Muslims is much greater and therefore it should also require an action plan. But I feel that we have a few thousand Jews in Denmark, but several hundred thousand Muslims, and there is some proportionality that suggests that the Jews are significantly more exposed than the Muslims, although the absolute individual figures from the report will say otherwise. I hope it makes sense, but time's up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128152405	The next question is Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128152409	Thank you. It was a bit in the wake of a question from Mrs Rosa Lund which I, as I felt, gave the impression that everything was joy and gammen at Nørrebro, and I would like to hear first of all whether Mr. Alex Vanopslagh agrees. I'd like to remind you, too, sir. Alex Vanopslagh about a story that came up a few years ago, where a journalist from Radio24syv as an experiment put on a castle and then was threatened with knocking at Nørrebro. He walked up and down Nørrebrogade and was told: Don't be in here, you bother people when you have it on your head. At one point ten people, whom he called hard-pumped guys, came and told him he shouldn't, and some of them threatened him with bank and demanded money, etc. etc. It was pure harassment, and when it was discovered that the person concerned was a journalist, he should have told him that he was a journalist. Ergo, if he hadn't been a reporter, it certainly didn't, and it was just something worse. Isn't this an example of something on Nørrebro that doesn't really play?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128152530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128152531	In general, I have the approach that, in this type of debate, we should approach the matter fairly soberly and not have a fear of touching things and not be afraid to say things as they are, and therefore I am not afraid to say that anti-Semitism is, in all probability, greater on Nørrebro because they have a higher level of non-western immigrants and descendants. I think that is quite uncontroversial. But in the same spirit and in the same approach, one must also be able to mention all the good examples that are, both at Nørrebro, but also at all, that is, just the fact that the Jewish Society, in cooperation with Muslim associations and together, goes out and teaches at a number of folk schools in the need for peaceful coexistence, let us just take it as a headline. So that is a good example, and I have no problem highlighting the bad examples, even when it comes to integration and the immigration debate, on the contrary, just as I do not have the good examples. Are there more bad examples than good examples of Nørrebro? Yeah, most likely.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128152626	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128152629	Thanks for the answer here. I would add that the issue is that we are facing a challenge in relation to anti-Semitism. But I suppose we are also faced with the issue of anti-Zionism. For what, like many of the anti-Semitic forces, is hated of Israel and hated of the establishment of the State of Israel, and what it has brought with it, in the eyes of some, negative things. Well, then, sir. Mr Vanopslagh does not agree that we have a problem here and that, to the extent that political parties hold up and want anti-Zionism, it can be dangerous because it leads to anti-Semitism?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128152713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128152715	I fully agree that one particular form of anti-Zionism is such an undiluted version of anti-Semitism. That's where I think sir. Peter Skaarup and I are completely in line with each other, and I also believe that Denmark in Danish foreign policy should, on the whole, give a degree of unconditional support to the state of Israel. But it must also be the case that, if the State of Israel is committing any acts that we believe are wrong, I cannot, at this moment in time, be able to criticize it, even if we want to fight anti-Semitism in the hypothetical scenario. As I said, I cannot give examples where I would like to criticise the state of Israel.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128152758	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Then the party rapporteurs have been on the platform, and so it is time to ask the Minister for Justice to come to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128152810	Thank you for a good and interesting debate, in which we have actually come around in many places. When I have been listening to it this way, I think that what I am collecting is based on the fact that in reality it is perhaps a little right when the Liberal Alliance rapporteur says that this talk about anti-Semitism is a little in a class alone. And what is it that leads me there? Well, that's that it hits some of it that we've spent a lot of time discussing. Those who practice anti-Semitism come from the extreme left, from the extreme right and from the circle of Islamists. What do they have in common? Yes, they have it in common that they all stand on totalitarian ideologies. The extreme left is on communism, the extreme right on Nazism/Fascism, and Islamism is ideology in itself. And what are the ideologies that we need to take such a strong stand against? It is, of course, with the rejection of human rights, the rejection of freedoms that one does not believe in a world that grows in trade between countries, that one does not believe in international law through agreements, but that, on the other hand, one believes in historical, that a country is best, if there is one strong leader, that one basically believes that there are some who oppress the little man, and that the little man will be released if one listens to these ideologies, that is, the idea that somehow encapsulates them all, that they represent some kind of gentleman. In fact, I think that when there is so much reason to shout at arms in relation to anti-Semitism, it is because the point of equality between those who produce anti-Semitism is that they pay tribute to these totalitarian ideologies which we have suffered and which we must continue to fight; who want to fight our freedoms and which we sacrificed millions of lives to silence in the 1940s. And if you are in doubt, you can go down to the French shores and see all the white crosses that stand there that have traveled for dead American young men who fell in the fight against these totalitarian ideologies, I know that Islamism was not so strong at the time, but Nazism and Communism did. That's the truth. And if I'm going to try to cut through what's my lesson from today and you have every right to say that it was a rather strange conclusion, it didn't seem right in the closet, or it wasn't really his best day. And that's also why I'm so infinitely fond of it, and I really am that all the parties of the Danish Parliament, despite disagreements and teasings and arguments etc. I would like to congratulate Mrs Inger Løjberg on what she has said. We simply do not want to do this. We don't want to do this. The Danish Parliament, the Danish people's government, will not move that way. Yeah, it got a little fluffy, sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128153207	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128153213	Thank you, Minister. I started the whole debate by commending the Minister, and I will do so again. I have the privilege of working closely with the Minister because I am the rapporteur for legal policy, and that is why I know that the Minister is concerned about this area. Antisemitism is something very special; there is no doubt about it. It is a category for itself, so to speak, because of the historical context. That's also why we withdrew our request so that we could stand together on this. But I want to hear something from the Minister, because one does not rule out the other. In fact, we also see that Islamophobia and hate crimes against our Muslim minorities are increasing. It is not a call for teasing or anything else: could we not also look at whether we could make an action plan; whether we could look at how things stand and also stand together, just as we are doing here, about fighting Islamophobia, because Danish Muslims are also part of our community, and everyone, regardless of ethnicity, religion and sexuality, must be able to exercise and live a free life? So it is a call to the Minister. But there has to be a huge praise from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128153325	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128153328	Yes, we must combat hate crimes and we are on the way with an action plan on hate crimes. And when I speak of Islamism, I am not talking about Muslims in the broadest sense; I know so well that it is about faith, but we all know here that there are Muslims who are about as little solid in the flesh in the Muslim faith as I am firmly in the flesh in the Christian faith, and that there are those who are Islamist fundamentalists. What is the problem is that this is how shooting is done when you hit where it really is going to be a problem. We must be careful not to hate all Muslims, because it is the Islamists who have the ideology that we must tackle.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128153421	The next short remark is Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128153426	Thank you. It's just a follow-up. I completely agree with you that, of course, all Muslims should not be hated because there are Muslims who are anti-Semitic. However, I would like to challenge the fact that it is purely religiously conditional. In other words, when you say that it is only those who are extremely religious, who are anti-Semitic, you isolate anti-Semitism to imams and Islamist terrorists, but you exclude the part of anti-Semitism that comes from people who have come here from Palestine... the Palestinians who are registered as Lebanese... who live much of it on Nørrebro, and who are one of the reasons why you notice that the conflict that exists in the Middle East is also everyday in Denmark. Does the Minister not recognize that, in addition to the very religious and extremist Muslims, there are also some people who, because they bring the conflict from the Middle East up here, have an anti-Semitic attitude towards Jews?
ParlaMint-DK_20200128153535	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128153537	Yeah, and that's what I was trying to illustrate by talking about this shooting lesson. It is easy to point out those who are at the extreme extremely Islamic wing, i.e. the Islamic State, etc. So it is not quite good either; here we have to get to grips with something. And I wonder if we can do something about an action plan, if we can give information about the Jewish people and so on exactly in primary school and elsewhere, which might help prevent the problem from getting worse and, hopefully, reduce it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128153618	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. I now give the floor to the rapporteur for the questioners. It's from the Danish People's Party, and it's Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128153631	In conclusion, I would also like to thank you on the platform for a very good debate, a factual debate with many good ideas and input. I believe that some of what is important now is that we focus our efforts, not least, of course, together with the government, which, like it, has the right to play out here, so that something is done about anti-Semitism and that we, the Danish Parliament, follow that work. I heard the Minister say that the parties of the Folketing will be involved in these things, and I think there are plenty of good ideas. We ourselves, the Danish People's Party, have today mentioned prevention in schools and free schools and action against extreme mosques and hate preachers. We have also mentioned better research because, as Mrs Pernille Vermund and others have also mentioned, it is clear that the research we have in Denmark is relatively poor in this area. More of this is needed. Then we have also mentioned from our side that we also need to look at the levels of penalties. For what we have seen with the quarreling of cemeteries we simply cannot be familiar with and there must be some emotional punishment. We do not know where we end up with the different levels of punishment in a number of other areas. This is being negotiated at the moment, also as a result of the debate on police appropriations and links in this connection to the courts, the Public Prosecutor's Office and elsewhere in our judicial system. But basically, we need a chain tightening in this area, and that is actually what we want to achieve with this debate, and I think we have achieved that. So far, so good. I would also like to thank the parties of the Danish Parliament for the fact that it was all of us who supported a proposal for adoption, and thank you for the cooperation on it. It is a good sign that we can move forward along the same lines in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128153841	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Thursday 30 January 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20200128153857	This means that there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 29 January, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
