ParlaMint-DK_20200622090005	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Peter Hummelgaard): Bill no. L 204 (Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Active Employment and the Law on Unemployment Insurance, etc.) in 2020-2021) and Bill No. L 205 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Active Employment Activities, the Law on Unemployment Insurance, etc., the Law on Pre- Adult Education and Vocational Education, the Law on Amending the Law on Labour Market Education, etc., the Law on Preparatory Adult Education and Education for Adults, the Law on Employers' Educational Contributions, the Law on Allowances and Allowances for Carriage by Participation in Vocational Adult and Continuing Training, and various other laws, and the Law on a Travel Guarantee Fund. Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Committee on Health and the Elderly has presented: Report on speeding up the revision of the Code of Epidemics. 2. The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. Today's closing debate is being interpreted in sign language so that the deaf can follow the debate. The sign language interpretation can be found directly on the Danish Parliament's website.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622090058	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622090120	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption is not postponed. We must first have a explanatory statement, and that is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Jesper Petersen, who justifies the request.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622090155	This should not be a long, critical introduction. I just want to say that, as tradition prescribes, we would like to have a graduation debate here in the Folketing. All parties and the Non-attached Members of the House are asking the Prime Minister what information she can give on the domestic and foreign policy situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622090214	Thank you. I would point out that we are now receiving the reply from the Prime Minister, and after the reply there will be no time for brief comments. We'll take them out at some point in the evening, I think. Prime Minister for the response, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622090236	Today we are concluding a parliamentary year that was quite different from what we had imagined. Denmark and the world were affected by an unknown, contagious and deadly virus. With one blow, the problems of everyday life became small, something bigger was at stake, life and death. In this situation, the whole of Denmark was united. We looked after the elderly and the vulnerable. We carried each other's fates in our hands literally. Never has it been clearer how dependent we are on each other. In Denmark, 600 people have died with corona, every life lost is a loss. But against this background we have saved many more lives together; preventing even more victims of the virus. We can be proud of that. We can also be proud that our healthcare system made it through the spring. We managed to reset the hospitals, so there was enough capacity. New departments were opened in record time, health workers worked long shifts. The sick got help. A huge thanks to all of you who work in our healthcare, to you who work in the care of the elderly, to all of you who take care of the most vulnerable and vulnerable. The Corona has made special demands on the staff in the front line. At the same time, we have taken action to protect jobs and the economy. We have also done this together: companies, employees and the Folketing. From the outset, it was obvious that corona was not just a health crisis. It was a social crisis. The virus spread from country to country. So did the economic problems. The production stop in China immediately settled in the world economy and in Danish exports, the uncertainty increased. For the sake of the economy we never shut down the entire Danish society, but could part of society. Most in the public sector were sent home. This allowed many in the private sector to continue to go to work in production, in the energy sector, in the supply sector, in shops and in the transport sector. When we opened up again, step by step, we also took account of health, the economy and jobs. These have been dramatic months in which we acted together, where we acted quickly and where we would rather go one step too far than one step too short. It has been absolutely crucial for where we stand today, namely a good place. We have won the first half of the battle against corona by common force in Denmark. What we have accomplished together, all of Denmark, will go down in history. We can be grateful, and we can be proud. Denmark, well done. But we're not through yet. There's another half, too, maybe more. The infection is still here. We see that in the world, and we were reminded of it at home just last week. For the first time in several months, today we are holding a meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly without restrictions. As in all other jobs, many things are different. We need to keep more distance and take account of each other. The latter may actually look very good. Greenlandic and Faroese members are also back. It's good to see you guys again. I am full of admiration for the efforts in your countries. In the Faroe Islands and in Greenland it has gone beyond all expectations, effectively. You've found your own answers to the corona crisis. You have shown the strength of small communities. In Denmark we won on old forces community and community mind but we also discovered new things along the way, things were turned upside down. The one who picks up our garbage, the one who cleans, the bus driver, the truck driver, the one who sits in the box in the supermarket, and thousands of other Danish employees: All too often we have taken you for granted. Now you stayed at work when others were sent home. We can't do without you. Isn't that what forced a new respect? And teachers and educators and educational assistants and many others: you have organized emergency care, emergency education and re-opening; you were given the opportunity to think things over quickly without both the public and private sectors we have been quick to adapt to a new situation, using the knowledge we gained along the way, all have been flexible and pragmatic. Where's that coming from? We have a common awareness in Denmark that we are helping each other as something quite natural, it should appear: Public aid packages for private companies; private companies that turn production into hand alcohol and visors; employers and trade unions that take responsibility in an extraordinary situation; here in the Folketing we have made almost 40 political agreements on corona, and all ten parties are behind the most important decisions. This shows the strength of the Danish people's government, and it provides security for our entire population. The Community has brought us here where we stand today. It is also the community that must now move us forward. It was not only human lives and hospitals that were at stake, it was the whole economy. Our ways of tackling the crisis with rapid and partial decommissioning have provided security for employees and companies, and all sections of society have provided theirs to get jobs and businesses well through. The Folketing released additional capital, provided guarantees. This gave the banks a better chance of lending money to the small company that was hard pressed at the start. Then the hairdresser and the craftsman and the cafe could hold on to their employees. At the same time, many Danes chose to buy locally and support their small shops. In just one week in March, we agreed on two major financial aid packages, a historic tripartite agreement with the social partners on wage compensation. A united Parliament was behind the agreements. We've done all this together. We have held hands under thousands of companies and close to a quarter of a million employees. The Tripartite Agreement shows the strength of our social contract. The public sector and the private sector work closely together. It's unique. The State paid wage compensation to the workers sent back, the companies held back with the light bill, and the employees gave their holidays. Everyone found pragmatic solutions. Together, we then expanded the aid packages, resolved the problems which of course turned out to be, made the arrangements even better. When we put it all together, we managed to keep working Denmark going and put a safety net under really, very many people. The whole of the great effort is basically based on a broad responsibility throughout Danish society, but the effort was only possible because we have a core-healthed Danish economy • low debt, robust public finances, money fits into the future, high employment and low unemployment. The healthy economy is also the result of joint action. Changing governments and parties here in the Folketing have shown great responsibility: reforms of taxes, education and the labour market, and not least the 2006 welfare agreement. This gives us a good start in getting out of the crisis we are in now. The backlash for the Danish economy is going to be big this year. The government estimates a fall in gross domestic product of over 5%. It is more than during the financial crisis. The assessment is that the crisis will be deep, but that we will come back faster than during the financial crisis. Of course, the big setback is rooted in several relationships. A pandemic at global level will result in a lot of uncertainty, and of course uncertainty means that many of them have held back. This also applies to companies in terms of investment. The world economy has stopped sharply, and almost 800,000 Danish jobs depend on exports. Of course, restrictions have limited the scope for activity. Fortunately, there are industries that are doing well, but many are still hard hit: tourism, hotels, travel, restaurants, culture, experiences and many more. Small self - employed people have not only lost their livelihoods for a period of time; unfortunately, many have seen their life's work lost. Even more will be hit. Orders will be empty in some places. There's the help packages running out. They were the right effort at the right time, but they are in their nature temporary. We have now agreed to phase them out after the summer break. We think this is the right decision, even though we know that it will be felt both in companies and in employees. Too many people have lost their jobs and more will come. Unemployment is the ugly face of every crisis. We know what it does to a person to be without a job, what it can do for an entire family. It is a question of deprivation, uncertainty and a hope that is being put out. If you ask the government, we regard unemployment as a social problem and it will always be a social democratic government's most important task to combat it. We must not lose a generation of young people to long-term unemployment; that must be our common promise. And we need to pay particular attention to many of you who have become unemployed during this crisis and who cannot get back to the job you were in before, because maybe the job doesn't actually exist anymore. Some companies will shut down while others are shooting up. The labour market is going to change. I know that some of you who have unskilled jobs do not have the very best memories from school, but many of you will need new skills. You must have the opportunity to spend your time with unemployment and without a job in the best way possible and better than usual - by, for example, an apprenticeship, even if you are an adult; or by further specialization. I would urge everyone who is without a job today to use the opportunities you have. 730 million kr. are devoted to the upgrading and training of the unemployed. 110% has been set aside. In the case of unemployment benefit for unskilled workers who take a vocational training course where there is a shortage of people. And more than 5 billion have been set aside. kr. to hold hands under apprentices, pupils and businesses. Restoring the economy is a social responsibility. It's a responsibility this government takes seriously. It's a responsibility I take seriously. It is a responsibility that we must take upon ourselves here in the Folketing. A broad green housing agreement we have concluded the largest ever: 30 billion. kr. Until the year 2026 to renovate housing in the general housing sector, which is one of the most important cornerstones of our society. It is good for the tenants, it is good for the environment and it is good for employment. There will be an extraordinary increase in municipal and regional capital investment this year and next year. I can tell that optimism is about to take hold in Denmark. It's nice, and I share it. It is rare for us here from the platform to call directly on the Danes to spend money, but I will do so today. If you and your family can afford an extra night out at the restaurant for an extra trip to the summer country, then it does this summer. We need to get the wheels going again and more people back into the labour market. Therefore, we will pay out 3 weeks of the frozen holiday money and give 1,000 DKK. to all those who do not have holiday benefits for you who are on a retirement pension, early retirement pension, cash benefit or other transfer income. We must not only bring companies through the crisis, but also into the future, build new positions of strength and increase international market shares, so that Danish companies can produce even more and employ more. Therefore, there must be an additional deduction for research and development expenditure this year and next year and a new government fund of 10 billion. kr., which is supposed to help large social companies through this crisis. We do a lot together, but now we have to let it work. After summer, we will be assessing what more needs to be done. This, of course, depends not least on developments in the world economy. We will take stock of the situation again when we can better see how recovery is developing. A recovery, like a reopening, must be done wisely and in stages. We do not need outbid policy. Hastings can be both expensive and the wrong consideration. We must be careful here in the Folketing that the crisis does not make us fast-blind. We've spent a lot of money and really fast. This was needed because the aid packages were an investment in the future. But after the summer, we have to go back to a more normal path, where we both fund proposals and give priority to hard work. The government's economic policy framework remains a balance between revenue and expenditure in 2025. We have a responsibility that we have something to resist when a new crisis eventually hits our society. We must continue the responsible path in Danish politics. Indeed, borrowing money in a crisis can be more responsible than the opposite, but only if the money is used wisely to invest in making our society both smarter and more capable. We must maintain sound structures in the labour market and, of course, provide good conditions for Danish business. A healthy economy has given us the opportunity to act. This is important especially in a time of crisis. Therefore, a healthy economy is particularly important for those who have the least, those who are most at risk when the crisis strikes. The recovery of Danish economy must be done with care. The government has three principles: a responsible, a fair and a green. We must not only restore, we must also reinvent, transform our society. Last week a broad majority in the Danish Parliament passed the Climate Act. It obliges us to aim high: 70%. reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Last week we also reached a broad agreement on a green waste sector: more recycling, less incineration, real reductions. And last night we then concluded a broad climate agreement on energy and industry on the world's first energy island, better use of the green stream and a wise decision in principle on green tax reform. In the autumn, we're moving on. Here the government will present its climate programme; here we will bring together the concrete actions we will take and we will also illustrate what is needed to achieve objectives. Here, too, we need to be honest with each other and with the Danes: when we transform our society, it will have consequences. There will be costs, there will be dilemmas, and we will have to take account of the social balance, of employment, of growth and of Danish competitiveness. If you were to sit down and decide on your way to the 70 percent. At the same time, and only with the technological opportunities that we have today, it would have far too great an impact. Danish companies would be forced to close; unemployment would increase even further. That would be completely untenable. None of us know the way to the 70%. That condition is a common recognition by all of us who concluded the agreement on the Climate Act. That is why we need to invest, we need to innovate, we need to research, so that we can develop the technologies and solutions that can significantly reduce emissions. For this reason we have also reached out to the Danish business community and the Danish trade union movement, among others. with 13 climate partnerships. Denmark has shown what we can before: offshore wind turbines, energy efficiency, district heating solutions that we can sell worldwide today. At the same time, we create green jobs at home, in fact, there are thousands of Danish employees who make a huge difference to the climate every day because they do their job. Future companies take responsibility for the climate, and right now the world's attention is of course on the management of corona, but soon the focus will be again on the climate crisis and the green investments, and then Denmark will have to be ready. We must sell the green solutions on the world market, develop the solutions we will have to live on tomorrow. It is now time for us here in the Danish Parliament to link business promotion, innovation, the Climate Act, the high ambitions, the action plans, also in the autumn, and focus on education. Outside the world, Denmark is already known as a green pioneer country with a unique public and private cooperation, a responsible trade union movement, common solutions to common problems. These are the forces that bring us through the corona crisis. Our joint handling today enjoys international recognition. In other words, the Danish model of society has winds, and we must take advantage of that. In many ways, it is obvious to compare the situation today with the recent major crisis, that is, the financial crisis in the 00s. After that crisis many people were left with a feeling of more division, of greater inequality and less trust, also to politicians. In the fight against corona, we have chosen the opposite course. We have to hold on to that. And if we do, we can stand even stronger as a society. On Saturday it is 1 year since the government joined, and what we wanted then, we will also today: welfare, more opportunities for the most vulnerable children, a fair pension, climate and environment, development in all parts of Denmark, a progressive industrial policy. What was important before corona is also important after corona. Something's been delayed, nothing's been canceled. Those who have worked hard through a long and often too hard working life still need to be able to retire earlier. The government will, as you know, present our proposal after the summer break. We still put welfare first. When there are more old and more children, the money must come with it. The new agreements with regions and municipalities continue the line from last year's agreements and from the Finance Act, and regardless of corona, we still have to pursue an alien policy where we look after Denmark. We must do everything we can to avoid the situation that the world saw in 2015, with refugees on Danish and European motorways. The pictures and the situation have drawn long tracks. I believe that many people rightly lost confidence in the refugee and asylum systems. Thousands of people have drowned in the Mediterranean and this is a humanitarian disaster. Some of those who then reach Denmark or Europe will be refused asylum after risking everything. It's expensive, and it's not humane. At the same time, those who are most pleased with the situation are the traffickers and traffickers. I really believe that we all understand that people are fleeing when there is war and destruction and that people are moving towards better living conditions, but we need a fair and humane asylum system with reception centres outside Europe, and that is a high priority for the government, because we should not receive more people with a non-Western background in Denmark than we can also integrate, and we must make more demands on those who come here. Right and duty is one of the most important building blocks in the Danish welfare society, but it has not been clear enough at all. Therefore, all foreigners with an integration need must contribute what is equivalent to 37 hours, as most others do, and the government will propose this in the new parliamentary year. Whether our family has roots in Denmark or in another country, there is no room for value relativism, and good integration, equality between men and women, wholehearted support for democratic values and for the whole of Danish society must be what binds us together. We have come so far, and especially towards the corona, that it is now also time for reflection. Are we going to make mistakes? Yeah. Am I gonna make mistakes? Yeah. When you say that on national television, you should expect the next question to be naturally what mistakes have been made. Of course there are reflections that are joining me, too, probably with everyone, and I really want to let you into the room where I am thinking. What fills me is the responsibility of those people who are at risk of becoming seriously ill and dying of corona, you who are older, living in care centers, maybe having cancer, a bad heart, suffering from a chronic illness or being vulnerable for other reasons. Out in the world we saw nursing homes where the infection was let in, and we saw how wrong things could go, yes, how wrong things could go. Hjørring is currently severely affected, unfortunately with deaths in a nursing home. It is deep in me that we must protect the most vulnerable; it is our shared responsibility in a welfare society, and that is actually the country we are. But there are also dilemmas. On the one hand we must protect you from the infection, but on the other hand we must not take away the joy and comfort from your lives, not create loneliness and discouragement. This is not an easy balance, but we will have to ask ourselves if I do, at least if we found the right balance: a married couple 57 years old could not hug each other; a man had to wave to his demented wife from the sidewalk across the road; a mother was not allowed to visit her handicapped daughter in a settlement. It has been hard for many people, too, because we have now opened up most of our society again, and we must continue to look after the elderly and the vulnerable in particular, but we must also remember that life must be lived, and we must remember self-determination, respect, dignity in life and in death, the dilemma stands. When the corona hit, we weren't good enough prepared. It's as simple as that. It's clear. We lacked the capacity to test, we did not have enough protective equipment, visors, masks, hand alcohol, for many employees in the public sector had to go to work without being able to take care of those they had to take care of, and themselves. We were in a situation, as everyone knows, with an unknown virus, and we saw in a few days the number of infected increases explosively; we saw horrific images from abroad, we looked into serious risks to human life and the economy. I am convinced that the closure of large parts of Denmark in March was right. To be careful when faced with an unknown, unpredictable and deadly virus is right, but today we are in a different and, of course, better situation. The number of new infected people is low, the infection is under control, it is still here and can flare up, but we gained time to fill up the stocks with protective equipment and significantly increase our test capacity. It benefits us now that we see new cases of infected: a nursing home in Hjørring Municipality, a mink farm, a demonstration in Copenhagen, a plane to Copenhagen with infected passengers. Now the authorities have the prerequisites for rapid and precise local intervention, testing, tracing contacts, isolation of those who are infected. But we also look into a fall • a fall where we can risk a new or higher infection. There, as a whole, we will be basing our efforts on a national early warning system, in which, on the basis of objective figures for the spread of infection, the authorities are designing a risk assessment which is linked at the same time to a series of actions that can be quickly launched to reduce the spread of infection. In this way, it will become clear and, I hope, transparent to everyone where we are and what we will do if the infection flares up. Next time we'll be prepared. Throughout Europe, societies are opening up again, but several of the countries we know so well are our European neighbours, our European friends, are hard hit by high costs for the people. Europe has demonstrated our strength in many ways. We have decided historically large aid packages, more than 4 000 billion. kr., support from the EU budget and more. Everyone in Europe can be proud of these decisions. The solidarity that has been shown can be welcomed as Danes and as Europeans. We have now seriously started discussions on the EU's next budget and on the next stage of economic recovery. The government's approach will be both solidarity and responsibility. It matters that Europe is able to provide joint responses to common challenges. That is why the government also supports the idea of a European Recovery Fund. It is vital that all countries rise quickly; it is important for the people, it is also important for Danish exports, and it is important for Europe's position in a world where we need our continent to remain strong, both in terms of security policy, trade, the international world community and the need for common rules of play and, moreover, in terms of the green transition. But, of course, there must also be money to invest in welfare and in the green transition at home, including in 5 and 10 years' time. Therefore, from the Danish side, we will fight for a modern budget with a focus on climate, digitalisation and migration. If we, together in Europe, dare to modernise by, for example: To cut back on the old-fashioned agricultural aid and by targeting the Structural Funds to the least-favoured regions, we do not need the very large budget proposed by the Commission. The budget we are debating lasts seven years into the future. It must also make Europe look forward. Denmark is also fighting for the economic recovery in Europe to turn green. Europe must take the lead in the climate struggle. What was important before corona is important after corona, and the government's European political priorities remain. This year it is 75 years since World War II ended. The post-war era taught us the value of international solidarity and cooperation. European cooperation rose from the ashes of war; Europe is shaped in many ways by crises. This time, we must ensure that we come out of the crisis stronger than anyone else in Europe needs. The last few months have shown much about Denmark; our community and our community mind, everything we Danes can do when we stand together. I also believe that the crisis has taught us something about ourselves as human beings; a new thoughtfulness, a gratitude for all that we may have taken for granted. I will conclude my speech today with a few words about a part of our society that is the nerve to understand ourselves and our world; art and culture. When libraries, theatres, museums, cinemas, concert halls, high schools closed, many of us discovered how much we missed them. The culture shut down when we needed it most, but Danish cultural life found new ways. We have seen this before in times of crisis. Last month we celebrated the 75th anniversary of Denmark's liberation. During the occupation it was very much in the songs, in the literature, that the Danes found comfort and courage. This has also been the case during Corona; morning songs on TV and at home in the living rooms • The Højskole songbook appeared on the bestseller list • Operating concerts and films, concerts in front of nursing homes, theater online. The list is long. I think many of us need the art and the culture to plant a hope when it looks bad, and when we miss it also to help us understand life and ourselves as people and to pick up our experiences and help us move forward. Everything that's happened in this spring can in many ways remind you of a novel or a movie. Works will be done about the corona. The first ones have actually already arrived. Art explores the world and makes our world bigger. I think many of us have gained an increased awareness of how important Danish cultural life is. We must take this with us now that theaters, cinemas, museums and libraries are fortunately open again. After all, a country is not only built on stone, but even more on the sum of our common thoughts, reflections and spirit. What we have experienced together is historic. What we have done together is historic. This time will be remembered by generations after us. The world after corona has changed, but our values are more firmly established than ever before. Our community is strengthened. We stood together to keep our distance. We showed community mind. And now we must stand together for our common future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622093852	Thank you, Prime Minister. As I said at the outset, there is no possibility of short comments now, but the Prime Minister will come back and respond to the debate we are going to have. So, those who have pushed in, please press out. We are now embarking on the debate between the rapporteurs of the parties. It is the case that there are ten minutes of rapporteur speech and then 45 minutes for short remarks. We have chosen to do so in such a way as to have brief comments from one's place, but we ask that we still take account of and show a little distance, etc., as we normally do. The first rapporteur is Mr. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622093931	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his speech. There has been a political year of the more extraordinary since the parliamentary elections. The backdrop today is unusual, and much has changed. But fortunately we also see a more normal everyday life returning: older people who can see their loved ones again; children who return to the football field; students who have jumped out and adorned the city image with their white hats. One of the things that has helped create a community and unite us here during the epidemic is the joint song of DR with Phillip Faber. Our Danish song treasure is undoubtedly very large, and one of my favorite songs from there found both their way to TV and was also sung at Vojens Gymnastics and Sports Afterschool on the day I visited it shortly after the students could return to school. It is Per Krøis Kjærsgaard's fine song about the line dancer who is about to step out into the world, written for a confirmation. It can also be used for new students. It is an excellent song about the dance in life for the young person and very much about the human being in the community to be one, but one among, as it is called in the song. Among other things: This is how we have sung together, each sung on Benny Andersen and Thøger Larsen, Halfdan Rasmussen and all the others. We must remember that there is still someone for whom the dance of life after corona has to wait or happens with scared mines. The insecurity is still there for lung patients, chronicians and the elderly, vulnerable citizens. You're not alone, we sang to them and to each other when we gathered and sang with television as our new digital public service campfire. For the vast majority, the corona has also changed on the course of everyday life, influenced the events we had looked forward to, the round birthday, the summer festival, the wedding, the reunion party or the backpacker tour of the Sabbath year. All of Denmark has had to adapt, follow guidelines, be creative and flexible and help, and by a joint effort we have managed the epidemic so far in a way that we can be very proud of as a country with distinct social minds. The government, the Folketing and the entire Danish population have had to dance on a thin line in recent months. Together we have had to keep our balance, ensure that our health services do not collapse, save lives, ensure that the spread of infection does not knock the bottom out of the economy and, on the other hand, do what we can to enable people to live their lives as normal as the corona virus allows. We're still on the line. The virus is still here, and the balance still needs to be maintained. But we are in a far better place today than we dared to hope when we saw the pictures from northern Italy, and when the infection spread explosively in Denmark at the beginning of March. We were heading towards completely unsustainable levels of infection when the government and the Folketing took action. It cannot be stressed enough how important it was that we in Denmark acted quickly and decisively and that we had broken the chains of infection, and we could not have done so without the amazing attitude with which the Danes have gone to the epidemic. The strength of the common will to stand together to follow guidelines, to look after the weakest and to do things in new ways has proved so good during the epidemic and has meant that we have been able to keep the balance all the way up until now. We can more and more get normality back, be ourselves again, because we were not ourselves enough. As a society and as a public community, I think we will actually go out of the epidemic stronger. We have shown a clear commitment to each other and, I would say, gained even stronger unity than before the crisis struck. We need to build on that. The social mind that has influenced our handling of corona must also be the guiding star of our recovery. Recovery must be effective, it must be fair, it must be common, it must be green and it must be responsible. Social democracy and the parties with which agreements have been made many times in recent weeks are doing so in a wiser and fairer way than in recent political history, I would argue. Had the Left and Liberal Alliance still led the country, we would probably be discussing whether the increases in retirement age should be greater and come something faster; whether the benefits were not too high; how it went with the regions that had to deal with corona while we were winding them up; how deep education and other areas of common welfare should be cut; how much top tax should be reduced. And has anyone seen the key to the closet with Anders Samuelsen's treasure cups? Where would we have been in the green transition if the bourgeois majority had continued a year ago? When the Left ruled the Climate Ministry, the chairman of the Climate Council was fired. Denmark was today's fossil at the UN climate summit, and national targets for carbon phasing out and CO2 were dropped. This time the direction is different. It makes a difference that there were elections a year ago, that we got a new majority and a new government. Aid packages and wage compensation have kept thousands at work. We help young people by creating more internships and increasing participation in the programmes. The period of benefit has been extended. We invest in continuing training and retraining for the benefit of employees and companies, stimulate private consumption with funds and discounts sent out widely in society, improve housing stock with historically large investments in the general sector, help small and large companies, most recently with more measures for the benefit of export companies, and much more. Thank you for your cooperation with Parliament's parties on the many good agreements that lie behind these actions over the last few months. The way out of the crisis must be green. Investment must speed up the green transition, such as: the agreement of 30 billion. kr. for green renovations of the general housing. There are major changes in climate policy. Once it was called green realism, and it stood on dreary ambitions. Now we have moved on to a series of negotiations to implement perhaps the most ambitious climate legislation in the world, most recently with the agreement concluded last night. The Climate Act was concluded by a broad majority here in the Danish Parliament with a commitment to achieve the target of 70 percent greenhouse gas reduction by 2030. We invest in green research, create energy islands, create a green future fund, extract climate-laden farmland, phase out the oil pine and much more. Most recently, a broad majority has concluded the first partial agreement on an overall climate action plan for a more green waste sector and thus, last night, a further comprehensive agreement. This has all required green leadership and strong cooperation between the parties. There's still a lot of work ahead of us. We are on the right track, and I wonder if we are going to be much longer than if there were still a Liberal at the end of the climate negotiations. Following the summer holidays, proposals for a new right to early retirement for the Danes who have had the longest and most laborious working life, so that with dignity and health you can enjoy your old age with grandchildren, association life and leisure interests. This is all part of the new and fairer direction that the government has set before the crisis and from the first day in the ministerial offices, where we put the community and welfare first. With the Finance Act we introduced a thousand more nurses, strengthened psychiatry, the abolition of the re-priority contribution to education, and then we made solid agreements on the economy of municipalities and regions for the benefit of, among other things, the municipalities and regions. elderly and patients. There will be better standards in the country's kindergartens and nurseries, more teachers in the country's primary schools for the benefit of children and to break the fundamental injustice, it is that there are too many children who do not have a fair chance in life. A new system of compensation, which creates better balance and a fairer distribution of resources in the near Welfare Denmark, has also been agreed. In the area of taxation: cheating, greed and speculation are directly confronted and faced with more resistance than has long been the case. It is the end of the most expensive quick loans and debt spirals, and there is a clash with residential speculators and, therefore, prioritising a strengthened tax control. Fortunately, we have a government of the people which, during the crisis, has emerged from some of its finest points: constructively working, compromise-seeking, listening. We have seen much less of the quick and easy proposals. Unfortunately, I also sense a little that it is about to slip away again, that the inner Monday coaches pee more forward with process stories and motives to shoot others in the shoes, and that it has become harder to resist the temptations to take cheap points. I can't believe you, for example. is willing to sell decades of responsibility and European political cooperation for a front page of Jyllands-Posten. So let this be an appeal that we stay on track, that we constantly deal with the epidemic and its consequences together, and that in the next parliamentary year we can also let attitudes break, but keep the style of broad agreements for the benefit of Denmark as a fairer and greener welfare society. Denmark and the Danes have shown themselves from their most beautiful side during the corona crisis. We can be proud of ourselves and of each other. Although we are different in many respects, we have shown that we are united in this respect. The balance through corona became a little easier because we could lean on each other. Now the parliamentary season is pouring out. Tomorrow it'll be Sankthan's. • We love our country, • When the light comes forth, • One night it will be summer • I look forward to today's debate and, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, will read out a proposal for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that there is still support for the political direction set out in the understanding paper after the parliamentary elections. Since then, important steps have been taken in a greener and fairer direction. The Folketing will continue to work to strengthen the common welfare. Denmark must be the world's best country to be a child in, there must be more care in health care, one must be able to look forward to a safe and dignified old age, and one must invest in education and research. The Folketing wants to combat inequality and create development and jobs throughout the country. The Folketing must meet the climate objectives, including negotiating a green tax reform. Denmark's environment and biodiversity must be strengthened, among other things. By more wild nature. At the same time, the Danish Parliament calls for broad cooperation to continue to have Denmark health and socio-economically responsible through the pandemic. This includes, among other things: investments in strengthening the welfare society and a green economic recovery in Denmark and the EU.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622095021	Thank you. This will now be part of the further debate. We're gonna start with that now. We have 45 minutes for brief remarks. First, it's Mrs. Inger Løjberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622095030	Thank you. I could hear from the Prime Minister's speech that the Socialist Group is very concerned that we should pursue an immigration policy that takes good care of Denmark, I think she said, and that it is very important that we pursue an immigration policy which, like those who come here, supports democratic values and a democratic way of life. I can only fully agree with that. That is why I am puzzled by some things. That surprises me, for example. a lot, that one chooses to give extra money to unemployed immigrants who can get DKK 2 000. extra tax-free per month. I do not think that is very good care for Denmark if I have to say so, because that means that it is people who do not therefore have an incentive to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622095134	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622095138	The Prime Minister emphasized the same thing that the Social Democratic Party emphasized in the run-up to the elections, namely that we continue to have a firm foreign policy in Denmark. We need to keep track of how this is happening and we want integration to work better. The concrete example drawn by Mrs Inger Løjberg concerns the services commission set up and the temporary allowance introduced in relation to child poverty. And yes, it is because we are concerned that in Denmark there must be fewer children living under the conditions which mean that they are more difficult for many people into adult life. But it is by no means contrary to holding on to a firm foreign policy in Denmark, and it is fully in place. We have also seen in recent months that the influx is going to be even lower than it has been in previous years. So I think it has to be said that things are well under control, and I think we agree with the Left that there should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622095232	Mrs. Inger Løjberg, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622095236	If only it were so well, because the problem is that the government likes to say one, but do something else. We are raising the benefits for foreigners who are not in work, and we saw last week that prayer calls will not be banned. I mean, you give in just as quietly. One will not see to it that there is a different composition of children in the nursery schools and crèches of ghetto areas. You say a lot, but when it comes down to it, we just know the Social Democrats again... then you don't run the tight immigration policy that you went to the polls on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622095310	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622095314	I disagree with Mrs Inger Løjberg in that respect, and I simply do not believe that the Danes out there who may follow here can recognize that picture at all. It has been maintained that we have a strict immigration policy in Denmark, and this sometimes leads to some discussions, including with some parties that normally support the government, but nevertheless that is the case. We want a better student composition, for example. in the public schools, and should it turn out to be a problem with prayer calls, what it has not really been for real yet there has been a single case, and even in Mrs Inger lybberg's time it was something that was intervened against • then we look at it, but we are not there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622095349	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622095353	Thank you. We're gonna stay on the same street a little bit; I don't think that's surprising Mr. Jesper Petersen. We move on to the issue of repatriations in the area of foreigners, because some of what was important before the elections, especially for the Danish People's Party, was that we were focusing on the fact that the people who come to this country are here temporarily and actually coming home to their home countries again. One of the things that has happened in the past parliamentary year here, after there was a change last summer, is that even if you saw in the appeal bodies that you find the Refugee Board that you can send people home to safe areas, for example in Syria, the government stops it so that those people are not sent back to Syria anyway. I'd like to ask Mr. Jesper Petersen, about the practice that the government has exactly in this area, really means that we cannot look forward to sending people back to Syria because it is based on the fact that President Al-Assad is in power in Syria, and as long as he is, people will not be sent back to Syria. In other words, although the Refugee Board arrives at secure areas in Syria to which people can be sent home, this government refuses to do so. - Sir... Jesper Petersen then explain to us when it will be possible to send people back to Syria?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622095458	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622095502	We hold on to wanting to return when it is possible, and that will continue to happen. That is what should be the aim of the policy, that you have temporary protection when you are a refugee, just as the ambition to have a new and fair and humane asylum system, as the Prime Minister mentioned again, is a continuing ambition for the government and something that is being worked hard on. So, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl can be fully assured that those parts of the foreign policy also stand firm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622095528	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622095532	Yeah, but that's just not really what I asked. The State Minster mentioned what happened in 2015. At that time quite a lot of people came to Denmark, among others. from Syria. We want people to return to Syria again and then it is estimated in the appeal bodies that this is actually possible; there are places in Syria that are safe enough for people to return. Then the government says they shouldn't, because as long as President Al-Assad is in power, they shouldn't be sent back. And then I just ask: will this mean that as long as that man is in power, we will not be able to send people back to Syria? Is there any indication that he is not in power for many years yet? Then the conclusion becomes that the Social Democrats say that those people do not come back to Syria, and then they grow firmly in Denmark. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622095606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622095610	Well, sir. As I have said, Kristian Thulesen Dahl can be absolutely certain that we continue to believe that temporary protection should be provided, and that is not the expression of a change in any policy in the matter which Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl pulls forward here. It is a question of being able to do so with good sense, and hopefully that day will come when it can be done for the refugees mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622095632	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622095638	Thank you and thank you for your speech, which, I think, really put your finger on the fact that a new direction has been set for Denmark. Maybe you couldn't tell on those questions, sir. Jesper Petersen has just been through where you somehow still drive in the same old groove. But one of the elements in the new direction is that we are now standing here and having agreed energy islands instead of expulsion lakes, and that, in my opinion, is something more perspective. I am very pleased with the agreement we made yesterday: a green tax reform that we can look forward to. It is surely not wrong to say that the Socialists may not have had so much opportunity to speak warmly about the prospects of a green tax reform yet, and that is why I would just like to give Mr Giscard d'Estaing the floor. Jesper Petersen's chance. So, what is the best thing about the green tax reform in the socialist optics? Maybe there's just a little something to catch up with there, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622095731	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622095736	Well, thank you very much for that question, sir. Morten Østergaard. In other words, there is a need, and I think this has been clear for everyone for a long time, to change fiscal conditions and to have a look at how the economy and also revenue develop in line with the green transition, when it is hoped that less oil and gas and other things from which we now have revenue will be consumed. The cars are another example, where there is a huge task to be done when it comes to changing car taxation. The positive: I think we are going to live in a country that is better and cleaner to live in. We have been able to boast that we are reducing CO2 then I would warn against the fact that we think that this is the case with a snap, and there are also quite a lot of considerations in the agreement that need to be taken into account in this context. But let's work on it together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622095832	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622095835	Yeah, let's do it. It must be greener to be a Dane. I also noticed that the Prime Minister made a great deal of effort to think now about both those who have become unemployed and those who are at risk of doing so when the compensation for wages expires and that we need to think about how we spend the money wisely and most responsibly in the future. There is therefore, unfortunately, a consequence of previous decisions which means that some of those who are affected by unemployment, if they live in a vulnerable residential area, also risk losing their homes, i.e. if there are more residential areas on the list of the most affected residential areas. And I would just like to ask: is it fair, in the opinion of the Socialists, that people should lose their jobs first and then their homes then, and is it a wise way to spend the money, that those homes should be demolished?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622095921	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622095923	That, sir. Morten Østergaard wants to get into this, is a discussion about the whole purpose we have of getting a more mixed housing mix in Denmark and therefore also the agreement that is, to reduce larger family homes in these areas. And what I think is important to be said, both in response to Mr. Morten Østergaard's question, but also to those who listen, is that when you draw up a new list later in the year of which residential areas can be said to be the most vulnerable, the consequences of corona are not yet included in the inventory. We shall only be able to see it later, and if there is a need to take up this discussion again, we must do so. But you will not be able to see it at Christmas; no one will be afraid at that time to know that their residential area will be demolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622100005	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622100007	Thank you for your speech, and thank you for your good year of cooperation. It's been nice to be a folk socialist. We have made many good arrangements for our day institutions, for our primary schools, for our health care, green agreements. But we must not rest on the laurels, nor must we be haughty, so we must move on. Once upon a time, there was a slogan. And what we can see is that we need to introduce minimum standards more quickly. The Corona crisis has shown how well it works when there are few children for a number of adults so that children can be seen and heard. We are not in line with the 70-percent objective. More action plans must continue to be made in the area of climate change. We need to invest in education, in our health care. Much still needs to be done. We are in a difficult economic situation, so if there is to be money for all these many things, everyone has to contribute. Some of those who don't contribute, some of those who have actually pulled money out of the market, are after all tech giants like Apple, Amazon, Facebook. The government has previously believed that tech giants should also contribute to Danish welfare and green conversion. Is that still the government's position?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622100118	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622100119	There's more to it than that, sir. Jacob Mark's speech, and first I would like to repeat the receipt. I really think we have achieved many good things, and I tried to reach just some of them in my speech and many more must follow in the next parliamentary years. After all, one of the very significant prints that have already been made is the agreement to introduce minimum standards. I think that is also important for many in relation to the election campaign that was and the massive focus that was on that issue. It has been seen that we needed to raise the quality significantly in our day care institutions. So we have made an agreement on this and it will be phased in over the coming years. This is one of the very striking prints I am really happy about, and it is a matter that the SF also has the honour of having really marked itself on for a long time. Finally, sir. Jacob Mark also mentioned this thing with the tech giants. I fully agree that they continue to pay far too little tax and should contribute more to the community in Denmark and other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622100221	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622100223	I am pleased about that, because with the costs that lie ahead and the important things we have to do together, strengthen our welfare, invest more in education, promote the green transition, we will need some of those who earn the most and pay the very least, to pay more to our community. After all, the Social Democrats have said in the past that we want to take the lead in European cooperation. I would like to hear from the rapporteur when this has happened or whether it is going to happen. If not, the government would be said to go alone and like France itself introduce a turnover tax for tech giants. What's the status, and what's the government's policy in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622100259	Thank you. Jesper Petersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622100301	I do not think anyone in the international cooperation that Denmark is involved in is in any doubt that we attach great importance to the issue of combating tax havens and countering international tax speculation. This is also reflected in our domestic policy, where there is therefore a job to apply. Well, there are some great tax auditors out there, so it's just writing to the tax minister. We need more people to make sure that the tax is paid. And right now the government is very active in international contexts to get a tax on the tech giants as well. The work is initially in the OECD, and it may come in other forums, but that is where it is going right now and where it would be best to get a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622100342	Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622100344	Thank you. I am very pleased that the Socialist rapporteur addressed the issue of raising the retirement age. As you know, the Social Democratic Party has an agreement with the bourgeois and the Radicals that this autumn's retirement age should be raised to 69 years. This is a legislative proposal that will be put forward, and I would like to ask: is it not both foolish and short-sighted to raise the retirement age in a situation where unemployment is huge and will explode further in the autumn? Would it not be both solidarity and common sense if the elderly in the labour market were allowed to retire? Isn't 68 years enough? Then we could make room for all the young people who, as the Prime Minister said in his speech, will find it very difficult to enter the labour market and who are at risk of becoming long-term unemployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622100437	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622100439	I know, of course, that our parties share the view that in Denmark there are still groups which have very hard working lives, very long working lives, and there is a need to do more for them. Social democracy stands by the agreement made in 2006 and it is of course very crucial for the whole coherence and sustainability of the Danish economy. But I think that this is an important discussion that Mrs Jette Gottlieb is raising. Because at the time of the conclusion of that agreement and when the Social Democratic Party was involved in doing so, the post-retirement wage continued to exist. It does not exist anymore, and it simply leaves some groups who really needed it there, with a less dignified old age, so that when they can leave they do not have the same healthy period with their grandchildren and leisure interests etc. as I mentioned. And this underlines the need to introduce an early right of withdrawal, which we will be presenting after the summer recess, and which I really hope we can get a majority in favour of here in the Folketing, and that we will not leave these people behind.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622100548	Thank you. Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622100550	I hear, of course, that a solution will be presented to Arne in the autumn. I can understand that, but it's not going to happen anyway. 'Cause I'm talking more generally, and I'm talking about due diligence, and I'm talking about a world that's changed. Wouldn't it be a very good idea to return to that agreement and then drop making that increase to 69 years? And now I ask again and very precisely, and I expect that the whole trade union movement and all the employees will listen here: do you intend to vote in favour of an increase to 69 years of retirement age?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622100622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622100623	I think I replied to that already when I had the floor a moment ago, and I would like to do it again: yes, the Social Democratic Party will, and of course we stand by that agreement, and it is extremely important for the sustainability of the Danish economy. But with the other hand we must, of course, introduce a new right to early retirement and ensure that those who have the longest and hardest working lives have a more dignified old age. At the same time, of course, there are a number of other measures, but we still believe that this reform must be implemented. Those who owe me, I think, are over here, where, after the welfare settlement had been concluded, it was a prerequisite in Denmark that the post-retirement pay existed. It does not do that anymore, and we must make that right.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622100704	Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622100706	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I have prepared a document for today's debate. It's very easy to understand. It's just the parties of the Folketing and how many seats they have. And that's why it's not gonna be so surprising what I'm gonna ask you. It is the case that Jyllands-Posten in an excellent way, among other things. has covered the consequences of the right decision to pay the holiday money, which we agreed on last Sunday. We have done so because we now need to get the economy going. Something has to happen, people have to swing the map, there are thousands of jobs if people spend the money. 100,000 people will then go straight to the top tax if they get their holiday money by 2020. It's not people who usually pay top taxes. I don't have to give a lecture here that I don't think we should have a top tax at all. Let it go. But 100,000 people have to pay top taxes. We risk these people just leaving the money behind, and then they won't come out for consumption. I understand a little that there are some people on the pedestrian street in Kolding and elsewhere who are not quite keen on them solving this problem, but could the Social Democrat rapporteur reveal whether they have thought about solving that problem for the 100,000 new top tax payers?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622100818	Then it's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622100819	When Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen thus makes the count of mandates, he is also in the process of saying what parliamentarianism is like in Denmark. But, you know, I'm being asked about our position, and we can talk about a lot of things. But, you know, the top tax limit has already been raised once this year. And if these people we're talking about had got their holiday money instead of being frozen, they'd have been above the top tax limit. And it is a prerequisite under the agreement that the money that has been paid out would be taxable. So there's a big surprise here I can't really see. The mandates which can be seen there have also known that these funds were taxable. And that does not change the fact that an even very large amount of money is going to be spent, and I hope people will use that to set the wheels in Denmark on restaurants, museums and bookstores and in the summer country at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622100925	Then it's mr. Søren Pape. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622100926	Some of the good things about this are that it shows how many ordinary people are actually paying top taxes in this country. And now even more ordinary people are going to do it by 2020. The state will benefit from sending out all these holiday money. That, of course, must be taxed. Of course. That makes sense, and I do not want to question it. But does Mr. Jesper Petersen says that the 100,000 people who don't usually pay top tax, but all of a sudden have to do it by 2020, so just want to take them out and use them? Or will they say: Should we not leave them in our account?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622101005	Jesper Petersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622101006	It is, of course, a freedom of choice that they want, that is to say they can decide for themselves whether they want it. I think, sir. Søren Pape gets it set up as if there are some who are actually losing something on the agreement that has been made so that someone will lose on that we pay the holiday money. But there is no question of that at all. How was it, sir? Lars Løkke formulated it? That some would get less more than that wasn't it? And that is also the case here. And then I'm gonna have to arrest that sir. Søren Pape says there will be more top tax payers. Yes, it can be specific here because you are taxed by some money you would otherwise have been given that has then been frozen. But there will be fewer top tax payers in Denmark because the border is constantly being raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622101048	That brings us to the end of speaking time. Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622101051	Thank you. Social democracy has won the government by promising the Danes that the problem of immigration policy would be solved from the bottom up. Will the rapporteur tell me and the rest of Denmark when they intend to tackle it? What has happened over the past year is that foreign policy has been relaxed. Together with the Left and the Radical Left, a number of concessions have been introduced which have weakened the policy of aliens which was chosen to maintain. The benefits for foreigners and immigrants have been increased, the requirements for income support for foreigners have been relaxed, the residence permit has been promised to migrants instead of sending them home as long as they have just been here for two years, and the user fee has been removed from Danish education. So when does the Social Democratic Party intend to start to throw out the foreigners who commit crime, to make sure that foreigners here in Denmark support themselves, and to start to ensure that those who should have been here temporarily are also sent home?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622101151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622101152	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund for her question. And I also think, after a year has passed, that I will sign up to the fact that New Citizens have so actively signed up to many of the agreements that have been made in recent weeks, and they have been constructive, although we also look at many things differently. This is probably one of the points on which we disagree, at least in the diagnosis of how things stand here after a year, because I think that the government has held on to it, yes, tight immigration policy, as we have said we would, on several points. There, too, we are going to have to strengthen the integration of those who are here, and we are going to reduce the possibility, for example. to receive funding for mosques in Denmark from people we don't think should fund them here. We can tackle all sorts of things and deal with these issues and thus stick to a firm foreign policy in Denmark. I believe that we do, and I believe that most of the citizens who follow out there will agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622101254	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622101256	The Socialist rapporteur does not run out of words but may run out of credibility in foreign policy. I find it very difficult to understand how one can stand and still believe that one has credibility in this area, when one has relaxed in a number of areas, and when one can see that the criminal gangs are still shooting in the streets, when one can see that there are still more young people with a non-Western background who believe that religious laws should be above Danish adopted legislation, and when we see a social democracy that is now on the wrong side when we talk about banning prayer calls in Denmark. How can one think that one can maintain the credibility of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622101335	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622101336	The policy itself in relation to what is required to come to Denmark is that we need temporary protection and that we are going for a fair and humane new asylum system. But the things that Mrs Pernille Vermund mentions, which are problems of integration, where you can also have a different view of social control, freedom of expression and other things in some environments in Denmark, we must combat that, and we must together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622101410	Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622101411	Thank you. Sir. Jesper Petersen speaks quite finely and graphically of the fact that you have to dance the difficult dance on the line and keep your balance, otherwise you risk crashing straight into the abyss, and that gives you real memories of the 1970s, where Social Democracy ruled Denmark directly into the economic abyss. One of the major mistakes that were made at the time was to introduce the early retirement. It was thought that removing older people from the labour market would give young people a job. It did not happen, it just pulled healthy people out of the labour market. Subsequently, decades had to be spent rolling back the early retirement scheme because it was expensive and made for many healthy people not available for the labour market. Nevertheless, there is some indication that the Social Democratic Party will use this crisis to introduce a similar early retirement scheme. I just have to get the history straight. Mr. Jesper Petersen and the Social Democratic Party, that the work of the Social Democratic Party over the last two decades of rollback was a mistake and that we should not have rolled back the after-wage?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622101509	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622101510	We believe that there should be a right to a dignified withdrawal which does not exist today. After all, it was not the starting point of the Social Democratic Party that the post-retirement salary was due to disappear at the time. It is now. And there are some other prerequisites for our economic policy and for the sustainability there. We are not proposing a new contribution-based early retirement scheme to be reinstated. It has de facto been abolished with parties in Mr. Alex Vanopslagh's side of the Assembly Hall as banner leaders. And this is not a crisis policy. We thought that was missing in Denmark, whether there was corona or not, because there are so many who do not get the old age they deserve. I really like sir. Alex Vanopslagh's focus on responsibility, but I think it's a discussion you have to take up at some of those lunch meetings you have inside the bourgeois block. I mean, proposing 54 billion. kr. VAT reductions with no sensible effect are not wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622101618	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622101620	I would remind my blue colleagues that we should be better at saying no to the policy of social democracy, including the policy of handing out thousands of kroner notes to all Danes who are not in work. I'll mention that to both Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen and Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr If you play your tune, it's not always responsible. But the question is: is it responsible to reinstate a system similar to that of early retirement? Is it responsible to increase permanent public expenditure and to use it to draw, among other things, Healthy People Out of the Labour Market? - Sir... Jesper Petersen does not explain what makes it financially responsible, following a crisis, to ensure that fewer people are available for the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622101653	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622101654	It would not be responsible if such proposals were not financed. That is also what the Prime Minister is calling for in his interview in Berlingske today. The speed blindness that is emerging, such as: is expressed by this VAT proposal, which no one really believes has any time on land, perhaps the Left itself, is not sensible. But of course we have to put forward a fully funded proposal and we simply think it is part of getting a fairer Denmark to introduce this right to early retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622101728	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622101728-2	Thank you very much. According to the Danish Social Advisor Association, the closure of the employment system in the Corona crisis has provided a free space where social workers have been able to use their professional skills in a way that has produced results. We have gone from a very process-driven procedure to a situation during the corona crisis, where it was the individual social worker who assessed what was best for the individual citizen. It has produced human results and created development in the lives of the citizens. That is what the chairman of the Danish Social Advisor Association, Mads Bilstrup, says. What are the thoughts of the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622101802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622101803	This confirms to me that we have an employment system that needs to have a thorough talk about how to work and how to work in the future. This is probably one of the areas where experience has been gained in recent months, which we can draw into the work of changing the governance of the public sector on a number of points, and not least employment is one of those where legislation is extremely complicated and very comprehensive. And can you use some of the good experiences that Mr. Torsten Gejl points out, so it will certainly be a step forward both for the employees who are in the task, but also for the people it is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622101845	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622101846	Should I understand that if it turns out that it is actually wiser to base the employment system on trust rather than on coercion and control in terms of getting people on their feet and in terms of getting people into work, then would the rapporteur consider that he would like to be involved in doing so?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622101902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622101902-2	I do not think that we should stop having clear obligations for people who are unemployed or on unemployment benefits: that we are available for the labour market, that we are making an effort ourselves and that there may be some demands for one in return for the help we receive. However, in the work of helping the unemployed to return to the labour market, I believe that we must be able to draw some good lessons from how this has been in recent weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622101931	Then it's Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622101933	Thank you. After all, the Socialist rapporteur spent a good deal of his speaking time asking a number of exciting questions about the Left, but I still think there was one that the rapporteur forgot: where had Denmark stood financially when we were hit by the corona crisis, if not changing Left governments for many years had carried out a large number of economic reforms that have kept their hands on the Danish economy and made us stand with a strong economy when the Corona crisis hit? These are all the reforms, large parts of them, which the Social Democratic Party has poured down the board and opposed, but which today benefit from, and which are the whole reason why we have been able to afford to make the many relief packages in Denmark that have been able to hold hands under Danish jobs. Against this background, my question to the Socialist rapporteur is simply: if you can see in the light of hindsight that it was wise for some others to make some decisions that you did not take responsibility for, but where you would only be involved in spending the money, is it so financially responsible in a major crisis, the biggest since the Second World War, to reinstate a very expensive early retirement scheme in which healthy people are withdrawn from the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622102043	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622102044	Mrs Sophie Løhde is right in saying that Denmark stood in a strong place, also in a stronger place than many other countries. There have been exceptionally large revenues, including unexpectedly large income from pension taxation in recent years, which means that we have even lower the debt. That's fine. However, I simply do not think that the Left can take a patent in this way. In other words, there are many agreements, including those on which we agree, and we can hopefully continue to have Denmark on a responsible economic path. I simply believe that Mrs Sophie Løhde has put the question to the wrong party and has to go a little further into the series of speeches before it has to come forward. But what Mrs Sophie Løhde is really interested in is the question of early retirement, and I think that many Danes are interested in that too. Just as it is today, there is a very large group, for example. 3F members and among the NNF members in slaughterhouses who are no longer on the labour market when retirement age comes because they simply cannot live up to that working life. So to help those people who have had the longest and hardest working lives, the Left of all should help to take care of themselves, because they would then actively remove the post-retirement wage. I think you should.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622102159	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Sophie Løhde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622102200	I fully agree that it was Mrs Mette Frederiksen who, as Minister for Employment, tabled the bill to abolish what was it, the early retirement scheme and the unemployment benefit reform. But I just didn't know that Social Democracy had suddenly become a supporter of it. As I know, the Social Democrats have voted against much of the economic reforms that have made us today have a strong economy. That's just why I'm asking. Because it is not unthinkable that at some point Denmark might again be hit by a crisis, and the prerequisite for us to be well equipped again is that today's politicians take responsibility for future generations. That is why I ask: is it financially responsible in a major economic crisis to withdraw healthy people from the labour market and instead send them on an expensive early retirement scheme? Everyone agrees that the worn out shouldn't work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622102245	Thank you. Then we'll get answers. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622102250	It is absolutely both responsible and fair to ensure that people who have had the longest and hardest working lives can have some good years in old age with their grandchildren. That's it. It will be presented as a fully funded proposal on the other side of the summer holiday. However, I may think that if the Left is concerned with having the self-image of being financially responsible, it owes some slightly better explanations to the massive outbid we have seen in the Finance Committee, where billions and billions have been added to constantly once files have been adopted. To call it responsible to come up with a 54 billion. kr. In fact, expensive VAT proposals, which are incredibly ineffective, may not be so responsible at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622102326	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622102328	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Jesper Petersen for the speech. Recently, the government distributed mild gifts to the Danish population. Folkepensioners could get 1,000 DKK, but what we in the Danish People's Party thought was worse was that our refugees in Denmark should also have 1,000 DKK. - Sir... Jesper Petersen explains how the Social Democrats here in the Danish Parliament can reasonably say that Denmark's folk pensioners are to be equated with random refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622102401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622102403	I'd say so too, sir. Peter Skaarup's interpretation of how conditions are in Denmark. It's not like that, for example. is about pensions, etc. But right here, it's all about making a fiscal approach that means that we're gonna get the economy in Denmark going. We're gonna get the consumption going. And yes, it will be all citizens who benefit from it. Some with holiday money, others know that there is this payout of 1,000 DKK. And no matter who you are, how long you've been here, what ethnicity you have, we would urge you to put that money into circulation, go to restaurants, stay in hotels, go to museums and all sorts of other things and help boost the economy. And those who need that turnover, I do not think, distinguish between the type of citizen that comes with the extra turnover. I think they are just happy that it is coming, and that is the purpose of the agreement that has been reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622102456	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622102457	Well, that's what Mr. Jesper Petersen says, is very good, that we need to get the economy going, that we need to spend some more money in the shops. But that is not the answer to the question I asked. I asked the question: do the Socialists really think it is right that we should equate the country's national pensioners with random refugees who have come to Denmark and who, moreover, we cannot even send back, which Mr. Jesper Petersen acknowledged in his reply to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl? Does the Social Democrats think it is right that we should equate Denmark's folk pensioners with refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622102531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622102532	But that is not the picture of what the pension system is like in Denmark either, and Mr. Peter Skaarup also very well. So, in relation to the expression of the image that is being given there, I simply do not think it is right that we should turn the discussion over to something other than what it is really about. This is not a question of retirement; it is not a question of needing pensioners to whom we say: we will solve your a little tight economy by having 1,000 DKK. extra. That's not what this is about. It's about getting the economy going, getting the consumption going, and we're gonna need all Danes for that, no matter how long they've been here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622102607	Thank you. There is very little talk in the back, which prevents some of those who would like to take part in the debate altogether from hearing it, so I would ask you to keep your voice down, Mr President. Karsten Hønge. Then we move on to Mr. Morten Dahlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622102623	Thank you. We are in a historic economic crisis. Hundreds of thousands have been sent home on pay compensation. More than 40,000 people have come to work, received a note of fire, and then went home. Nevertheless, the Socialists are stubbornly sticking to the plan to send healthy people into retirement and to raise benefits for unemployed immigrants. That is why my question to the Socialist rapporteur is this: is it really in the economic situation we are facing now to have complete financial responsibility to have an absence of plans to create more jobs, so that more people will have to get up in the morning and go to work, and instead of raising benefits and sending healthy people into retirement?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622102707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622102708	I would simply recommend Mr. Morten Dahlin to go out and keep that post in a slaughterhouse. You can also go to the neighboring company, where you have something heavy and quickly repeated work, and keep it one more time. I simply think that we will then not do it any more. I believe that the Left made a huge failure when, without putting anything else in place, they abolished the post-retirement pay and since • you, who are talking about financial responsibility today, failed to finance the senior pension agreement that we then had to pick up because there was no funding for it. It comes and, in addition to that, it will be more fun for Morten Dahlin to go to the slaughterhouse if the Left pulls itself together to actually help those people who have the hardest and longest working life. This is a chance to be fully funded later in the parliamentary year. I can assure you, sir. Morten Dahlin with you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622102804	Sir. Morten Dahlin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622102805	So let's get to the part that Mr. Jesper Petersen is talking about here: full funding. As I have said, we are in an economic crisis, which has not been seen since the Second World War, and the Social Democrats will present a billion-dollar proposal, fully funded. Will Mr. Jesper Petersen so comfort me and all the many Danes who rise up in the morning and go to work in private companies, with that funding of course will not contain tax increases that kill growth and are married to Danish jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622102836	Sir. Jesper Petersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622102838	Of course, the government will take into account the economic situation we are in. That is what we want to do in what is at stake in economic policy and the conclusion of a financial agreement and so on. A fully funded proposal will be presented. You will see exactly what is going on on the other side of the summer holiday and what the funding is like. That would basically be solidarity funding, but of course it would be in line with the current situation. Here the difference is that we are actually financing our proposal. The Left could do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622102909	Sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622102916	Thank you. Again today, outside the main stairs, there is a consent guard who is fighting for a new rape law based on consent. The fairness of the current rape legislation and now I quote a unanimous Criminal Code Council from February can be assessed on the basis of the sexual right to self-determination discussed. After all, it is quite wild that by 2020 we may have doubts as to whether the sexual right exists. A bill of consent is therefore included in the legislative programme for the parliamentary year, which is now going on, and was maintained by the government in the programme, although a great deal of legislation was proposed by corona. But as you can see, nothing really happened. It is in spite of the fact that between 5 000 and 20 thousand people are raped or tried every year. On the other hand, an emergency law has been drawn up for 12 drunks. That is why the Radical Left will have just stated: do the Socialists support a consent law without exceptions, and how full inaction is, of course, not consent?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622103022	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622103024	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Hegaard himself is involved in the negotiations that are taking place on this initiative, and I believe that the political differences there are not really really existing. But there's Mr. Knox. Kristian Hegaard himself is also a lawyer who sometimes has difficulties with this type of proposal, and therefore it takes some time to negotiate it in place. I look forward to voting through it, and I am convinced that we will be able to do so, and make significant progress in the whole area of rape in Denmark, because I agree with Mr Tugendhat. Kristian Hegaard in that it is a serious problem and we need a revision of that law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622103107	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622103110	I am pleased to hear that there are non-existent differences, because that just means: then let us get started. So what are we really waiting for? So let us move as quickly as possible. That is why I think it is a matter of form to establish today whether the Socialists can say whether they support a consent law without exceptions and where full inaction is, of course, not consent.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622103134	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622103135	As I said before, sir. Kristian Hegaard involved in the negotiations himself, and I think it is best that they are taken with the Minister of Justice and the other rapporteurs, instead of continuing them here, but I would just like to say politically that we fully agree that we need a change, modernisation and a strong improvement in the legislation in this area. I'm convinced we're gonna get that, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622103156	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622103203	Thank you. Over the past many months, the government has dealt with the Corona crisis with great vigour and foresight. However, a crisis that we have not yet dealt with with just about as much force and foresight, and which, unfortunately, was not mentioned in many words either in the speech of the rapporteur or the Prime Minister, is nature's crisis: the biodiversity crisis. Nature is in bad shape, species are in decline, and if we are going to solve this crisis, we must give nature much more space and more rights. In the SF we think that one of the best ways to do this is to give nature its own law, and that is not a completely new and controversial proposal, because a broad majority in the Folketing has recently given the climate its own law. And that is why I have to hear whether the Social Democracy will also help to create a biodiversity law so that we can safeguard the rights of nature and ensure that in future we give nature the space it needs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622103301	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622103303	Actually, I think it also found its way to the speech. There were many things I would have liked to have included in it, but I think it is a good subject to be taken up here, and indeed a subject which has filled a great deal in this parliamentary year and considerably more than for many years. Just recently an agreement has been reached, and of course SF is part of it, where there will be more untouched forest, where farmland has been set aside, which will become two new natural parks. And we're going to work further along that path, and I'm sure also in cooperation with SF. At Marienborg, a greater effort was set in motion to involve stakeholders in the whole area, and I understand that there are quite a lot of good ideas and suggestions, and they will need to be picked up and then move the development forward so that we can ensure a rich biodiversity in Denmark in the coming parliamentary year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622103356	Here you go, Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622103359	It is wonderful that the Social Democrats are just as interested in doing something for nature as we are in the SF. However, we have said many times before that we wanted to save nature, and international targets have been set to ensure better biodiversity for both 2010 and 2020, which we have not achieved because the countries have not committed themselves. Does the Social Democrats not agree that one of the best ways we can commit ourselves here in Denmark is by law?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622103426	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622103426-2	First of all, I would like to arrest what is involved in the fact that it is called a lot of talk. It is true that this has been the case over the years, but I think that Mrs Valentina Berthelsen is doing herself and the cooperation we have had a little bit wrong when it comes to mentioning it less highly than I really think it deserves, because there has actually been some really great progress here and there will be more. The concrete solution will then be discussed in the coming parliamentary year, and I am sure also with Mrs Valentina Berthelsen, together with the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622103507	Then I would like to thank the rapporteur and, unfortunately, there is no possibility of any more, because the time has passed. We'll move on to the next one, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622103529	Thank you for that, President. It's been about nine months since the Danish Parliament opened in October last year. The parliament hall is similar to itself, almost at least, but Denmark has changed. There is a world that is a virus and there is an economic crisis, unlike then until now. At that time, Denmark was progressing. The curves pointed the right way, employment was record high, and the number of people with public support was at the lowest level for 30 years. It went well. It's not like that anymore. Denmark is in the middle of an economic crisis. We don't know how deep the crisis is, but it's here. And the government has made it worse. The rebooting of Danish economy has been slow. The reopening has been messy: an almost daily lottery with changing reports and an unsightly competition to win the government's favor, with random travel restrictions and border closures, which have been changed over and over again, and an iron grip on the capital's hotels, which, like so much else, has never been justified in terms of health. In an extraordinary crisis, the government has asked for this and we have confessed to the powers that would otherwise be unheard of, and the Folketing has shown the government confidence. It had to be this way in the face of a threat that we didn't know. Now normality is so small in coming back, but the constitution divides power into three, and as the first in the new parliamentary year we must ensure that the government will settle for its third. Extraordinary powers shall not apply for more than one minute than is necessary. The crisis has a price, and right now it is paid by the more than 250,000 Danes in the country's private jobs, who have either got a note in their hands or have been returned on pay compensation. The Danes who have already felt these consequences are other and much, much more than just red figures in a spreadsheet. They are the ones who have had everyday life moved up in an instant. They are the ones who are now having the difficult conversations about the term and whether you can keep the car after the children have been put to bed. One of them is Connie, who I met on a trip to Jutland. For almost 17 years she worked at the airport in Billund, but when the planes disappeared, Connie's job did the same, and she's certainly not alone, unfortunately. But Connie and all the others who have lost the job are, unfortunately, in danger of being forgotten as everyday life is returning to most people. The Left's goal is clear, and it is that the Danes who have lost the job must have a new one, and it is urgent. Unemployment is hitting hard. It affects the individual, but it also affects the community. In a few months, 7 years of hard work and job losses have been lost, and even the strongest economy cannot in the long run cope with more unemployed people, fewer jobs, less growth and greater debt. Reforms are what have made the Danish economy strong, but it is not invulnerable and it cannot stand anything. We do not have a strong welfare society unless we have strong companies and good jobs. That is the value created in private, which ultimately creates the wealth that is absolutely necessary to pay for our welfare and for an ambitious green transition. That's all it is. Our community is strongest when most people are in work. In recent times, money has been spent, as rarely before. Some have been used wisely: compensation for wages and compensation for small businesses, which have been hit hard by political decisions. Others have been used unwisely. We solve absolutely nothing by sending 1,000 kroner. to the country's cash aid recipients and foreigners on integration benefits, which have an income, the same income, while tens of thousands of private Danes are uncertain whether they can keep theirs. It is completely incomprehensible to me that the Social Democratic Party made this a condition for being able to pay the Danes their own holiday money and a condition for holding hands under the export companies. I guess you shouldn't be surprised. Unfortunately, the recipients are ahead of the working Dane in line when the Social Democrats decide. It's a different road than the Left. We have had the opportunity to spend money because reforms have been carried out on early retirement, on daily allowances, on cash benefits and on many other things. It has not all been equally popular, and many of the politicians who have been most opposed to the reforms are those who have now helped to spend the money. But it is the merit of the reforms, and the politicians who had the courage to stand by them, that there has been money to spend. But it can't go on. Everything has an expiration date, and we have reached that date. The time of the mild gifts is over. Now it's time to recover the lost. It does not come of itself, and it requires everyone, including the government, to make a choice. Will a responsible economic policy be safeguarded, or will the post-retirement pay be reinstated, which will pull healthy people out of the labour market? Will taxes and charges be kept in order, or should each Finance Act send a shower of new bills to citizens and businesses and make it expensive to do business in Denmark and send jobs out of the country? Will you deal more with how to make money and less with how to spend money? There are two ways in Danish politics. One will be expensive for Denmark. The other one is the Left. Then, on behalf of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance, I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that Denmark is in the middle of an economic crisis and that 7 years of fall in unemployment has disappeared in a few months. Denmark was well prepared for the crisis thanks to reforms that strengthen the basis for growth, prosperity and welfare. The Danish Parliament notes that it is crucial that we safeguard a strong foundation for the Danish economy with high employment, more private jobs and sound public finances. This is the prerequisite for increasing prosperity and solid funding for welfare and green conversion. The Danish Parliament expresses concern about the government's plans to raise taxes and taxes for the Danes and Danish companies. The Danish Parliament notes that on a number of points the government, contrary to promises made before the elections, has relaxed the strict immigration policy in relation to, inter alia, repatriations and integration services. Parliament stresses the importance of pursuing a tighter policy on foreigners. • V 97). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622104405	This proposal is part of the further debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622104419	Thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen for the speech. It was very much about financial responsibility, but I really want to mention some of the words that have been linked to the Left, it has to be said, very expensive proposals to halve VAT from some of the country's top economists. They call it troubling, unthinkable, insecure, expensive and a fucker. As I said, it is not my words, but the words of some of the country's chief economists; it is some of the present and former economic experts, etc., who use those words to describe the proposal to halve VAT. It's been tried before the '70s. Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, it was a success that is worth repeating? Or how does Mr. Mr Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Ellemann-Jensen on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622104508	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622104509	In general terms, I think we should be very careful about doing anything, as Mr. Anker Jørgensen did. And that applies in general. When we put forward this proposal for a halving of VAT, it was to kick off the economy, and it was to say that we would like to make a proposal which benefits all the Danes, which is beneficial everywhere in Denmark, which is something one can only get a hand in by actually boosting consumption and which is something one cannot take with oneself abroad, i.e. something that is targeted at a boost of Danish economy. I think this proposal has been put forward for that. So did Angela Merkel, who is probably not so totally irresponsible when it comes to the economy. We can see that VAT is being reduced in Germany. There is a differentiated VAT, and I understand from the government that, although it can be done in Germany within a few weeks and the government tends to raise the tax in a few days, it will take a whole year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622104616	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622104618	Sir. Jakob Ellemann already mentions the proposal in the past, and I would actually like to clarify that a little. Does this mean that the Left is now saying: Fair enough, it is not going to happen? You don't have to admit, it was a bad idea what it was, but just say, "Okay, that's not gonna happen." We don't propose it anymore. That would be an important signal, because one of the problems is, in fact, that people, if they have the expectation that a reduction in VAT might occur, are giving way to restraining consumption and we need the opposite. So if we could get the clear answer, that is that the proposal no longer forms part of Danish policy, that it will not happen and that we did something else, it would be right, very good and a very concrete and important product of today's debate. Is the Left sticking to the proposal, or is it recognised that it is not going to happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622104706	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622104706-2	So this is turning into a really great debate, because for the first time we will have a rapporteur who will answer the questions that are being asked. I think it was an excellent proposal and I think it was a very good proposal, but we got something else instead. After all, we got an extra week connected to the government's proposal in relation to holiday money, i.e. the money that a lot of Danes have put in their own money. This means that we will be sending out some money for consumption. To do both these things at the same time I think would be an overstimulation, but it is not possible for the Socialists to think at the same time that this has completely slowed down consumption and at the same time to say that there is simply no problem with consumption. I would like to appeal for an adjustment of the argument. The report from this is clear: I think it was an excellent proposal; now we have gone in a different direction. This is parked in a moth bag.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622104759	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622104802	I'm not gonna ask you, sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. Thank you for your cooperation on this. That's good. I think it should be a part-wind issue, so there will just be a proposal for a smash here. Before the hour of questioning the other day, we were sitting in our little corner, and there were six feet under the tables, but only four of them were wearing EU socks, and I do not know if you can figure out for yourself who had found another pair for the occasion. Well, that's because sir... Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party, is allyed with New Citizens in the ambition to get Denmark out of the EU. Of course, the Left is not, and good for it. However, it points to the need for broad cooperation in the field of European policy. That is why I would just like to ask, as part of the question of winning, whether the Left is ready for a European political agreement, for example. could begin and start looking forward to the dismantling of the defence reserve as the next major achievement in terms of our becoming an even stronger voice in European cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622104911	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622104912	Thank you for the question. I want to save sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's honor immediately say that it was Mr. Morten Østergaard and I, who wore the above socks. I don't want that doubt to spread. Having said that, I would very much like a new European political agreement. We worked on it at the time, when I myself was the European rapporteur a number of years ago, and unfortunately it ran into the ditch for various reasons. I think that was a pity, because I thought there was a need for a new agreement. One of the things that I think is important in such an agreement is a dispute with the defence reservations that have so far run out of time. The world is worried about us. We can see that large parts of the population on the African continent want to do so, Russia and Putin act in one, we have to say inappropriately, the Middle East is, as usual, Britain leaves the European Union, the United States is quite predictable and since Obama has wanted to turn its focus elsewhere. There is a need for Europe to take greater responsibility for our own security as well, and the abolition of the defence reserve will contribute to this. I warmly support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622105021	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622105023	Thank you. I also share the concern about Danish jobs in the wake of the corona crisis. One of the things that we have the opportunity to do to influence it is to contribute to an agreement on the EU budget and a recovery fund, and there have then been a little cursors on the line. However, I have at least noted that the MEP of the Left has written at Everything, and I quote: 'Left climate policy is about making cooperation in the green area work at EU level. In future, the specific interests of countries must not slow down the green transition. I think that is a crucial point of reference, and we in the Danish Parliament, before the Danish Parliament enters the session-free period, will have to discuss the European Union's recovery fund exactly on Wednesday. That is why it could be a good step to get back on the road to broad cooperation on European policy and towards a European political agreement, if we could just agree to take the starting point for a joint decision to support the government's creation of an EU recovery fund with its colleagues.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622105127	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622105129	I agree with that, and I am a little sad if Mr. Morten Østergaard takes the view that, because we in the Left insist that the money should fit, it should mean a fool's to our keen support for European cooperation. It certainly does not, nor does it mean anything in relation to the importance of the responsibility that we, together with the rest of Europe, must shoulder, to ensure that we get a proper recovery, that we get a green recovery, and that Europe's God forbid it does not break in two.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622105200	We're gonna skip that thing with God. We usually say that we do not call on the higher powers here in the Folketing. It's true, I'm sorry). We'll try to take care of ourselves if that's possible. I guess so. Then we'll go over to mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622105219	Thanks, and I can confirm it with those nasty socks down here under the table, it was a bad day in the office! I have to say, suddenly flanked, and you can't do anything you're sitting here and you've got a seat right here between these two gentlemen, it was actually really creepy, and I would like to say to Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, that there is something to work with here, because that is not a good thing! Because if there is one area where Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. I just want to say that. There have been some sceptical tones in the Left in the past, including in relation to the challenges of migrant workers and their rights, etc., national independence, in relation to the fact that we ourselves also have real power over things and so on. Where did they go? There were, for example, Those who voted for Mr. Søren Gade to the European Parliament elections in the belief that there was some scepticism in the Left. Where'd it go? - Sir... Jakob Ellemann-Jensen is being lured to rediscover some of those healthy sceptical things about the European Union, which some leading Liberals have actually been out with in the course of time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622105336	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622105337	I think there is simply a mix of things here. Because I am a warm supporter of the people's regime, of the Folketing, of this Chamber and of the things that are going on in it. But that is simply not all that is going on, especially on this side of the midline, which I think is equally brilliant. I also feel the same way about European policy. I am a warm and wholehearted supporter of European cooperation. Are things being agreed in European cooperation that I do not agree with? Yes, there is. Should we express a healthy scepticism about this? Yeah, you have to. Are there any balances I'd like to see different? It certainly is. That does not even bring me close to being sceptical about our cooperation in Europe, and that is why I wear from time to time the socks that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl refers to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622105429	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622105430	But that is too often, that is the challenge here! Now take the Recovery Fund: Jakob Ellemann-Jensen does not explain to the Danes in a few words why they have to pay a higher tax and have a later retirement age to pay money to southern Europe, which has not been in order in their economy before the corona crisis, for example. Italy, which did not, after the financial crisis, make the reforms that we made in Denmark to put the Danish economy in order? Then you ask the Danes to do a lot of things to make sure that we really have control of ours, and when the others who haven't had control of theirs or done what they needed to do to get theirs together, they get in trouble again. Italy. - Sir... Jakob Ellemann-Jensen does not explain whether it is super smart to have such a gift element where you come and sprinkle the money over southern Europe from the rich North? That is the picture that you kind of give the impression of. But it is the rich North because there are some Danes who work for it, and Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen himself referred to this in his rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622105529	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622105531	Well, my point over the last few weeks has just been that the Danes don't have to pay a higher tax to finance this. That's what I was trying to get a guarantee on from the PM. You wouldn't give it. The Prime Minister had three suggestions: either you had to pay more taxes or you had to cut welfare or we have to have a higher retirement age. These are the proposals put forward by the government. I don't think any of them seem very uplifting. When it is important for us to help southern Europe, it is because the Italians were right, at least with some right, to feel let down during the financial crisis, to feel let down during the migrant crisis and now feel let down during the corona crisis, among other things. because the Danish side has chosen to send some antiquated junk to those who cannot be used for anything. I think we owe it to Italy and southern Europe and Europe to help each other, including in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622105620	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622105623	Lately, we have landed a lot of agreements at night, but it is not the same as secret or secret agreements, and the night before Monday we landed a package of help, a summer package, a summer package, which means that we are sending out the frozen holiday money, but we are also sending out money to, among others. the country's folk pensionists • 1.000 kr. I would have liked to have seen that it was more that I would have liked to have seen that we had looked at an elderly check, and I thought the Danish People's Party and the SF had been very much in agreement about this, and that they had looked at the cramped families of children and much more. I am surprised, however, that the President of the Left is now standing in the Chamber and is avoiding that agreement from not many days ago and saying that the DKK 1 000 we are sending out to the country's pensioners is not a good idea. Does this mean that the Left is gonna drop out of the deal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622105713	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622105714	This certainly does not mean that we are abandoning the agreement, but, as Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr also knows, when an agreement is reached, there are elements that have grown more in one's backyard than others. It's just to say what it is, because this is not an element that has grown in our backyard. I tried to tell you before, but let me try to put it another way. We think it is great that so many Danes have access to some of their frozen holiday money, because it is people's own money that they have worked for them themselves, and I think it is good that they get them. We think it is good that the efforts are being made for export companies which have not been hit hard yet, but which can see in their order books that they are being hit, and that is something that will hit the whole of Danish society. These are some things that we thought were important to get through, and we have come through with that. However, the suggestion that in some sort of balance a large group of people should also be given money from those who also receive their own holiday money was not a flower that had grown in our garden. We accepted it, and we stand by it, and we're not running away from anything, but I'm just saying that that part of it wasn't on our block when we came in. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622105820	Here you go, Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622105821	I'm glad to hear that, because I had a little doubt when Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen had the floor and spoke rather scornfully of the 1,000 DKK. I agree with that, for I would have liked the poorest elderly people and the poorest families of children to have a much more serious boost, but I think that this can be felt by a folk pensioner who only has the basic amount and who in fact every month sits and turns every penny to afford food, to afford transport, to afford medicine, and then means DKK 1,000. Very much. I have no doubt that the pensioners who have worked very many years on the Danish labour market have actually deserved to be able to give their grandchildren an ice cream during the summer. So, I'm glad to hear that, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen has set aside the scoff a little and says that he is still behind the agreement we made last Sunday.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622105911	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622105913	I am sad about it if there has been any doubt about it, but I am not the type of person who is running out of an agreement, and I am not doing so here either. After all, I share Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's view that this is money that falls in a dry place and that it is something that is going to be of good use and there are a lot of good purposes, and the thing about giving the grandchildren some ice during the summer, I think, is excellent, but why is it more needed now than a year ago for precisely these groups? I fully agree that we want to strengthen consumption, but it was somewhat ridiculed earlier by our VAT proposal. Why does this group need this check more now than a year ago? I simply do not understand that. Their economy, their income has not changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622105959	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622110002	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen for the speech. After all, it always suits the Left to be in opposition, also because it gives the possibility of getting some of the more liberal thought, among other things. the principle of transparency. I am therefore pleased that the Left has also agreed that we should have an investigation into the whole course of the corona, not to place blame and responsibility, but precisely in order to learn from it. That is why I am also surprised that it is so important for the Left that that study should be limited to the period of decommissioning, i.e. that the entire period up to which it should not be examined. For a significant part of the background to the decisions that were taken is based, among other things, on the fact that it is not possible to find a solution to the problem. How was access to tests and protective equipment; how was health care capacity; how was the number of places in health care? For Connie, as Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen mentioned in his speech, could have worked at a care centre or in a medical department with overcrowding and had no access to visors, masks, kits, that is, had no access to protective equipment. Why doesn't that part have to be investigated? In other words, what kind of openness is behind the fact that exactly the part pointing backwards in terms of preparedness should not be part of the study to be carried out?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622110124	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622110126	I really believe that we have all learned more about the part called preparedness, and so do we. We need to learn more about the whole process, we need to learn something from it, and then we also need to recognize that without using it too much in here to beat each other upside down with the fact that there are some places where we can do better, and we can do that on the alert, and we can do that in relation to protective equipment. After all, these are some discussions we've had, because we've suddenly been standing in a jar to say it like it's a fucking mess. If we can learn more about this, then I think we should be. So, let's finally get smarter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622110157	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622110159	That is precisely why I wonder why it should not be part of the study now to be carried out. For even if Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen says that we can become wiser, so it also requires that we take it as part of an overall study, because the problem has been that we have not always known when decisions were made on the basis of political considerations, when they were health professionals and when they were justified on the grounds of preparedness, in other words lack of protective equipment and tests. And if we're gonna get the full picture of it, we're gonna have to look into it. Then it is not enough just to say: well, there is a problem. We must also see what we can learn from it. How can we ensure that there is sufficient capacity? How can we ensure that there are both supplies and production and stocks of protective equipment? And that is something we have to investigate, and that is why I am surprised that it is not something that is at the heart of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622110238	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622110240	I'm sure we'll get around in this investigation. I also think, as the questioner does, that it is important to examine this. I also believe that one of the lessons we need to learn from this is that now it is in the health sector that we are affected. Of course, in all areas this must be matched by the risk of what we may be hit by. But I think this is an important lesson for all of us when it comes to what can be hit by disasters. So let us also examine what we thought about it earlier. It's fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622110319	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622110322	Thank you for that, and thank you for a good speech. I want to do the same thing as sir. Morten Østergaard, you can say, lay up for smash I hope. The day began sadly for me in trying to gather 90 seats, compared to the fact that the Danes who receive their holiday money are not to be hit by the top tax on these hundreds of thousands more Danes who are hit by top tax only because they are paid their holiday money. I just need to know if I can put a fly bone at the mandates of the Left in relation to the fact that we will shortly have an agreement that we must somehow regulate it by 2020, so that we do not have to pay top tax because you get your holiday money paid.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622110405	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622110407	I firmly believe that this is something that we need to find a solution to • I very much agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Søren Pape Poulsen says that this is something we need to find a sensible solution to. As far as I heard the figure, it is about 96,000 Danes who go into the top tax simply because they get paid some of their own money. So let's find a sensible solution to that. I'm sure we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622110436	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622110437	Thank you very much; I just wanted to thank you for that. I'll continue the line through this afternoon. If we can now count to 90 later in the day, then we must meet and talk about whether we cannot find a really good solution so that the people who get their own money paid out are not going to be new top taxpayers. I think sir... Jakob Ellemann-Jensen and I agree entirely with each other that it is not, after all, because top tax payers are missing in Denmark; we have plenty of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622110501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622110502	We certainly agree on that. That is why the Left also had a proposal to bring forward the tax cuts, including an increase in the limit on top tax, which the Folketing has already adopted, on which we agree, and which come further down the road.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622110521	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622110525	Thank you for the floor. I took note of the rapporteur's emphasis in his speech that it should not be more expensive to be a Dane, that taxes should be kept in order. Can the rapporteur confirm that increased taxes on, for example, agriculture, with which the left is pressing, will not benefit the climate, but will simply move agricultural production out of the country? And can the rapporteur confirm that increased taxes on agriculture will never be the policy of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622110552	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622110554	One of the things we are going to discuss in the climate negotiations that are taking place and that, for some, we finished last night, is agriculture. We have attended some of the same meetings, among others. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. We share the ambition to do so, that is to say that this must not be the case. That is why I am also pleased that in the night's negotiations we reached from 2 million. t to 3,4 million t, because it reduces the risk of us getting there. Having said that, I think that all parts of Danish society are going to pay for this. What we need to ensure is exactly what Mrs Pernille Vermund says. The pig is therefore not becoming more sustainable because it has been produced in Poland, Germany or elsewhere. We make the best food in the world. We do this most climate-friendly, most animal-friendly and most environmentally friendly. We have to keep doing that, because we're the best people in the world for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622110703	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622110705	Thank you for a very good answer. This also means that the Left will hopefully be able to confirm that the greater food production we have in Denmark the less taxes and burdens we have on Danish agriculture, so that they will be able to produce more • the better it will be for Danish economy, Danish jobs, but actually also for the climate and for the environment, because, as the rapporteur says, we have an agriculture in Denmark that produces food with, among other things, food. the lowest CO2 produced unit.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622110736	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622110737	I do not think it is quite that simple, but I fully share the view that this is a Danish core competence. It is a competence that we must support and of which we must be proud. It is also a competence that we must be aware of has a great impact on the climate, on the environment, and therefore there is a balance to be found. That balance must never tip out to the side where we push production, jobs, discharges out of Denmark just to stand and pat ourselves on the back and say: No, where has it improved here? There is therefore not such a dome across Denmark as there is almost over the President of the Danish Parliament here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622110822	Yeah, you feel a little like a ticket lady sitting here. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622110832	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, on his excellent report. to all those who are outside the labour market. It is good to hear that it is not the policy of the Left, but that it is something that has been voted in favour because it was the condition for voting in favour of the rest of the government's policy. So it's nice. It is, unfortunately, just not a single swallow in relation to the Corona crisis to pursue policies that make it less profitable to work. The other day, the Left agreed with an agreement which raised the daily allowance rate for some to 110%, which means that for some of them it is not worth taking a low-paid job, and it has also helped to suspend the 225-hour rule, which was actually invented in the Left at the time. It is therefore a policy which runs counter to the principle that it should pay better to work. I'm a little curious about that because I think it's only a temporary thing that the Left has the position of what it is that makes it wise in a time of crisis to ensure that it pays less to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622110931	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622110934	One can say that it is never wise to make sure that it pays less to work, so that tripwire I just want to move over. When I think it is fair to say that you can go up to a higher rate of unemployment benefit, it is because it is to encourage further training. It's to animate that some of those who have ended up on unemployment benefits also go in and take some training during this period. Because we're in a difficult period. As I mentioned before, tens of thousands of Danes have gone out of the labour market very quickly, and some of them we would therefore like to encourage them to acquire skills, and that is what this is all about. If we suspend the 225-hour rule during the period we are in now, then there is also an element of reasonableness in what is said to be sitting together and the rapporteur himself remembers that from home and croaked at our telephone meetings, so the possibilities of going to job interviews were perhaps a little limited, to say what it is, and that reality must also be reflected in the rules that apply to the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622111037	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622111039	Yes, but nevertheless the consequence of the agreement in the area of unemployment benefits is that it is not worth taking a low-paid job, and this suspension of the 225-hour rule continues for several months to come, and I really think that is only worrying, but it sounds on the left, as if it is not something that will continue after the crisis, that we know that it is not necessarily a wise crisis policy. So, instead, I would like to ask constructively: what reforms will the Left actually be setting up after the crisis, with the aim specifically in mind that for those outside the labour market it should be better for those outside the labour market to be able to pay better off to work? Are there any concrete reform requests that the Left might be able to reveal even now?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622111115	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622111116	What is most important to us is, after all, recognition that the reforms that have been carried out in the past are the basis for us to have a favourable economy on our way into the Corona crisis. That is what has enabled us to hold our hands under many Danish jobs; that is what makes us not economically as disastrous as other countries. That's one part of it. The second part of this is therefore our tax stop-- our tax stop-- our tax stop-- our tax stop-- our tax stop-- our tax stop-- our tax stop-- our tax stop-- our tax stop-- our tax stop-- our tax stop-- our tax stop-- our tax stop-- our tax stop-- That's where you have to start. Can we then share an ambition that we would also like to see the tax reduced in some areas? We can do that, but let's start with that where we give the Danes a sense of security, giving Danish companies a sense of security, that it should not be more expensive to run a business in Denmark, that it should not be more expensive to be a Dane and take a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622111203	Thank you. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622111206	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. It may not have been a speech in which the summer mood had so far been quite right, but it may be that way to be in opposition. It was also a speech which, on the part of the rapporteur, was very critical of most of what has been going on over the last few months. I am glad to hear that the Left is not moving away from the agreement; that would have been surprising. But you are still very, very critical of it with the 1,000 kroner we have paid out to, among other things. old-age pensioners. I would really like to ask the rapporteur: has the Left at any stage in the negotiations called for this DKK 1 000? paid to beneficiaries should not be part of the recovery package?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622111251	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622111253	I mean, we've focused on the areas that we thought were important. We had the proposal to halve VAT, which I also acknowledged to Jesper Petersen that we have put in the moth bag next to Peder Skram. That proposal, like it, has lapsed. We actually tried to bring that in, but it's fallen away. Then we have focused on the extra week's holiday money and on ensuring that Danes also get that week's holiday money back, and then we have focused on this export business, because they are hit hard. There is a need for some restart teams based on the growth teams, which under both red and blue governments have secured a strength position in Danish export life. Based on them, we have to make these reboot teams, where we also look at what kind of things you do abroad, and what kind of relief packages you have there, there is something that risks being competitively distorting so that Danish export companies are best equipped to get out on the other side of corona. So we really focused on the positive side and said that these are the things we want to make sure come with. And no, the 1,000 kroner. was certainly not on that list.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622111401	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622111402	I note that when the rapporteur began his speech, or was it in an answer, the rapporteur said: now comes the time when the rapporteur responds to what is being asked. I think it's a principle that's broken now. For what I was asking was not what the Left has focused on, but whether at any time during the negotiations on the restart package, the Left has demanded that there should be no 1 000 kroner. to beneficiaries of benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622111428	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622111429	I was actually trying to answer as constructively, kindly and willingly as possible. And I said we brought some stuff to the table, and this wasn't one of the things we brought to the table. I think the Minister for Finance was aware of our position on this issue. He looks doubtful; I am aware that facial mimics are not necessarily under ministerial responsibility. I think it has been relatively clear to the Minister where the Left stands. Whether it has been put down outright as a demand in the negotiations • No, it is not. And there was the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622111505	Then it's mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622111509	Thank you. After all, in the speech by the President of the Left, there was one line that I can see goes again, namely that the government has apparently made the crisis worse. Nevertheless, I found this somewhat thought-provoking when all the forecasts I can read, as others can read, from the European Union, the IMF, the Commission and so on. It is clear that Denmark is one of the best countries in the world, thanks to the efforts we have made. Then I cannot help wondering whether what the present President of the Left might be referring to is what the former President of the Left has been doing here along the way. When Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen in B.T. on 6 April wrote: "We need a reopening of Denmark, which goes straight to the capacity limit for our health care. Not above "not below." So the infection can spread at a rate where we build bunch immunity without ruining our economy. ▪ I didn't hear anyone at that time deny Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. Is this the type of crisis management which the President of the Left thought had been wise and which had made us better financially?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622111608	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622111609	I think, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has written some insightful and interesting posts • Some of them I also share the opinion of, but that is not one of them. When I criticize the government, it is for the reopening; then it is for the way in which there has been arbitrariness in relation to what reopens when; then it is in relation to the confession which lies in saying that now the travel guides will be based on objective criteria; it has not been before; then, because of a frustration which I think many Danes share, it is because things like this change a little from week to week; then we must travel in one place; then people from this country must come in, then they must be here six nights, then they must sleep in Copenhagen. In other words, there has been a arbitrariness in this which I do not approve and which I have not agreed with at any time along the way. That is what I have said along the way. So it's not as if it's a Monday coach comment that I'm gonna come down and say you should've done something different. I refer only to the points I have made along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622111718	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622111718-2	Thank you, sir. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Lars Løkke Rasmussen set in early April. In fact, this is the first time I have heard a Leftman say it so clearly, and one might have wanted it two months earlier, but peace now be with it. I think that is a very good thing, because it has been a little uncertain what the view of crisis management has actually been on the Left side. Then I just want to ask the first part of my question: Now that a lot of economic forecasts show that Denmark is very strong, among other things. Because we have managed the infection and have a low level of infection, which is due to the fact that we also have an opportunity to get out of it economically, Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen then did not acknowledge that the context is there • he probably reads the same analyses that I do and in the same way • and acknowledge that we are actually very good, among other things. Thanks to the joint efforts we have made in relation to the crisis management of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622111812	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622111813	Well, I kind of share that view, and I also have all the way through this, according to my answer earlier, backed up the decommissioning that the government was doing. I guess I trust it has the whole Parliament. We have shown the government the confidence that the government is acting properly in this situation. And there, to put it mildly, we have also given the government some room for manoeuvre to navigate. Now new employment figures have just arrived here this morning and, as far as I know, employment has fallen by 75 000 people. I'm pretty sure there's probably not a lot of people among them who think things are going well. Could it have been better if you had opened some things faster and if you had been more ready in the spit? Yeah, I think it could.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622111905	Sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622111906	Thanks for the speech. The Radical Left would like to sign up for good cooperation with the Left in order to create openness and transparency throughout the Corona crisis, because with transparency behind a decision-making basis, people will increase their confidence in the decisions taken. It has provided transparency on the calculations, and the Left has also supported a manifesto of openness and an independent corona evaluation. In recent months, therefore, the Left has repeatedly criticised the secrecy of the government and the lack of insight into the decision-making basis of the government and the authorities. This was also the case before the Corona crisis; e.g. is the financial rapporteur, Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen on 27 December at Ritzau quoted as saying about a number of climate figures: The calculations are there now, so I don't understand why they should be obscured and kept secret. That is why I would like to make an offer to the Left today in relation to the great demand and appetite for more openness and less cover-up: should we not add in our common manifesto of openness a new additional point, namely the amendment of the Public Service Act, so that once and for all we have more openness, as was also laid down in the government basis, which was last left in government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622112022	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622112023	I could tell where it was going, even at the beginning of Mr. Kristian Hegaard's question, but I still thought it was a rather elegant approach that came widely around. And I share the view that we see unprecedented secrecy from the current government in many areas. That is also why we took the initiative and understood the manifesto of openness which, fortunately, many of the parties of the Folketing joined. It was necessary, and I thought it was good. Then Mr. Kristian Hegaard: Well, shouldn't we get to grips with the public law? And I'm not going to deny that. Some have suggested that the ministerial service rule should be completely removed. We have been opposed to this, and we are still opposed to it. I do not think it is right to remove it altogether; I think it is important that there is room for a minister also to dare to ask what, of course quite unfairly, is called stupid questions and can also get answers to them. So I do not think we should remove the ministerial service rule. Is there anything we can relax? I think there is a proposal for this too from the previous government, and of course we stand by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622112131	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622112132	I am very pleased that the Left is not opposed to changing the public law and that it is open to look at it, as was shown by the government base, the last Left sitting in government. So it could be that there was a basis for some meetings to see if it could not happen. If we are not prepared to remove the ministerial service rule, we could take a very long step to revise it. So I just want to see if the Left could be open to meet and see if you could make some changes. For it is currently either the Left or the Social Democrats who are the only barrier to more openness and less cover-up and to change the public law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622112209	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622112210	We're always ready to meet to discuss things like that. So the invitation I assume it was we accept it too, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622112223	Thank you. Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622112225	Thank you. I am very pleased that the President of the Left, in public, has put this tolerable VAT proposal in the moth bag, thank you very much for that. My question is more about what the President of the Left said, namely that the DKK 1 000 given to a number of citizens is a wrong policy, which the Left has nevertheless supported in an agreement and continues to support. There, following on from what leading economists and former wise men have been out to say about the Left's VAT proposal, I can put a question mark on the economic pointers of the Left, for the purpose of giving this 1.000 kroner. is, of course, to boost consumption and boost the wheels. It is precisely to hold hands under private jobs and all the people we all care about in here and, as Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen himself said: there are 70,000 extras that are being hit. Is it not, then, merely to confess the colour of today and to say that this is actually a very good proposal, because it boosts the economy and consumption and helps to secure employment?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622112337	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622112337-2	Well, if reality were to be that way, it would be a great proposal, but the reality doesn't, so if we're going to measure it by what the job effect is of these proposals. One proposal is that which Mr. Thomas Jensen calls foolishly that's what I've been suggesting and it's gonna get approx. 16,000 jobs. The second proposal, which Mr. Thomas Jensen is a warm supporter, will provide approx. 400 jobs. The price of cuts, if you count it all, is for my proposal, and that is a high figure, 3.3 million. kr. per That's a lot of money. However, it is not as much money as it is for it, according to the questioner, unbearable proposals where it is 4.5 million. kr. per Very temporary job. So if we're going to measure it on that weight, I don't think it's my proposal that's completely stupid.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622112428	Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622112429	What has been adopted is, after all, something that helps create jobs, and there was no majority in favour of going the way of VAT that the Left wanted. It is also true that a VAT system that we have in Denmark is simple, and it is simple. Either the rate is zero, or it's 25%. This is something that many countries around the world actually envy us because it is easy to manage, both for the state and for companies. So it is probably also a clue that we have to stick to, so as not to make things more difficult for companies. In conclusion, I would just like to have a guarantee that this VAT proposal will not come out of the bag again, even though it is currently in the moth bag.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622112516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622112517	Just to rewind sir a little bit. Thomas Jensen's question: no one has proposed differentiated VAT rates. We have proposed halving VAT for a period of time. It is true that in the other countries they have differentiated VAT. And I understand that the IRS is challenged today, but the fact that you had to be 12 months to adapt to something that is 12.5 per cent. instead of 25%, it seems to me rather odd that in Germany, which has differentiated VAT, it is possible to make such a conversion in a few weeks' time. To the moth bag: When I made the reference to the former frigate, Peder Scrape, which is today a museum ship, it was to say that it is there, and we may not be using it, but it is there in case it should be. We don't keep it up, it's not something we're using our powers on, and it's not part of our preparedness, but it's there if we're gonna fix it up. So it should also be with the VAT proposal that if the Danish economy is developing in a direction where it is necessary to reconsider it, then we must reconsider it. I am not going to stand here and promise forever that we will never halve VAT.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622112623	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party, who will be the last questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622112628	In the Danish People's Party we give a great deal of priority to the elderly area, and every time we enter the negotiating table, we have the elderly area with us because the elderly have helped build up our society, and we owe them every thanks for that. On 1 May, we reached an agreement in the area of the elderly. The elderly, in particular, have had to endure the Corona crisis, and there is no doubt that we could have done a great deal more for the elderly and also for the relatives of the Corona crisis that we have been through. That is why I am surprised that the Left would not be part of this agreement and would be outside it. They could also have been involved with the Danish People's Party in following up on the senior minister, who has been completely invisible. We have had a Minister for Health, but our older minister has been completely invisible and we could have used the Left there. So perhaps the President of the Left will tell us a little about what the Left will do in the area of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622112738	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622112739	First of all, I fully agree with Mrs Karina Adsbøl that the elderly are some of those who have been severely affected. The Prime Minister also mentioned this in his speech before. The fact that we have all been able to see that people have not only felt themselves, but also been isolated in nursing homes around, and that the physical distance we have had to stick to each other, especially to the elderly, has hit very, very hard. It has in every family. It's got it in every nursing home around here. That is why this is also an area that we must prioritise. The fact that the Left was not in that agreement is actually due to the fact that we would have liked to see more resources kicked into it. We felt that the agreement was not ambitious enough. Is that supposed to be a reason to leave it? It is always a concrete assessment. I think it is good that an agreement was made in the area of the elderly. We would have liked it to be even more ambitious, and I know that the Danish People's Party would have liked to have seen this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622112837	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622112840	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party we also wanted a lot more, but that was what we could achieve. But I would like to hear what the President of the Left thinks in the future. After all, in the social field as a whole, both in the area of the elderly and in the area of disability, we have put forward a number of good proposals. When you are mistreated in the social system, you must also be able to be compensated for it. This also applies when you have not received the aid you were entitled to or have not received the assistance you were entitled to. There too, however, the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left has voted against our proposal in the Parliamentary Chamber, which could just improve the social area, which could improve the area of the elderly. So what is the background to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622112917	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622112918	I must confess that, on the specific proposals, I am not quite clear on what the background was. Of course, we sometimes have the habit of demanding funding, for example. in laying down the EU budget and such things, and I do not know whether it is that there has been something in relation to funding that has been the underlying reason. I promise I'll check it out. I promise to follow up on it, but I just haven't answered on hand. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622112948	Thank you for that to the rapporteur. We'll move on to the next one, and that's sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622112959	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Prime Minister for the speech. I bet she's here somewhere. Anyway, thank you for your speech. There were many things in such a Prime Minister's speech at a graduation debate that I think most people who hear it can agree with. At least in the Danish People's Party, we are pleased that it seems that in Denmark we have made better progress in the corona crisis compared to a large number of other countries, especially when it comes to deaths. It is clear that what is ultimately important here is that we spare the elderly and the vulnerable, who have been particularly caught up in the Corona crisis. That is why it must also be said at the outset that we welcome many of the initiatives that have been taken, and we think it is good that we dealt with these things quickly back in March, because we needed urgent action. But we must also say that the process has subsequently given us the idea that perhaps we in the Folketing acted fairly quickly in relation to the powers we gave to the government, because we do not think that in a number of situations the government has handled them with the respect to the Folketing and the involvement of the parties on which they were based. That is why it is also wise for the Prime Minister to acknowledge in his speech today that the government has made mistakes, and that is why it is wrong in contemporary terminology, because it is not long ago that they have made mistakes. I think it is a good thing that it is mentioned right away that mistakes have been made, especially in relation to our elderly people. If a married couple, who has had 57 years of marriage, cannot see each other, it is heartbreaking. If demented fear that their relatives have left them and they really feel let down, it is heartbreaking. It's one of the worst things you can get yourself into. I also think that it has really been heartbreaking when there have been funerals, funerals and funerals and there have been restrictions on the number of people who may come, so that people who have felt really close to the deceased have not been able to attend the funeral. But it has been handled, and it has also been handled in a way that has not been heeded by the warnings that have been given along the way, because there are parties in this Chamber who have argued along the way that we should have created better conditions for our elderly fellow citizens, our demented fellow citizens, for the people who were going to a funeral. And there are many who have at least asked us that question, because when you see a Muslim funeral, Yahya Hassan, hundreds of people are gathered and go packed at that funeral, while at the same time you say that the maximum must come, for example. 25 at a Christian funeral. How did it get so far in an old Christian country that we really have that situation? We think that the area of elderly people has been treated on a par with each other, and we think that the area of elderly people has suffered from the fact that it has not given enough attention. It's been a bit like you were thinking: we'll lock the door to the nursing home or the elderly home, and then we'll unlock when the corona is over, and then we'll hope the old people are okay. You can't get away with it like that. And it peaked a week ago when this agreement was made, which equates the country's pensioners with refugees who have come to this country a few years ago. When you made this deal for DKK 1,000, which everyone has to have tax-free in the autumn, it ends up with a folk pensionist who has fought his whole life to build up this welfare society can get the same as an asylumant who has come to the country and is on return. We simply do not think that this is an insult to pensioners. That is why it is good that we are now beginning to have a more normal political discussion, where we can divide ourselves according to opinions, because then the Danes can also see that in many areas there is in fact a difference where we stand, because this corona closure has also applied much of the political aspect. The fact that the Prime Minister stood up for a press conference after the press conference in live television for the Danes has been replaced by the fact that there is a more general political debate, where we can also show the Danes that there are indeed these differences. In principle, this is also the case in relation to the holiday money. The government felt that two weeks of holiday money could be left to the Danes, because it was not advisable to go further than confidence in the Danes was not for it to be advisable to go further. The agreement that was made a week ago, and of course we support that point; it was then 3 weeks, but why was it not 5 weeks? Why not say that when you freeze the Danes' money in a boom, they can come out when we are in a recession, and then it is not a question of 2 or 3 weeks, because it should of course be all five weeks. Where we have to split up according to opinions is one of them. in relation to foreign policy. The government came in a year ago in a picture that the Danes probably had that the government would be in charge of the same immigration policy as the rest of us before the elections. Really? No, the benefits are increased. I know it's called temporary. A commission has been set up to find out what the longer-term effect should be of raising benefits. The repatriation policy is being undermined. I mentioned earlier this morning that the Syrians for whom the Refugee Board actually now considers it advisable to return to Syria do not come back. Because politics is that they should be allowed to stay as long as President Assad is in power in Syria. It may have long prospects that we can then send people back to Syria. In the Finance Act for this year, it came in, I believe on a radical basis, that if you had a job here, you should go even if you as a fugitive should actually be sent home because you were here on a temporary basis be allowed to stay here anyway, with the family. So we're out of here. The prayer calls, which we could not have made clearly illegal and which could take place. The insidious Islamization taking place in Danish society. It happens. That's not gonna work. I think that the Prime Minister was talking about what was the lesson to be learned from the management of Corona that it is the community, it is the community mind that is carrying us through. But community and community mind are typical if you feel that you are united, because you are also to a certain extent alike. And it is clear that when you have an immigration over time, which just as quietly divides Danish society, it is that the cohesion and the sense of community that must be is challenged. We can just check on Sweden, see what it's like over there. If, after all, we had not done something over the past many years, yes, we would have been in a situation like Sweden, which, even more than Denmark, even though we have problems enough, suffers from parallel societies, crime and so on. And we know it well if we do not stand firm: many of the people who will then be in our society are people who are against gender equality, they are people who are against homosexuals, they are people who are against Jews and draw conflicts from the Middle East into Danish society. We know that with the population development that is in Africa and the Middle East, this is not something that just goes away: doubling the population in Africa up to 2050. We know that the pressure on Europe's borders will only increase in the years to come. That is why it is so crucial that we hold on. That is why it is so crucial that we keep a totally steady course. That is why it is important that we not only leave it to the European Union to find out whether there are external borders that are being kept safe in relation to this immigration. We saw just before corona that this was a very, very intense issue in relation to the border between Turkey and Greece. It'll come back in a hurry. Finally, I would like to mention about the European Union that, of course, the European Union has used the crisis. I think the Prime Minister mentioned this: any crisis is being used by the European Union to shape the European Union, I think it was said; yes, or to take more power from the nation states and place it in Brussels. And so the possibility has not passed the EU: here, too, the Corona crisis is being used to try to place the EU even more centrally instead of the nation states. kr., we as Danes are to be liable for a huge debt, which then mostly has to be given to southern Europe: we must then transfer money to countries that are not in control of their economy, to countries that tax their people less than we do, to countries where people are not asked to work as long in working life as we ask in Denmark. I think there are a lot of big questions to ask. There are many important discussions to be held, including about the European Union's action. And I welcome the fact that we now have a more normal political situation where we are actually getting these disagreements out so that the Danes can see that, when the crisis immediately hit back in March, we showed that this Parliament can pull on the same hammer, we can work together, we can quickly find solutions. But, of course, one day after we show that we share our views, as was once said so well, and that there is a reason why the Danes support one rather than the other. I look forward to a very good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622114015	Thank you. It was right on time. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622114021	Thanks for the speech. I would like to start by acknowledging that, despite a difficult situation, we have, for the time being, achieved better through the crisis than many of the other countries with which we can normally compare ourselves. It has been a difficult time and, after all, it is a good thing to recognise it. Then I'd like to ask about welfare. After all, the Danish People's Party has argued in the past that when you look at welfare, it must follow demographic development, that is, the economy that follows demographic development. As you know, the government has delivered this both during last year's financial law negotiations and with the municipal agreements that have now been made. Is it something like that, sir? Kristian Thulesen Dahl is more confident with the present government than with the previous government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622114104	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622114105	Well, I am basically most confident that the Danish People's Party is in a position where we have influence on things. To the question of demographic development, as it is so technically called, that is to say, the fact that the money comes with when there are more, for example. of the elderly: Yes, we are strong supporters of that. We think there should be room for this in the economy. The public economy must be organized so that it can keep up when more people, for example, come along. older people in our society who need help. And we will also be acting on that in this Chamber, even when we are discussing these various issues and discussing them. That's our line.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622114136	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622114138	Thank you. That sounds really positive. Against this background, one can then hope that there is still a basis for good cooperation with the Danish People's Party to secure the economy and thus to meet the growing welfare needs that will come when demography develops and that it among other things. could be in connection with the work on a new welfare law. I hope that's true. I'm just gonna sign for that, and I'm gonna be happy about that. By the way, I would like to conclude by asking: who is Prime Minister's candidate for the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622114210	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622114211	A big and a small question. We don't have a prime minister candidate for the moment. We will decide on that when we come to a choice. If today the Prime Minister goes up and says she wants to put out an election, then we'll take a stand on it. In relation to the welfare discussion, I would just like to say that it is the Danish People's Party's concern that the elderly are properly and they have dignified conditions. For example: In relation to the rock card scheme, which is being saved away in a number of municipalities, we think it is really bad. We want to ensure that some of the money that will then also be discussed in the context of a welfare law and an initiative on welfare, so that in reality also goes to, for example. the elderly. If we send money to the municipalities to benefit the elderly, how do we ensure that the elderly actually benefit from it? It's important to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622114303	Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622114307	It is therefore obvious to follow up on the recent question, but I will nevertheless resist the temptation to do so. I'm gonna ask you, instead, if mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, like me, is actually surprised that the Prime Minister, who claims to pursue strict foreign policy, will not intervene against prayer calls.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622114328	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622114330	I don't know how surprised I was, but I was sorry and I was sorry about it, because I think it's part of making sure that we stop the insidious Islamisation taking place in our country. And it is clear that if you are to live in areas where there are prayer calls, it is foreign to Danish society; we are an old Christian country. So, in the Danish People's Party we want there to be fewer mosques; we want there to be fewer minarets; we do not want there to be calls from the minarets. We've made that clear all the way through when we've discussed these things. And we also want the Folketing to put this through. We're happy when, for example, we get there. in Holbæk is a city council majority who says no to a big mosque. And I would call for that to be discussed too, so that we can get through all over the place in relation to this line.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622114426	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622114428	Yes, the perception of the latter I share. We have thus delegated democracy in the Left; that is the way we do it. We are a liberal party, so you can decide for yourself around here. So that means that the Danish People's Party supports the motion for a resolution which is being tabled now after the summer and which is precisely about preventing these electronically enhanced prayer calls?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622114453	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622114455	Yeah, we both support and we're in it all the way. I can promise you that, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. And if there are initiatives of this caliber, where we are not directly co-sponsors, then it is a purely technicality, because we are finding it all the way through.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622114513	Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622114516	It's big stuff that runs here, you have to understand. At least one of the problems that threaten society has now really been found. We are faced with an unemployment that has increased in tens of thousands of people are unemployed; we are faced with a world economy that is going down and must find out what we are doing to keep our hands under the jobs; we are faced with a climate crisis in which our parties, all three of them, have made a great deal of agreement yesterday, but I understand that what can sort of unite here is the discussion about, was the electronically reinforced prayer call? I really just want to ask, because I have now decided to ask easy questions in the first round, isn't this really an illustration that what the Danish People's Party lacks most from the time before the last election is that at that time one could discuss such a symbol policy all day long, and now all of us spend the time discussing CO2 Kristian Thulesen Dahl also misses in that area just the good old days?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622114615	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622114617	Yeah, there was a lot of good in the good old days. That's true. But I believe that Mr. Morten Østergaard is completely wrong about the proportions here. For one of the things that is really threatening, you can say Western civilisation or for Europe or for Denmark, of course, is if there is a population migration in the future, which means that what we saw in 2015 will only be a small parenthesis in relation to what we are going to experience. There are therefore some projections of how many people want a different line, then there will be in Denmark so people from Muslim countries who want a different direction in Denmark. If you look back and think that it is being projected, these are enormous challenges. Then it may well be that one will try to neglect a discussion about prayer calls, but that is an example of how things are going in our society. But if you don't take it seriously and can hold that discussion while we discuss climate and unemployment... what I agree with are very important issues that are going on. Of course we must be able to deal with that discussion. And it is clear that if Mr. Morten Østergaard puts this kind of debate on migration in the future and what it can bring about in our society, into the field of symbolic policy, then I understand better why Mr. Morten Østergaard is running around in the error he is making.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622114740	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622114742	Now I'm the one who's gonna miss the good old days, that is, the good old sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, because it is a long discussion that you have had with yourself within the Danish People's Party, namely how far you should go in what was said, with fewer mosques and fewer minarets and, as I saw in a debate at the reserve people's meeting the other day, I think there was also something with fewer Muslims. But back in 2014, when that discussion raged in the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: "We will not distinguish between religions. There is freedom of religion in Denmark, and one must believe in what one will believe in and be Muslim if one is a Muslim. Instead, we will aim at how to ensure that the people who come to Denmark can actually be integrated into the Danish society..... Kristian Thulesen Dahl back?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622114829	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622114831	But Mr. Morten Østergaard, it is quite correct that there is freedom of religion in Denmark. Is the Danish People's Party in favour of freedom of religion in Denmark? Yeah, of course we do. Are we in favour of the people staying in Denmark being able to believe what they want? Yeah. But is it the same as neglecting that there are problems in relation to an increasing number of Muslims in Denmark? No. We can see that everywhere. At least we can see where parallel societies are shooting up. We can see it where the challenges are greatest. We can see it where there has been a demand for changing food habits, we can see it where there are requirements for swimming lessons, and we can see it with prayer calls, which we are then discussing here most recently. Is there anything incompatible with promoting freedom of religion in a country and then paying attention to the challenges posed by increasing immigration from certain areas of the world? No, you can do that. So we want a Denmark where there will be no increasing Islamisation. That's perfectly logical. By the way, we have been doing this for 25 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622114922	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622114925	Thank you. And thank you for a fine speech. I share the wish that we should take proper care of our elderly and our weak in society, and the more elderly we get, the more resources we will also need it is widely known. Therefore, it is also a paradox that private companies can profit with money on welfare tasks, and that mentally ill and careless children and young people can become so gold-ridden a business that private capital funds now have an interest in the area and thus send lots of Danish welfare crowns into tax havens. That's a huge paradox. It's not illegal, but it's not right. It is not right for companies to pay huge rents to real estate companies owned by the companies themselves or buy expensive temporary workers from their own temporary employment agencies and thus make a great deal of money out of it. I would like to ask the Danish People's Party whether they will help to close once and for all the gap in the law that allows foreign capital funds to send welfare crowns out of the country into tax havens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622115037	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622115039	So, our starting point is that the money we ask the taxpayers to pay to our common fund, which must go to welfare, must be spent with real care, and they must, as much as possible, ensure welfare here in Denmark for Danes. That is why it is clear that it is always a problem if we can see that money that should have been used for welfare actually migrates from public funds and goes to something quite different, to some backers, capital funds and so on. Of course that could be a problem. We are very happy to enter into a discussion and cooperation on how to deal with it, that is clear. And then we have to look at how to find practical solutions. There may be opportunities, but it may be difficult to find concrete solutions, but the ambition to try it is shared by us. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622115129	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622115130	We know it also from the school areas and from the self-serving institutions. It is also private companies which perform welfare tasks, but which do not use the profit to pull out of the companies, but reinvest it in better education and better care for the elderly. Will the Danish People's Party help ensure that welfare tasks should be non-profit and that this should not be an area where you can draw lots of Danish tax dollars to yourself or to capital funds in tax havens?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622115202	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622115203	Yeah, well, we'd like to help look at how to find solutions. I cannot stand here today and say exactly how to cut the cake, but I can say that our ambition is that the money that the Danes are asked to pay in tax and we have quite high taxes in Denmark compared to many other countries. Of course. And I fully agree with the questioner that there are a lot of private companies that provide quite a nice help to the Danish welfare community, among others. as mentioned in the field of school where it takes place. In the area of the elderly, we have had problems when municipalities have used private solutions and had to pull things home, and then we have had to have low fever rescues compared to the elderly who have then been in trouble. So this interface between the public and the private is causing problems, and we would very much like to see how we can find solutions to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622115250	Thank you. We're getting close to lunchtime at 8:00 a.m. 12.00, so we'll see just how many we can reach. But we can certainly reach Mrs Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622115258	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl on the position of the Danish People's Party on the climate. For April 3, you could read in Jyllands-Posten an article about the Danish People's Party now turning down climate ambitions; you want to go from 70%. 60%. I just have to say that I find it infinitely sad that there are parties here in the Folketing who use the Corona crisis as an excuse to turn down the green ambitions. I think the responsible person would be to do exactly the opposite, in other words to actually ensure that we create some green jobs in Denmark. So my question today is: what is the position of the Danish People's Party on the climate? Has the climate engagement in the Danish People's Party disappeared, perhaps almost as suddenly as it arose?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622115351	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622115352	This is a rather marvelous question after we have just reached an agreement on climate policy. We are doing so because we are in the process of transition, but we just think that we should talk openly about the fact that this is not an easy way. It's a cost-effective path. The Prime Minister also mentioned in his speech that one does not know the way to the 70%. I guess it doesn't matter if you say that if the economy shrinks 4 per cent. This year, we are expected to have a production and welfare loss of 300 billion. kr. Because of corona, it's affecting us. It affects us, then, in terms of what can be done and how quickly things can progress. And I think we should be able to talk openly about that. Does that mean that you can exactly land at 70%? By 2030? What if you can land at 68 percent? and the last 2%. Is it to be found by closing jobs and moving Aalborg Portland to Eastern Europe or something? I mean, it's just to get that realism into the debate that we are actually asking these questions, as we allow ourselves to do. But it has nothing to do with the fact that in the agreements that are being made we do not play with, in relation to how we can move Denmark in a more green direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622115503	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622115506	Thank you. Well, I think that Mr. Knox... Kristian Thulesen Dahl slightly poses some false contradictions. Because one can easily make an ambitious green transition, while at the same time being socially fair and creating a lot of green jobs. You can do that in the middle of a corona crisis. The agreement yesterday proved this, which provides a whole lot of jobs, especially for people who are going to produce wind turbines. But there is also a time when it will be difficult and when it will hurt someone, namely those who pollute the most. Does Dansk Folkeparti join in creating a CO 2
ParlaMint-DK_20200622115543	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622115544	Yeah, well, we made an agreement, after which the government has to come up with a proposal for it and we have to see if it can be done. But what is important to emphasise is that there are, of course, some prerequisites for this exercise to take place. And that's one of them. in relation to jobs, so that we do not just export jobs out of the country. It is also that there must be a proper social balance so that the bill is not left with the poorest Danes. In other words, we are just trying to point out to everyone that there are some things we put in as prerequisites and that the exercise is not so easy even. It's easy to solve this 70-percent target if you move companies from Denmark to other countries. Because then you solve it in a Danish context. The problem is that you have not done anything good for the world's climate, because then you just moved the problem to another place where it might get worse. So we have to do this wisely... I think it's the Prime Minister's favorite expression. I would like to comment on this; we must do so wisely. It is therefore also a question of preserving Danish jobs; it is a question of doing so in a socially balanced way. And that's why it's not just a snap with your fingers, and then it's done. It is actually quite difficult and we allow ourselves to talk out loud about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622115648	Thank you. Then we'll have a call for lunch. The first one after the break is sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622130011	It is 1 p.m. and we shall resume the question. I'm gonna ask you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl to come to the platform. There are still questions for Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, and the first to speak, is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622130029	Thank you. And thank you for a good speech from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. I kind of agreed with almost everything. But I would like to continue my perhaps not so inventive series of questions I have here. Because I saw that the Danish People's Party's financial rapporteur, Mr. René Christensen, in fact as one of the first, I think, was out to say that it was certainly not the idea that the Danes should have their holiday money back, that is to say that the Danes, who are today ordinary taxpayers, should be made top taxpayers by 2020 just because they had their own money paid out, at the risk of remaining standing. So I'm gonna listen to Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, whether Dansk Folkeparti will also be involved in finding a solution. If we can count to 90, we must ask the Minister of Finance to find a solution with us together. I have a proposal, but the model is not important to us. We're kind of open to how you can turn it together now. I just want to know if the Danish People's Party is interested in seeing if we can solve this challenge for the 100,000 people who have come into this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622130132	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622130133	I would also like to return to a certain degree of consistency in Mr. Simpson's report. Søren Pape Poulsen's question here during the day. It's well focused. We in the Danish People's Party take the view that it could just as well have been all five weeks of holiday money that the Danes were given the right to receive. They were frozen at a time when we had a boom; people thought it was too much money to send around in society. Now we are in a different situation, and I know that we have shared the same desire. And we also want it to be done in a way that does not in itself decide if you suddenly become top tax payers. So we are also fully involved in finding a model so that those who want to get the holiday money out by 2020 get them out without having to pay the top tax of them. And I actually think, without really remembering it in detail, that we were doing something similar when we paid out SP funds, the special pension savings; there I actually think we found a solution for a uniform taxation, and then the Danes could on that basis assess whether they want the money out or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622130236	Thank you. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622130238	Thank you. I am extremely happy to hear that, and I am fully involved in finding opportunities together. To do so as with the SP money is an idea; as I remember, it was a uniform tax which was kept a little out of the other annual balance sheet. But I really do not want to drag it any further than just saying thank you for the undertaking, and then we have to find a model. At least we are not going to stop it because of the model. But if we can find one together, if we can create 90 mandates, then I think there are a lot of people, at least 100,000 people, who will be happy about it. This also applies to a lot of people who come to work now and maybe get a job because we actually get the money out to live instead of people just leaving them in their holiday account.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622130310	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622130312	Yes. And in addition to that, I think that there are some other parties in this Chamber who should also respond to this principle as to why not all the holiday money is involved. Well, what is it that makes you really want to hold some back? If we agree that they were frozen because there was a boom and it would be risky for the economy to bring these funds into society and we agree that we are in exactly the opposite situation now, with unfortunately increasing unemployment, declining employment, etc. I think that some parties will have to answer that question during the day.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622130350	Thank you. The next person I would like to ask to speak is Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622130354	Thank you for that and also thank you from here for a good rapporteur's speech. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the fact that, during the last parliamentary year, DF has supported every time New Citizens have tried to activate section 42 of the Constitution. The 16 MPs of the DF have been involved and have wanted to be ready to sign when we wanted to give the Danes the opportunity to vote on the easing of foreign policy that has been implemented. So thank you so much. It tells me that our parties can work together on what is one of the most important things for Denmark. I would like to ask a more fundamental question, which is about referendums and about DF's relationship with referendums, both the guiding and also the determining referendums.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622130449	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622130450	Thank you very much, and of course we in the Danish Parliament must be able to work together on what we can be united about. So it's really good. In relation to referendums, we are a party that is fundamentally in favour of referendums. We think it is a good idea in principle that the Danes are asked and that the Danes can take ownership of both the process and the decisions, and that is why we think it is a good idea. We have also had proposals in the past for referendums on the citizens' initiative, so that it is not the Folketing that decides when, if necessary, a referendum can be held, but it is the citizens themselves who can say that they want a vote, both at national and municipal level. This is, of course, because we are living at a time when democracy is challenged and when it is about whether people are really involved in political matters that is challenged. It may be very sporadic how people get involved. So there we believe that referendums are an excellent means of promoting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622130546	Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622130547	I am very pleased to hear that, because it is so well in line with New Citizens' policy. So that's where we agree. A few weeks ago, I sent an invitation to mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl in connection with DF's announcement that now one would finally leave the EU. My invitation was that we should try to put ourselves together and create a common bourgeois resistance to union and coordinate the resistance of the Union which I am quite convinced is among bourgeois voters not only in New Citizens and DF, but also among others. Has the rapporteur been able to reflect on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622130626	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622130627	At any rate, I saw that the night to the day when Mrs Pernille Vermund appeared at Lippert in this so-called "folk meeting," which was in the middle of the city, had come such an e-mail Mrs Pernille Vermund exactly around this, which she also had in her speech. That is why I actually took it as an expression of why the invitation was sent. But it is clear that, if it was seriously meant, we would of course, as always, like to talk about whether there are common things we can work with. We certainly do. I also think that there was something in pooling some money and so on. We can always discuss this method, but I think the very thing about promoting cooperation between people working to combat the European Union is a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622130708	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622130712	Thank you. I really would also like to talk top tax with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Our respective parties have good experience of this. I am delighted to hear that one would like to look at the top tax issue in relation to the holiday money issue. So it is now the case that even more nurses, even more truck drivers, even more metal workers than before will pay top tax because they are paid holiday money. Just to make it such a low-practical pedagogic: It may be that they get about 30,000 kr. paid so that their income rises to approx. $50,000. a year, and that's why they have to pay top tax what they didn't have to before. But I guess it's not only those who get holiday money now and then get over the top tax limit, as it's a pity for the goose-eyes and you have to do something about it. This is also true of other nurses, metal workers and the like who, before the holiday money was paid, might have been just above the top tax limit. Surely it is not the case that you exceed the top tax limit on pay plus holiday money is worse than if you exceed the top tax limit on your salary alone. So isn't it both you should look at to raise the border permanently?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622130818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622130819	No, I mean, we are in favour of finding a concrete model in relation to an extraordinary payment of the holiday money that is taking place. 'Cause they come here all of a sudden and they have to get things moving. This was also the case at the time with the SP funds which were paid out and which I also remember we found such a solution. It is absolutely true that in general terms, the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party have historically had some challenges in finding each other exactly on the issue of the top tax limit. It's because we stand in different places. We basically think it is good that there is redistribution, that we have such a Robin Hood society and that some are being asked to pay an extra penny of what they earn over a certain limit and so on. It can be said that the top tax limit has been raised for a number of years now, and we do not want it to be raised in general beyond what it is on now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622130911	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622130912	Thank you. I am also trying to find common ground between our two parties. Because I simply have to understand why a nurse, let us say, who, with the payment of the holiday money, earns DKK 550,000, is not allowed to pay top tax. That is simply unfair. But the nurse who, before the corona crisis and before the payment of the holiday money, earned DKK 550,000 has to pay top tax all year round. That's fair, and that's fair. But the income is actually the same. What is the difference, since it is such an absurdity that you have to do something good for one group, but not for the other group, even if the income is the same?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622130947	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622130948	I actually just think that the Liberal Alliance, just like Mr. Liberal Alliance... Søren Pape Poulsen of the Conservatives should accept an outstretched hand and rejoice that there is a desire on our part here to find a concrete solution to a concrete challenge. We are willing to try to find a solution to this, while at the same time parking a general disagreement we might otherwise have on top tax policy. Because I think we do. So that's really what this is about for us. Let us try to find a concrete solution. Now it is the holiday money that is at stake, that is what has been at the heart of this whole discussion. But concrete solutions to specific challenges will help us to find them. But this attack on the Robin Hood community, that is to say that we have redistribution in our society at all, we do not like it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622131030	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next person I would like to give the floor to is Mr Spencer. Anders Kronborg from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622131033	Thank you. I would also like to thank the President of the Danish People's Party, like the other authors, for his speech. One of the topics on which we have concentrated the final debate today is these 1 000 kroner. to pensioners. I understand here on my draft paper that I have actually written the Prime Minister's candidate for the Danish People's Party. I will not say that the President of the Left has been very, very thrilling against these DKK 1,000. to pensioners. This is relatively new to me, and now I know that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl sits very much in the inner circle of what can be called blue block. So I'd really like to ask Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, if he won't shed any light on this. Is that a resistance, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has also heard earlier from the Left? Well, that could be sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who has helped save the 1,000 DKK. Or, like the rest of us, is it entirely new here today that this is something that the Left has really brought up in this final debate and did not, in fact, fight very hard against in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622131131	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622131132	Now the negotiations that took place in the Ministry of Finance were very marked by the fact that we had some meetings together, and then there were a great many meetings that took place bilaterally, in other words where the Minister of Finance called in the individual parties to find out how he thought he could propose things resolved. What has happened to those bilateral meetings, I cannot, of course, know anything about it for good reasons. And the thing about referring from meetings where you're common isn't good Latin in here at Christiansborg, is it? So I really think we should ask the Left about their actions in the course of a debate. You can always discuss 1,000 kroner. We wanted pensioners, for example. We should have a larger amount of money, and we fought for that during the negotiations. Apparently, it couldn't be done, unfortunately. Then we also fought to ensure that there wasn't this equality. We think it is a grotesque equality between pensioners and so people who are on return, that is to say, former integration benefits, and who are supposed to be here for a few years. I guess they'd be happy to be sent back home. The fact that they are suddenly about to have tax-free money on top of their current income seems to us simply wrong and that this is the same amount compared with the country's pensioners, we think that it is an insult to pensioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622131241	Thank you. Sir. Anders Kronborg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622131244	Yes, and I understand that too, but I also think that good Latin is that you are very, very clear before you enter into negotiations, in terms of political views. Well, now I know Mr. Knox myself. Kristian Thulesen Dahl at home from South Jutland and knows that Dansk Folkeparti is also sharp in the views and in the rhetoric of different agendas. Don't you want to join us, sir? Kristian Thulesen Dahl, that it would be much nicer if you could use that expression in politics, to be very clear about the 1,000 DKK. before the negotiations rather than coming after the negotiations and bringing it up here in the final debate? It certainly seems to me that this is something that, when you write the speech, you make a big trick, but you haven't made a big number for the negotiations themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622131318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622131319	But I'm still being asked to be a middleman here, right? For the Social Democratic Party the Danish People's Party asks what we think the Left did or did not do. And now we're in a hall where we're all here, so you can go straight to the left and ask them if they think so. In other words, there is no doubt about how the Danish People's Party has acted here, and what we have had of desires purely politically in the negotiations. And we ended up failing to accede to the overall agreement and also made it very clear that it was this point about pensioners, especially in relation to the equal treatment of people on return, that is to say refugees, that was the decisive point.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622131355	Thank you. Then there is a question from Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622131359	Thank you very much. Now the rapporteur himself referred to equality as a value that does not come out of so much in relation to immigration, which is why I feel called upon to inform the rapporteur that a recent study by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration shows that there is generally a high level of support for gender equality, both for immigrants and for descendants and for ethnic Danes. Particular emphasis could be placed on the group of female descendants, which is as high as 90%, which is higher than ethnic Danes. I would just like the rapporteur to deal with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622131442	Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622131443	But of course I would like to pay tribute to everyone who finds out how to recognise Danish values; that goes without saying. But to say that with the immigration that has happened to Denmark, no environments have been created where equality has been limited, I find it strange. Well, if we just discuss mosques, and if we discuss entrances and who sits where and something like that, the men are at the front and the women behind. And if you see some of the demonstrations that have taken place in the past where some Muslim communities have participated, I do not think there has been the equality that I at least associate with Danish society. I'll have to admit that. We hear about the problems of socialism, because a woman has acted differently, and I think that there are a great many reports from women from the immigrant community who have separated themselves from it and who report on how it is actually going on in the real world. I think I see it a little differently from the radical question here; I have to say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622131542	Samira Nawa, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622131542-2	But we can surely agree that none of us can look differently at the fact that 90% of female descendants' support for gender equality must be a fact. I guess I'm gonna want to keep asking 'cause mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl holds onto the negative image. In one of the debates earlier this year, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard said that immigration has only contributed to well-stocked greengrocers, and I would just like to ask Mr Kjærsgaard. Kristian Thulesen Dahl positive: Isn't there any further that can be added to the list?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622131614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622131616	Of course there is. However, I just think it is a completely distorted picture if you want to try to give the impression that immigration to Denmark works smoothly if you want to try to give the impression from Radicals that Denmark has become an enriched place. It is clear that if you believe in this cultural diversity and believe that it is good that we have such an increasingly diverse society with greater diversity and so on, you obviously think it is a plus, but I do not think so. I am in favour of a more homogeneous society where we are close to each other, where we feel for each other and have the same values.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622131654	The next question is Mr. Carl Valentin of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622131655	Thank you. Recently, I was on one of these famous politicians' visits, where a politician has to go out in reality to see what is happening there. And there I was in Soderup and in Tingerup, where I talked to some citizens who live close to pig production, who are expanding very much in these years. So I saw with my own eyes, and I talked to these citizens about how violent the consequences of these enlargements are for them. There is bad air, there is heavy traffic, there is ammonia pollution, and there are large lorries driving close to the local school, and these citizens feel extremely powerless to an industry that continues to expand. The reason they feel powerless is, of course, that local people are not allowed to say away from the expansion of livestock production if they want to protect their citizens. I would therefore really like to ask the President of the Danish People's Party whether he thinks that the municipalities should be given the right to opt out if they want to protect local citizens from these enlargements.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622131755	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622131756	Now it is not a profession that is generally just expanding. I believe that it is a matter of greater concentration, that is to say that production is actually concentrated in fewer places. And then it is true that production fills more where it takes place. Of course, we need to figure out how to solve this so that the environment can also be served by it. Of course. Of course, we always discuss whether we have the right tools for this. I would just like to say that in Denmark, in general, we are delighted that we have an agricultural industry which produces very, very high-quality food and on which we also make a great deal of money through the export that is there. And there are a lot of people who, in fact, also benefit from it by employing different managers and edges. We would very much like to keep to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622131848	Sir. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622131849	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is right about the fact that production is clearly collected, and you now have these huge pig factories, where there are many, many thousands of pigs in very little place, and that is only 2-3 per cent. of the Danish pig production, which is organic or in the open country. But there are also violent expansions in these years, and I am rather surprised that the Danish People's Party, which often wants to address itself as the little man's party, will not ensure that the little man can be protected here from this industry, where one finds that one is totally powerless and cannot be allowed to say away from it. Will the Danish People's Party not help to do something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622131926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622131928	We'd be happy to discuss it. But I just want to say that we have different descriptions, in terms of what it is like, that you also have a profession that is very difficult to expand because there are many complaints and you can stall. So I think this is a balancing act here, which we are, of course, always prepared to discuss. We want an agricultural industry that is fit and capable of producing, and we naturally want it to be done as well as possible in conjunction with the environment. That goes without saying. Especially when larger concentrations occur, there is, of course, a need to pay constant attention to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622132001	Thank you. The next person I would like to give the floor to is Mr Spencer. Orla Østerby of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622132004	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for its support for the Conservative proposal to ensure that all Danes have a family doctor. This is an important matter. Today, 140 000 people are missing a family doctor, and my question to the Danish People's Party is whether you will continue to work to ensure that all Danish families have a family doctor. I am thinking here of the fact that the government has a proposal and a desire to force doctors to clinics, especially in the outermost regions, against their will, and that is never a good start. But instead, I want to know whether the Danish People's Party will not help us secure the family doctor as we know it and work to get more doctors into practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622132105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622132106	A Denmark in balance is also for us to see a country where you can live safely, also because you know that you have very easy access to, for example. health care and also in the form of a doctor, and of course the very best thing is that it is a doctor like the family doctor who knows the family who knows the history so that you do not feel that you have to start over every single time. You can then say that you have solved it in many places by making some medical practices where there are more doctors under the same roof and where you get several different functions. Then you can say that in principle you also risk getting up and getting another doctor, but it is after all one from the same building, from the same house, and that is certainly a way to solve it, and we are very happy to help you find ways to make it attractive for doctors to search around the whole country so that, wherever you live, you are well covered by a family doctor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622132155	Sir. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622132156	The 140,000 people who are missing a family doctor today need to do something about it. Will the Danish People's Party help us take this up and work for it in the new political season?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622132210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622132211	We will certainly do so, and we will keep the government firm that the Social Democratic Party went to elections in such a decentralization reform and near hospitals, and I do not know what, so really gave the impression that now the whole country should be covered with these services. There is a fine place to say that it certainly also requires that you have access to a skilled doctor, a qualified doctor, close to where you live, and that we have spread the network of skilled doctors throughout the country. So it would be perfectly obvious that it comes in after the summer break as one of the important things.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622132241	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Nils Sjøberg of the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622132246	Thank you. I take the floor following on from what Kristian Thulesen Dahl said earlier about not quoting from committees in which one now attends meetings and where one agrees that one should not do so. This also applies to the Committee on the Rights of the Child, where we have a whole series of personal data from individuals, and now the Conservative Marcus Knuth has made a proposal in the past that there were a number of people who should not be allowed to obtain Danish citizenship because they were criminals. When the matter was raised in Politiken and mentioned there, Marcus Knuth found that it was not a good idea because it would mean that some people were mentioned by name, without it actually being acceptable and allowed in committee. But the chairman of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, Marie Krarup, thought that Marcus Knuth was a chicken for that, and you yourself must describe people as you think you want to. I'd like to ask Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: Is this in line with general practice? There should be no doubt that we disagree on the way we look at refugees and we look at immigrants, but here I ask in principle: is this a right way to go out and deal with our committee work in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622132404	Thank you. And the rapporteur should just remember that you are indicting third person, and that you say Mr... and Mrs. in front. Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622132412	Well, I cannot go deep into the actual discussion. What I can say in general terms is that we in the Danish People's Party have always wanted the issue of citizenship of foreigners to be an issue that can be dealt with openly and that it is fundamentally an issue that is being dealt with here in the Chamber of Parliament, where you can keep track of things. So it can be said that this whole practice of moving things into a Committee on the Rights of the Nation and away from the public's ability to see what is going on, we have worked against, and we have tried to drag things down here in the Parliament hall so that the Danes can keep up. So I think that is only important, and it may well also be in this context that the discussions here have taken place in relation to who should be dealt with in concrete terms in the Committee on the Rights of the Child.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622132501	Nils Sjøberg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622132502	Thank you. In other words, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl believes that it is acceptable not to comply with the guidelines of the Folketing and, moreover, for reasons of confidentiality. We are dealing here with people who are demanding the innermost things, who are giving us their personal papers, and who, for my part, have not been able to respond to information from politics, for example. Annette Herzog's case had been dealt with in committee or not. I simply failed to do so. Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl that it is a real practice because the Danish People's Party believes it? Do you not think that the guidelines in the Folketing should be observed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622132540	Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622132541	Yeah, well, don't worry. I was raised on the assumption that you have to abide by the rules. If my mother hears this debate, it's important to know. So I think you definitely should. But that is why one must be able to have a discussion about it, and I am simply saying in silence that the Danish People's Party is fighting for the granting of citizenship to be made transparent, and it also believes that it is based on the way the rules were originally introduced. It was intended that each individual should actually be treated here in the Assembly Hall, so that the Danes could keep up with which foreigners have Danish citizenship, Danish citizenship, and this has been changed for many, many years. But that does not change our attitude as to how this area should be dealt with in principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622132622	Thank you. The final question to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl in this round is from Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622132626	Thank you so much. A little as a follow-up to what Mrs Samira Nawa asked me about, I would like Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl explained what positive things Muslim immigration should have contributed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622132642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622132643	It's funny I need a lot of gunpowder on it. We have, for example. a person who came here as a Muslim but who has left Islam because she has found out that it is actually not a good place to be, and she can then tell us about what she has been through and what she has experienced in the Muslim environment, so that in reality it is revealed to the Danish population what challenges it is, immigration, especially by people from Muslim countries, brings to Denmark. So it is certainly a positive thing that she is now doing it. Unfortunately, she had to go through some horrible things to get there, and that was a pity, and it shows that there are problems in the Muslim environments in Denmark, and I just think the Danes should be aware of this and have their eyes completely open to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622132736	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622132737	Thank you for your answer. As a follow-up to what my colleague Mr. Alex Vanopslagh asked, I would really like to hear Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, whether Dansk Folkeparti perceives itself as a growth party or as a distribution party in the economic field.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622132756	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622132758	We are both, because we want economic growth in Denmark, but we also believe that economic growth is best created by a degree of equality. And this is also one of the points where the New Civil and Liberal Alliance is closer to each other than the Danish People's Party and New Civil are, in other words, in relation to economic policy. Because we want a Robin Hood society; we want a society in which, in reality, there is not too much difference between income groups because we believe that in the long run it creates the best conditions for growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622132831	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. There are no more brief comments. The next to be welcomed is the chairman of the Radicals, Mr President. Morten Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622132849	What's the point? It is precisely this question that burns in so many after the past year, because a great deal has really happened over the last 12 months in the world, but perhaps in reality especially in our heads. We have experienced how poor hygiene in China can soon become a home quarantine in Denmark. We have experienced what it's like to live in a safe welfare society, but suddenly fear for life and health. And we who have never tried to lose freedom have for a while experienced what it means to be unfree, so not to be able to do what we want most, whatever it is to go out or meet and throw parties for friends and family. Covid-19 has turned life upside down, and many have been thrilled to find the meaning of it all. But when reality calls and a crisis scratches, it is often clearer what it is that gives our lives meaning and keeps our society together. And what is clear to me is that the promise that we have really made to each other in Denmark is a promise to be able to live meaningful lives; that together we fight and defeat the problems that threaten to take control away from us, so that we are free to live the life that makes the most sense to us. And in this way, the corona crisis may in fact have shown us most importantly that there is no problem too great, and no mountain too steep, for us to defeat it together, and it may in fact have given us the seeds of a new faith in things in all its horrors. Because even though corona took control of us for a moment, we actually took it back with the spirit of society, with unity and common sense. Corona is a virus it doesn't make choices, it doesn't have its own will, it doesn't decide anything by itself. We do that to people; we choose and we decide and we decide how best to get through the crisis and what society we want to be on the other side. That's up to us. That is why the crisis has also given us a new hope, a new courage and perhaps a new opinion, and we need that. For the crucial choice we face is whether we should fall back or whether we should renew the old world or create a greener, freer and stronger Denmark. And as Radicals we have no doubt; since 1905 we have repeatedly challenged the state of affairs when it invaded. We have helped drive Denmark towards brighter times, and we certainly do not intend to stop doing so, on the contrary. Because Denmark needs all of us to take action so that our country gets out of the crisis better than we went into it, and therefore Denmark must be greener. At the parliamentary elections last year both young and old rose and showed that they expect Christiansborg to face the climate reality and act before it is too late. After all, it started very well after the elections. A very broad majority in the Danish Parliament came together on CO2 Denmark must again be a green pioneering country it was like the message. But since then, things have been a little bit like that with the green change. The climate discussions at Christiansborg threw around such a business as usual-gear, and the ambitious climate target that we set together did not seem to be followed by similar ambitious climate action. And I know that some people may have thought that along the way I was very impatient and perhaps also a little mean in the suck. But yes, I was through the whole emotional register in this spring when it was about the climate issue. But today is the mood better, because last night we actually broke the black state. Christiansborg came together to make a difference, parties across the political divides and the political middle confirmed to each other and to Denmark that we are dedicated not only to setting ambitious goals but also to acting. We have seen red and blue youth parties and green think tanks, companies and climate activists, the trade union movement and wise men who have long pointed out that the main engine of the green transition should be a green tax reform, so that it was cheaper to live green and more expensive to live black. And it is a wish that we have shared, and that is why it makes me both proud and happy that Christiansborg now says with a single voice that we want to make a green tax reform based on CO2 It is historic, and it does not stop here. With yesterday's climate agreement, our warmer greener, our industry greener and our current greener, and we make energy islands rather than expelling lakes. In short, it becomes greener to be a Dane. So are we in the finish line? Far from it. I noted just after the summer break that the Prime Minister said she was a social democrat before she turned green, and she is probably still gone. If it turns out in the autumn that the black state is invading again, then of course we are ready again to remind Christiansborg of all you out in reality who yearn for green change. For what has been achieved is really your victory, and we continue the fight for green change with you. But Denmark must also be freer. A lot has happened since the election on that front. Mint's home again. The children's families are on their way out of Soulsmark. The paradigm shift has been broken and Denmark has again taken quota refugees. Symbol policy loses, children wins, and step by step we set a new direction based on common sense. Here too, I think we have only just begun, because there are many places where common sense has not yet crept in. I think it lacks any sense that Danes should not live with their foreign spouse in Denmark, when everyone agrees that the greatest of all is love. But it gives a little bit of optimism that everyone could see how heartbreaking it was when, during the corona crisis, people were separated from their close friends, fiancé, pregnant, who came on the wrong side of the coronah fence in the border closures that happened. We were able to unravel that, but the truth is that we have just as many differences in everyday life when there is no corona that needs cleaning up. In our vulnerable residential areas, unemployment and crime all too often spread the legs for people to live meaningful lives, but the corona crisis has exhibited how absurd the situation can also be handled from Christiansborg. In other words, if the virus leads to unemployment, which then leads to the demolition of well-functioning and sought-after homes, then I think it loses meaning for most people, and it does not have to be that way. Nor does it make sense for equality and education in Denmark to stand still. Our so-called Minister for Gender Equality does not believe that we have a problem, and so far we have only just seen a willingness on the part of the government to stop the savings on education. Guys, we can do better than that. For education and equality are some of the best ways we have to set people free to live the life that makes sense to them. Greener, freer and stronger Denmark must be stronger and stronger. This requires us to stand together, not just at home, but with our neighbours in Europe. Because when pandemics, climate change, refugee flows and economic crises take control away from us, we will only win it back together. Alone, we're at the mercy of each other. Together, we are strong. We are Europe, and that is why it pains me when the government all too often turns its back on Europe and looks at it passively, while our neighbours to the south are fighting a desperate battle to overcome the Corona crisis. It will also be completely crazy from a Danish perspective. That is why we are continuing to fight to make it about the ally with the progressive forces across borders, who want to learn from the mistakes of the financial crisis and to make sure that we get much faster out of this crisis by lifting together with genuine solidarity and a willingness to understand that what is good for Europe is good for all of us, both those of us who are going to give a helping hand and those who need the helping hand. After the first year of a new political majority, I dare say that we are in the process of moving Denmark in a new direction. I think we have demonstrated some of the best things about Christiansborg with cooperation across the board. I think we have achieved important things and I think it is appropriate to thank both the government and the parties of the Folketing for the cooperation and the results we have achieved here. This gives the belief that we can also make hope for the future and move from symbolic policy to real solutions to real problems. It makes sense, and we're just getting started.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622133828	Thank you, sir. Morten Østergaard on behalf of the rapporteur. There are a number of questions to the rapporteur. It'll be 45 minutes from now. The first to make a brief comment is Mr Seligman. Jesper Petersen of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622133842	Thank you. Thanks for the receipt. I thought it was well placed here towards the end of the speech. Sir. Morten Østergaard referred to the EU issue. I do not entirely agree with the interpretation along the way, but at least it is well known that we can disagree on the size of the EU's future budget. On the other hand, I think that we agree that when we go down to Brussels on behalf of our country, it is important that we in Denmark can have a strong cohesion behind the government and give it a mandate that gives it the strength to negotiate on the basis of what we then agree on in that mandate. Is it not a practice, as Mr. Morten Østergaard thinks it is important to have and cherish in the Danish Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622133928	Sir. Morten Østergaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622133930	Yes, I look with great concern at the fact that, unfortunately, several parties now want Denmark out of the European Union altogether, and I think it calls for close cooperation among the parties that can see how much joy and benefit we have from strong European cooperation that cares about the thousands and thousands of Danes whose daily bread, jobs stand and fall with continued closer European cooperation. That is why it is also crucial that those parties come together and work both in the long term with a European agreement that I think is in need of, but also in the concrete sense of giving the mandates to it when the crucial decisions are to be taken, including, of course, a budget and a recovery fund that can make the restart of Europe green.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622134019	Sir. Jesper Petersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622134020	We are very much in agreement on the recognition of the importance of Europe and the European Union, also for Denmark and the Danish economy. I think so, too, sir. Morten Østergaard gives some good considerations about the mandate and about the need to stick together. That brings me to the very specific question, if not, Mr President. Morten Østergaard will wish, when we stand here again in a year's time, that we no longer have a party, the Left, which has resigned from European political cooperation, but, of course, is behind the mandates ahead of these important negotiations and that we come back to the good end we have known for decades on this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622134058	Sir. Morten Østergaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622134059	Now, of course, I used my own opportunity to be in dialogue with Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. I would like to make a few comments on the question of the defence reserve, and should we not also ensure, perhaps even this week, common ground on the recovery fund, which is, after all, part of the mandate in which there was a curfew, to put it that way? Should we not see if we can land it with a joint adoption here later this week? I think that would strengthen us if we succeed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622134132	Thank you. The next to make a brief comment is Mrs Sophie Løhde from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622134135	Thank you. As far as the previous question is concerned, it is tempting to ask the radical rapporteur the question of social democracy, but I think I will do something as boring as asking the radical rapporteur about radical policy. Now the rapporteur has been kind enough to put up with a smash, I think, several times in the course of the debate, so let me try to return it with a slightly leading question and just ask the radical rapporteur to confirm that the Radical Left is not going to vote on the other side of the summer break for a budget law which reduces employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622134208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622134209	We stand a hundred percent at the target of the economic basis for the government's formation, which is, of course, that if you permanently and materially weaken employment, you have to take other steps to counteract it. And when I put it that way, it is because some people raised some criticism of the last financial agreement, which I believe remains within that mandate, because a temporary child's check is not a lasting weakening. But in relation to the general, including major decisions in the area of pensions or other matters, if that is what you are fishing for, then it is clear that things must be linked to the economic policy that carries the government, must also bear the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622134253	Mrs. Sophie Løhde, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622134254	Yes, that is exactly the last thing I am asking about, given that we have a government that says: we really want to permanently weaken the supply of labour. And that is why I am just asking the question: if the Socialist Government could find a majority where agreement is reached on a new expensive early retirement scheme which withdraws healthy people from the labour market, then the Radical Left will not vote on it, nor if it is financed in whole or in part by the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622134325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622134327	Now, I think there was a tale in what Mrs Sophie Løhde said, because the government is, after all, formed to want to increase employment. Then there is what the Social Democrats went to the polls on, and I leave that to them safely. But the government's foundation is that employment must increase, and if initiatives are taken that weaken it, we must take counter-productive initiatives that offset it. And that is what is also the litmus test for overall economic policy, where it is of course obvious to take stock of a financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622134358	Thank you. The next one to which I would like to give the floor is Mr Spencer. Kristian Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622134403	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard is happy. He's one of them. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). And then Mr. Morten Østergaard, in his rapporteur's speech here a few moments ago, said that, in the field of foreigners too, we are moving step by step and that we have only just begun. That is why I think it would be natural to ask Mr. Morten Østergaard, if he can mention such a thing next, let us say two or three points on the list of foreigners' concessions which the Radicals want to see implemented. When you say you have only just begun, what are the next few things that are the most important for the Radicals in terms of relaxing foreign policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622134445	Sir. Morten Østergaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622134447	I can start by welcoming the fact that by the end of the week, we will then have adopted some key elements that bring common sense back into foreign policy. I don't think I'm gonna fight it, as sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl does, in tightenings and relaxations; I do so in symbol policy or right solutions. And, for example, I do not think it is a real solution to decide, as a consequence of rising unemployment during the corona crisis, that you have to go out with the bulldozer and tear down perhaps recently renovated general housing, best that you have allocated billions to renovate some others just to take an example of something you could throw yourself over. The second example I mentioned is the possibility for ordinary Danes to live in their own country with their spouse. All the inquiries we got here during the corona crisis, when the border closures prevented it, I think I really touched many of us. And we may forget that there are Danes today who live in Flensburg or Malmö, because they have been so, you might say, unfortunately to fall in love outside the country's borders. And I think that is actually unreasonable, that is to say that we should be punished for it in a world where we meet more and more cross-country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622134552	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622134553	Well, sir. Morten Østergaard can call it what he wants. If something is a tightening, or something of a relaxation, then that's what you can call one thing or the other; it doesn't really matter. I think the interesting thing is that something lies ahead of us because we have only just begun, as Mr. Morten Østergaard says to relax or remove the policy of symbols or to relax the policy of foreigners. - Sir... Morten Østergaard also confirms here during the closing debate that the Radicals believe that the so-called paradigm shift, that is, the return policy, has been undermined by some of the decisions taken in the past parliamentary year?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622134629	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622134631	I can certainly confirm that the legislative proposal that is adopted as a new business scheme means that refugees who are here have the opportunity to stay under the conditions that apply there if they, through work, show that they can contribute to Danish society. This prevents what was wanted, namely that no matter how well one integrates, one cannot stay. That is where the water is probably divorcing a little, because if what we want succeeds, it means that the Danish economy is getting stronger. We are deeply dependent on employment in this area too, and every time it does, we get more money in the box.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622134712	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next person who has asked for a brief comment is Mrs Signe Munk from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622134715	Thank you for a good and green speech from the radical rapporteur. I know that the Radicals have been particularly concerned to have a green tax reform and to have a change in our climate taxes in relation to a higher CO2 tax. At the same time, I was also able to read here recently that the radical rapporteur was out sharing tax gifts both in relation to companies and income tax and in terms of social compensation. We agree with the social compensation, but I just want to hear how it has come about in the green thinking of the Radicals, that all of a sudden corporate tax reductions have to be granted in connection with such a green tax restructuring, because in reality it is just to give a discount on the profits generated by companies in Denmark. So I want to hear how that idea came about in the Radical Left and how you got it wrapped in green paper.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622134811	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622134812	Fortunately, this is relatively simple, because we all agree that the money that comes in from an increased CO2 and, after all, the question is how to send money back to companies, and there will be some competitive companies that need a bottom-up deduction so that we do not have job relocations. Otherwise, however, the most obvious way of returning money to companies is to introduce a lower corporation tax, and that is why the proposal is coming, and we will have to see how far we can go. But I would just warn the SF against taking the view that one is opposed to companies that have profits. It is a good idea for companies to make profits. We should be pleased about that. The more, the better the bigger the profits, the better.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622134900	Mrs. Signe Munk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622134902	Profits are good, and making a contribution to the welfare society from its profits is also good, and that is precisely why we have corporation tax. What is the challenge is that when you look at the Climate Council and Kraka's calculations of such a CO2 they actually say it is revenue-neutral. So I just want to hear the Radical Left: where will the money for reducing corporation tax come from if there is no profit when you put climate taxes on so that CO2 is turned off from education, or is it from day-care institutions? Who's gonna pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622134937	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622134938	The fact that a reform is revenue-neutral simply means that all the money you require is sending back again, so it just means that it has to be financed. We are so open to it for a period of time in order to help the economy, that it could be done with many tax reforms. builds CO2 But what it is all about here is that if we get supported a business structure in Denmark, where more and more people all pay more and more into corporation tax, because it is going well for companies, so there is money for more training. That is why I am just calling for the SF to think again about the fact that this is actually a good thing, because the more companies that are in Denmark and that have profits and pay corporation tax, the better it is for welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622135029	Thank you. The next to make a brief comment is Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622135033	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I also agree with the point that it should not be those who live in the so-called ghetto parks who have to pay for the crisis we are in right now. But it is also one of the things I would like to talk about, in other words what we should do in the economic crisis that comes in the wake of the corona crisis. The last time we had an economic crisis, the daily allowance period was shortened, people fell out of the system and many did not get any help because, for example, they did not receive any assistance. had a car or a small capital savings. Then the former radical leader Margrethe Vestager said to the many people in the difficult situation: that is the way it is. Now we are in a crisis again, and many have lost their jobs, and we know that more are at risk when the suspension of the daily allowance stops. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur whether the Radicals will help to restore the daily allowance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622135126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622135127	Basically, we have already stated ourselves quite openly in the past this year to discuss the future benefit system in terms of how to compensate, because it is in the interests of all of us that as many people as possible should insure against unemployment and that it does not gradually become less and less attractive. So we are completely open to that discussion. If we do not believe that this is a crisis tool beyond what we have done, that is to say to increase the daily allowance rate or whatever it may be, then it is because what is at stake here in the crisis is that we are creating new jobs. That is why we think it was wise to give companies a deduction for investing in research and development, because this could lead to more people getting a job. And in the negotiations that were in the field of employment, we had an enormous focus on, among other things. graduates and the opportunities they have to enter companies. That is why we have been more concerned about opening the door to businesses in the context of crisis policy and getting jobs going rather than extending the benefit period.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622135226	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622135227	I fully agree that we need to create jobs and, like, green jobs. This fits fantasticly with the green transition that we are in the process of doing right now. I am glad that the rapporteur says that Radicals are open to discussing it, but when I ask, it is because I am surprised that what I have been told now is that tomorrow you will be voting against us having the Minister call for negotiations on the daily allowance, on the recovery of the daily allowance, because there is nothing specific about it being one thing or the other; it is just about restoring the daily allowance, so it is fairly open. And radicals also supported it in the first place, which is why I just don't understand why it all of a sudden sounds like you're going to vote against tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622135306	Sir. Morten Østergaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622135307	After all, Mrs Victoria Velasquez started by saying that we have contributed to reforms along the way in the wake of the financial crisis, and some of those reforms are the reason why we have been able to take all these initiatives, make dead periods in the many hooks of the employment system, invest in new jobs and such things. And when we want to go a different way than that resolution, it is of course because we know that it is those parties that have typically taken responsibility for the reforms that must also take responsibility for the future benefit system if there is to be coherence and to be able to invest in future crises as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622135345	Thank you. The next one to make a brief comment is Mr Seligman. Søren Pape Poulsen of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622135350	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. Now I think we are approaching something that might remind us of today's highlight or perhaps one of them, because this holiday money question I have quite consistently put all the way through, and I intend to keep doing that perhaps. 100,000 Danes are about to be top tax payers by 2020 only because they get holiday money. I think I read in Jyllands-Posten some positive reports from the Radical Left that this would be looked at. I would say right away that there should not be any fine sensations here. We are open to any model it might be, but will the Radical Left help to ensure that by 2020 you do not have to enter the top tax because you get your holiday money paid?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622135439	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622135441	What was agreed on last Sunday was quite a massive investment that would make money into society, which would make the wheels work again. Perhaps I might be a little surprised at the discussion that, if you give them an increased income, people will end up paying more taxes unless you make other decisions when you make the agreement and that it comes as a shock to people. But our desire is to get the money out to work, and if there is a willingness to get more money out to work, then we are happy to discuss it in that area of agreement. But I may be a little surprised that it seems that it is something that has come as such as a lightning from a clear sky for people. It is no wonder that if people get an increase in income, someone also gets an increase in taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622135531	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622135532	No, there isn't, and that's how you pay taxes on your income. That is absolutely right. Now it's in this process, you could say, not calculated how many days it's gonna take. At any rate, it has come, I would be honest to say, as a surprise to me. I'm not so smarter than that I hadn't imagined that there would be 100,000 new top tax payers, only we agree that this money is going to live in society. The whole idea of that is that they must go out and create jobs, strengthen consumption. That's not gonna happen if they just leave the money behind. So I'm just asking, are we going to find a solution or are we not going to find a solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622135612	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622135613	Well, as I have said, there is plenty of coinage to the agreement that we must, of course, have in place, and we only have a wish that as much money as possible should come into society and contribute within the framework we have made. But I'm just wondering why it could come as such a surprise. But, as I said, we must discuss in the circle how we translate all the decisions that have been taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622135638	Thank you. The next person who has asked for a brief comment is Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622135643	Thank you for the floor. The election campaign noted that the Radical Left conducted a very active election campaign in the residential areas characterised by Islamic values and where many of the unintegrable immigrants live. I assume that it gave a bonus on the night of the election, and every vote counts and is worth the same amount, and all citizens of this country have the same and full civil rights, so it is perfectly legitimate to turn Islamic voices into radicals. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether there has been any reaction to this particular election campaign by the party in the ghettos. In other words, are the voters in the areas of Islamic values satisfied with the radical Left's defence of their interests in the past year?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622135734	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622135736	I do not have the slightest idea of that, in that respect. I am delighted with it every time I meet someone who is satisfied with our work. But it may also be because it is a rather foreign approach, I think, to politics that you sort of divide the votes according to religious affiliation. I have no idea, and I am delighted to live in a country where no one can reasonably know anything about the religious beliefs of those who voted. But, on the other hand, I would like to say that I have noticed, I think, the merit of the discussion in this area recently and in the wake of a parliamentary election in which it also filled quite a lot. Let me give you an example here: I saw that there were some who had been to LinkedIn to see how many with foreign sounding names worked in the Foreign Affairs Agency. And in relation to that, I receive emails from people who send me pictures of employees there and ask if it's not a problem. And I would just like to warn against a development in Denmark where, on the basis of the belief that one can guess which religion people have on the basis of their name, one does not believe that they can hold certain positions. And I think that all responsible politicians actually have a responsibility to do away with it. And Mrs Pernille Vermund can do that now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622135847	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622135848	That is absolutely right. All responsible politicians have a responsibility for this, and that is why it is imperative that we create an alien policy in which the problems do not get worse year by year, but where they are solved from scratch. When we are so focused on the fact that we should not bow to Islamic special requirements when we are so focused on the fact that Islam should not influence our society, and when we are focused on the fact that foreigners in Denmark must support themselves, comply with our legislation and respect our values, it is because we can see what Islam does to democratic societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622135927	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622135928	Well, it's about how you look at the world, and I don't look at the world through that kind of religious spectacle. When I just arrest it, what Mrs Pernille Vermund doesn't think I was able to do very well, but I have an opportunity later on the platform to do so, then you might have time to think about it, because it is strange to say that you think the most important thing is that we have an immigration and integration policy, where people contribute, if you are not able to distance yourself from people being hanged out, because they actually have a job, because it is in the Foreign Affairs Agency, and because some think that they have foreign-sounding names. I think it would suit New Citizens, despite all our disagreements, to participate in the condemnation of this kind of squeezing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140009	The next person who has asked for a brief comment is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140013	Who would like to begin by thanking for a well-off and well-written speech marked by some thoughtfulness. You could tell a little time had been spent on that. That's nice. Thank you. On to the discussion on a green tax reform and congratulations on the agreement last night. One senses that perhaps the most important feature of the rapporteur's party is the question of the green transition in the coming years, and there we probably share a consensus that the wise thing is to create a uniform CO2 and that does not have to be revenue-neutral; one can actually go further than that, so it will be a growth reform and, of course, there is a huge reluctance on the part of the government. You had to go with the blue parties to get it into this agreement, and in relation to the tax part and to making reforms that create growth, it is all of the red parties, including the government, who are opposed to it. The question is whether the radical Left has actually found the right block, i.e. if you do not belong in the blue block instead, in relation to their most important issue, when you agree more with the majority of the blue block.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140121	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140122	Well, that's a little too bad. Alex Vanopslagh said that after 12 months you have already been grazed into block political thinking. If we are to make a green tax reform that will hold and be the main engine of the green transition until 2030, then we should not do it with block policy, then we should do it with broad cooperation. And that's one of the reasons why the deal we made yesterday was so amazing. It contained, among other things. I also know that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur could hardly be in his body of mere enthusiasm for all these tax reductions. This simply shows that, although the Liberal Alliance was not included in the agreement on the Climate Act, there is plenty of good liberal policy to operate, including in the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140207	Sir. Van opslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140208	However, it does not give any thought to the fact that on the most important issue, the question of the green transition, there is greater agreement with the blue parties to produce a uniform CO2 because that is the next step. It is not enough just to create burdens and charges. It cannot stand alone; I think so too, Mr President. Morten Østergaard agrees. After all, the willingness to reform is also necessary for the next 10 years: the willingness to reform to lower corporation tax, to lower capital taxation, and thus to reduce some of the taxes that are most damaging to Danish business. If it is with the blue parties that you can achieve your green ambitions, does it not provide food for thought in relation to which Prime Minister's candidate you should point out?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140243	Sir. Morten Østergaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140244	What is our aim in this parliamentary term is to deliver on the promise made in the last elections that the climate should now be at the top of the agenda, and I really think we came a long way yesterday. And what's interesting is that what I think Mr. Alex Vanopslagh and I agree that a uniform CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140322	Thank you. The next to speak is the rapporteur of the alternative, Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140326	From here we would also like to thank you very much for a very good speech and very good cooperation, not least last night in connection with the agreement that was made. We agree that this was a strong agreement. We'll give Mr. Morten Østergaard is right that it is not enough. We must, of course, move on. One of the best is the climate taxes that were adopted. We know that we will have to negotiate in the autumn and so on, and I am not going to put the rapporteur's detailed answer to an agreement that we made tonight, where it is the next morning, but we are really happy that the polluter has to pay. But one thing is that money comes in; another thing is that we have to spend that money and that they somehow have to get out again. There is just one thing I am lurking at, and it may be that I have just misunderstood it, but am I to understand that the Radicals in the preliminary statements allow the money that some polluters have paid in climate tax to come back to even the same polluters through reductions in corporation tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140429	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140431	Yes, sir. Torsten Gejl understood perfectly correctly, and the point is that if you want a green and sustainable business in Denmark, you should want companies that are sustainable and that produce green, have profits and can afford to invest more. Therefore, there is no need to tax harder. We need to tax properly. There it is just that I am saying that the best way to bring money back to businesses so that it hits everyone in general and rewards everyone equally, is through the corporation tax and then in return let the polluter pay. It is isolated and socio-economically the wisest way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140512	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140513	Okay, well, maybe I'm the one who doesn't quite understand it. I just do not understand that if it is the case that the polluter pays a tax for its CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140540	No, on the contrary, because that means that if you don't pollute, you get richer. Then the company gets to keep some more of its profits. That is why it gives the strongest possible incentive to reduce its pollution. That is why the view of allowing it to be controlled by a CO2 What is exactly the main point is that such a model will drive any rational company to reduce its pollution in order to keep some more of the money it has earned.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140612	Thank you. Then it was the social democracy's turn again, and it is Mr. Malte Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140616	Thank you very much. I'd also like to sign for mr. Morten Østergaard's nice words about the night's climate agreement. Sir. Morten Østergaard was recently out with Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen on a joint proposal for a CO2 It is nice when there is cooperation in here, and I am glad that even more parties have been in the night's agreement. But in an article this weekend's Berlingske, you could understand that this proposal is only when you drive around in four Hummere, that you have to experience that it becomes more expensive and that you get more costs. I would just like to ask whether it can be understood that this is the level of ambition of the joint motion by the Radicals with the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140657	Sir. Morten Østergaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140659	I'm really glad, along with the Left, to be able to stand with the proposal to make this uniform CO2 and I think that was a good picture, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen used. This means, of course, that if you have a consumption of that nature, you will find that the cost increases if you make a CO2 Therefore I now saw it more as an illustration of the basic point that even if the tax reform does not make it more expensive to be a Dane, of course everyone will be affected, and if you have such consumption, you will be affected more than people who do not have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140737	Sir. Malte Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140738	I also understand that it is such a very exaggerated picture that is being used in that article. But perhaps Mr. Morten Østergaard help me get closer where it is then, the border goes. Who really wants to see it become more expensive, and who might see it become cheaper? Where's the border? For the exaggerated example of the four Hummeres, we can all understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140802	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140803	The whole point of making a tax reform based on a uniform CO2 Therefore, of course, it will be experienced by some more than others, but it will depend on the choices they make. What is important for me to say is that I think we can have a social balance where we can ensure that everyone can afford to make the green choices, but it is important to stick to the fact that nobody should not see that it has a meaning, whether they choose green or black. Otherwise, it won't work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140840	The next person who has asked to speak is Mrs Bjerre from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140844	Thank you. I note that the radical leader is pleased with what has been achieved in the climate area with the agreement yesterday. But I have also noted that the Radical Left feels that things are going too slowly and that too little is happening in the climate area with this government, and we share that frustration. And that's why I'd like to hear Mr. Morten Østergaard: Who experiences the Radical Left in the current climate negotiations is the easiest to cooperate with the Left or the Social Democracy? I could also ask in another way: does the Radical Left think that in the current negotiations the Left is more ambitious on the climate issue than the Social Democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140919	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140920	Well, in the recent negotiations, the ones we carried out yesterday, yes, there was more ambition, among other things. with the announcement of a coal stop in 2025, a wish I share but which did not find its way to the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140937	Mrs. Marie Bjerre, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140938	Thank you. I'd like to sign for that, and it's the same experience we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140942	Great.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140944	Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622140951	Thank you. I would like to concentrate a little on the subject which has always been of great interest to the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party, each with its completely opposing view. Now I noticed that Mr. Morten Østergaard mentioned the responsible politicians. I would call it the irresponsible politicians who have been pursuing this immigration policy for a long time. I'm just gonna ask sir. Morten Østergaard: Mr. Morten Østergaard and the Radical Left, that immigration is not just the individual immigrant, but immigration from North Africa and the Middle East has brought anything positive to Danish society? I am talking about the massive immigration that we have unfortunately had to accept because there has been the wrong majority for quite many years. The Danish People's Party has limited it, but it has not completed our policy, because there has not been a majority in favour of it. There isn't now, unfortunately, but we're still fighting. But I just want to know whether immigration itself as such has brought something positive or something negative to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622141053	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622141054	I stand and think it is a little exciting here with Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, who, after having had a central role, it can be said that the first two decades of this century still hold out by acquiescing themselves of responsibility for the policy pursued. It's kind of special, I think. The crucial mandates have been in place for many years. Of course, we are using the crucial mandates that are now ours to promote our policy, which is to solve the real problems and to base it on common sense instead of symbolic policy. I think there were many Danes who thought it strange that the elderly could get a very small increase in their income, but on the other hand half billions could be spent on expulsion lakes in Stege Bay. That was a strange priority. However, there has been no immigration from the countries mentioned by Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. There have been refugees, and that is something quite different. We believe that Denmark should take humanitarian responsibility for refugees. And yes, every day thousands of people with refugee backgrounds go to work in Denmark and contribute. They'd be missing if they weren't there to solve those tasks. Then there are some who do not yet have a job. It is, of course, a challenge, but the others would surely be missing if they were not there to work where they are now doing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622141203	Thank you. Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622141203-2	Well, I'm happy to accept the responsibility of the heart that we've been fighting for 25 years. I myself have been doing this for even more years, but at least 25 years in the Danish People's Party. And I take responsibility on behalf of my party for the fact that we have done so much in a way that has been mentioned before, but I would like to mention it again so that this does not look like Sweden. Because if we hadn't done it, it would have been Sweden or worse with a great deal of radical influence. After all, it has not been, but we would very much like to go further. But I didn't get an answer. I did not get an answer as to whether the immigration from North Africa and the Middle East, which has been through quite many years with the blessing and great support of the Radical Left, is positive or negative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622141245	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622141245-2	But that is because Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard deliberately chooses to use the wrong words. We have had immigration stops for many years in Denmark. After all, we have to go all the way back to the guest workers from Turkey, so that we had immigration. Then it is true that when you are a refugee, you can have family reunification, and of course you have to be able to do so. But I just want to stick to the fact that when asked whether it has a positive contribution, my thoughts fall on the incredibly many people with refugee backgrounds and their families who contribute every day to the common welfare through their tax payments by contributing in public and private companies. I stress, just so that no one should be in doubt, that they would be missing if they were not here and their contributions would be missing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622141328	Thank you. The next person who has asked to speak is Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark for SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622141332	Thank you. I recall a slogan called "We are also listening to economists." I was wondering when I heard Mr. Morten Østergaard's answer to Mrs Signe Munk is that right now there are a number of think tanks which say that a green tax reform is needed. There is also a political majority in favour of this, on which a number of economists agree. You say that green tax reform will be revenue-neutral. In other words, when you raise green taxes and let the polluter pay, some of it has to finance the green measures that are needed. This leaves no room for tax relief. There is no room in the economy for this change unless you really let the polluter pay a lot, but I do not read that in the Radicals' plan. In other words, the money for tax relief must come from somewhere. I just want to know where that place is. What is that education, is it children, is the school, is the green transition that has to pay for the tax relief promised to Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622141430	Sir. Morten Østergaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622141431	It's gonna run away for Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark, I can sense. Let us start where we ended yesterday evening in peace and happiness: a green tax reform based on the 'polluter pays' principle with a high CO2 level is needed. The only thing we are discussing is how they should be brought back and at what rate they should be brought back. I say so as an opening on our part... you may disagree with the fact that it can support the economic restart of Denmark, that you might bring the money back more quickly before raising CO2 We can discuss this, but how to bring the money back is an entirely open question. This can be done in different ways, and there is certainly something about bottom-up deductions and this kind of thing for competitive companies, but taking them back to companies via corporate tax is just the thing that gives the slightest distortion and where you get the most spanking for the bill. But the point is that it is money that comes in that has to go back, and we are in agreement on that, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622141533	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622141534	You don't get very much green spanking on corporate tax benefits, because that's where you just reward everyone, including those who aren't green. If you now make a green tax reform, using the proceeds to make green measures and ensuring that there is social balance, then the money has to come from somewhere else. That's what I'm hearing, sir. Morten Østergaard says that you are then ready to underfinance. Then you are simply ready not to find the money to pick it up later. To that, I just want to say that Mr. Morten Østergaard wants to see unfunded corporate tax relief, and I just want to hear that: if it was not better to underfinance with the dynamic effects of, for example, the company. education or good welfare in the day institutions, rather than doing so with corporate tax reductions?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622141611	Sir. Morten Østergaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622141612	But it's an artificial conflict, sir. Jacob Mark wants to create. We, as I said in my speech a few moments ago, want to invest more in education and give priority to the common scope for it. What we are talking about in the area of tax reform is how the money paid by companies in increased CO2 means that and why it is the most socio-economically right thing to opt for a CO2 tax is, of course, that it is not Mr. Jacob Mark or myself, who has to sit and decide what businesses have to do, but that they do it themselves because the financial incentives turn right. The second is a choice of method. There, too, we can disagree on how to phase in tax reform. I just want to say that the last tax reform we made together was also phased in with under-financing at the beginning to help us out of the last crisis we were in. So more welfare enemy it is not than that SF has previously been involved in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622141704	Thank you. The last one to be noted for a brief comment is Mr Seligman. Niels Flemming Hansen. There is a little extra time, so if there are more who would like a brief comment, then it is now. There was. Here you go, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622141714	Thank you very much. And now for something completely different. After all, Danish companies are currently very hard pressed as a result of the corona crisis, which is why a number of aid packages have been made, and we in the Conservative People's Party are very happy about this. But I would like to ask Mr. Morten Østergaard, on the perception of inheritance taxation by the Radicals, has changed in connection with the covid-19. They're about these. 23,000 companies, which will have to change over the next 10 years, and the 300,000 employees whose jobs will be at risk in the light of the somewhat higher tax that has been paid on business transfers and inheritance taxes. Mr. Morten Østergaard, that it is still wise to withdraw more money from the companies than is necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622141801	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622141801-2	In the wake of the Corona crisis, the committee we set up in the context of the financial law negotiations, which was supposed to solve the part of the task which the Conservative People's Party neglected when it sat in government, namely to have a proper basis for inheritance taxation. As is well known, however, we did not vote in favour of the reduction that was made at the time, which is why hardly anyone was surprised that we were not obliged to maintain it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622141851	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622141852	You could say that. After all, a study has been carried out where 13,000 owner managers in Denmark have been asked about their relationship to the generational change, and why you want to do it or not, whether you want to sell the company or the like, and that has 61 per cent. the answer that the high inheritance tax is the reason why they choose to dispose of their business instead of taking it on to the next generation. That seems to me to put a lot of Danish jobs at risk, especially in a coronatide. Is this an area where Mr. Morten Østergaard sees that we could speed up a process a little?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622141926	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622141927	I fully recognise the issue, and that is why we want to look at how to tax people who make generational changes. The problem is that if a situation is created where you are actually in a better financial position, or at least in a safer and more predictable situation, if you just have the company sold off, then we are contributing to a business structure that we certainly do not want to have. We want family-owned businesses, and we think it is entirely up to people themselves whether it should be passed on to the next generation or whether we want to solve it in other ways, and there must be reasonable and predictable conditions for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622142002	Thank you. It's a lot of questions, and all of a sudden there's a lot of people on it. We can only make one more. If Mrs. Jette Gottlieb is fast, we can make two. Here you go, Mrs. Jette Gottlieb from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622142012	Yes, I am very fast. Now I became aware that Mr. Morten Østergaard was concerned with the high and rising unemployment we have seen, and we expect an explosion this autumn as a result of many things, but especially because the packages that have been to support are being abolished. After all, unemployment is particularly affecting young people who, for the first time, have to enter the labour market and something like that. Now I'm going to ask sir. Morten Østergaard, how the Radicals feel about the timing of voting in a few months' time for us to increase the retirement age by one year, as has been agreed in the past. The reason I ask is, of course, that I am looking to know if there is any possibility of renegotiating.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622142104	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622142104-2	As far as young people are concerned, with our employment rapporteur, we have fought hard to ensure that a hand has also been given to graduates in the context of the agreement reached in the field of employment. In relation to the retirement age, we are completely at the welfare settlement and the withdrawal reform, and we are doing so because we know that it means so much to the welfare that we must have in the coming years that it is being phased in completely as it has been agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622142132	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622142135	Yes, but then I want to ask you about the timing in this context. Was it not a good idea to consider whether it was right now that the retirement age should be increased? Or is it not right now that we should perhaps consider whether we could get some of the young people into the ordinary labour market? I'm not talking about special schemes for graduates and things like that, but I'm talking about getting them into the ordinary labour market. There will then be a very good effect in the fact that some of those who have previously expected them to retire at the age of 68 will have an opportunity to retire at the age of 68.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622142212	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622142212-2	The decision we are going to take in the autumn here has a perspective of 15 years, and I certainly hope that we will be out of the economic crisis by then. Otherwise, we might have other problems. But basically I would just like to warn against thinking that weakening total employment in Denmark brings something good with it. On the contrary, it is about increasing the workforce, and we are not doing so gradually in the years to come, among other things. With the help of foreign labour, we will have a problem financing just the welfare we know.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622142238	Thank you. The time for questions to Mr. Morten Østergaard has left, so there are no further brief comments to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur we should welcome is the SF rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622142251	Normally, this Chamber is a battleground, but there has been nothing normal about the past parliamentary year, so this is not a battle speech either. It's something as unusual as a speech of gratitude. When I sat and took stock of this parliamentary year, it was the word that kept popping up with me: gratitude. A model of society must prove its worth in crises. People's rule must prove its worth in crises. And this crisis has proved the worth of the Danish welfare model, and it has shown the worth of our people's rule. I am deeply grateful that the corona has not spread more than it has up until now. I am deeply grateful that we, together with the government, shut down in time and that we did not meet the covid-19 with sloping safety, but with humility. I would like to thank our Prime Minister in particular for taking the lead when uncertainty was greatest, in giving priority to human lives over the economy. And I would also like to thank all of you who are sitting in this Chamber from the extreme right to the extreme left. We showed that we could stand together in spite of differences and without running a political campaign on a crisis situation. And I am deeply grateful to all the citizens who, from one day to the next, embraced the new life. Thanks to all of you who sat behind the box in Netto and Facts and Føtex when the infection was at its peak; to bus drivers, to the employees in the industry who kept Denmark running when everything was shut down; to the health staff who went to work with a smile, although they were the most exposed to the disease that we did not yet know the consequences of and which we still don't know for real. We don't have a vaccine. We still have to navigate in unsafe waters, and that is not done by setting all sails, closing our eyes and with a blind belief that it will be all right. A mink farm is hit by corona. In Hjørring, the disease has reappeared. It's too early to lower your guard. And it is because, among other things, we have a very special responsibility towards our vulnerable citizens. It's your responsibility and mine, it's the responsibility of the whole community not to have to pay the highest price for too quick a reopening. We need to proceed cautiously, but we need to get going, and it does not matter how we set the Danish economy in motion. As I see it, we are faced with two paths in Danish politics: a path in which improved welfare, justice and green conversion are the guiding principles, and a path in which we cling to a tax freeze, even proposing tax reductions that are neither fair nor promote our common climate and environmental objectives. SF is going to push for us to go the first way. I have raised my hand against the government, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the parties behind the understanding paper, to say: let us sit together and confirm the direction; let us agree on the framework for the economic recovery of Denmark and for next year's Finance Act. For two things, the two things should be linked; I think we actually owe that to the electorate. We were elected on a mandate of hope and optimism for a new green policy, to rebuild prosperity and confidence in the community. That is why I would like to extend that hand again today. Let's deliver on that hope. After all, we got off to a good start before the Corona crisis with climate legislation and an agreement on minimum standards, perhaps the two most important improvements for which this government will be remembered. We have removed usury interest rates on quick loans, we have received more beds in psychiatry, we have received money for more primary school teachers, and last night we landed the first part of a very important climate action plan. It was late, but it was good. Unfortunately, however, many other important areas have come to a standstill. We in the SF had to push by a majority around the government, in fact together with the Left, to get the work started to clean up the large generation pollutions that lie in Danish nature, among other things. by polite 42. There are still too many deaths due to air pollution, despite a clear agreement in the centre-left that we should deliver immediately after the elections. We lack the great psychiatry and health plan; we lack a solution for Arne, yes, for those with a long working life who continue to be worn out before they can retire; we lack a thorough review of the early retirement reform. The clock's ticking, the pace has to go up. In some areas it actually needs to be reduced a little. I believe that many people have experienced more time for reflection during the corona crisis, because even though the children have had to go to school in a completely new way, I hear that the smaller classes and more education outside have given more quiet, more room for everyone to join the community. In the care of the elderly, permanent and well - known staff have created security and time for presence. Many children in crèches and kindergartens have also experienced security and calm when the blue living room was divided into smaller units, yes, for the first time in their institutional life, some children have experienced minimum standards. We must build on these experiences on children, the elderly, yes, all adults need a little more calm. Let us have a calm reform so that our children do not go down with stress even before life has really begun. Now the government is going on summer vacation, and I would recommend to the ministers that they relax, because after the summer break we must begin to deliver on the mandate of hope and faith in change that we received in the last elections. And again: Thank you for your cooperation in this unusual past parliamentary year. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622142929	Thank you. We shall now proceed to brief remarks. First, it's sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622142935	Thank you. Thankfulness was now a word that the rapporteur emphasized. And I understand that there are some people who have been helped by these various crisis packages and who are grateful. But then there are some groupings we need. We are faced with the risk that with the ghetto laws there may be some areas on the hard ghetto list, so that people risk losing their homes. And these areas are measured by how many people are unemployed and measured by what average income is. So my question is whether the SF will help us suspend the ghettoists for a few years while this economic crisis continues. Because there are some areas out there that have struggled hard not to get on the hard ghetto list, some areas where you have really helped the residents to get to work and where you have done all sorts of things. Then there will be such a crisis here, which is hitting to a large extent unskilled people and people in the service sector and the residents living in the general housing sector who cannot, of course, help this crisis to come. Will the SF help suspend the ghetto list?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622143047	SF's rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622143048	First of all, I would like to say that some of what I am happy about with these aid packages, apart from the fact that it is a broad majority in the Danish Parliament that has helped to adopt them, is that they have not only held their hands under the economy or companies, as we saw after the financial crisis, but that they have also held their hands under, among others. the unemployed, that is to say that we have jointly decided to increase the dead period for people on unemployment benefit, sickness benefit and the 225-hour rule; there I think both SF and Enhedslisten have fought bravely and ensured that there is a balance in this. I am just saying this so that you do not get the wrong impression that the aid packages have only helped some; in fact, I think it has been some help packages that have helped widely and it has been important for the SF. In relation to the ghetto package, I would like to say that what this is about for me is that we ensure mixed residential areas. Basically, I do not think it is right that one should grow up in a residential area with lower conditions to get a job later in life or an education later in life than if one had not lived there. I think that all young people, all children, all women and all men should have the opportunity to have the good life. This can only be achieved with mixed residential areas, which is why I am so concerned about securing some of the funds that come to the ghetto packages.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622143203	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622143204	So I have to ask again because I did not get an answer to my question, which is: will the SF help to suspend the ghetto legislation? And that, among other things. The reason for this is that in Lundtoftegade a letter has been sent to a number of politicians, whether it would not be a good solution to suspend the ghetto laws for three years and thus make sure that there are no seven new areas that will be preparing such a settlement plan in 2021, in which we reduce the number of general housing. I didn't get an answer to that, i.e. SF will be involved in such a suspension because of this corona crisis, which hits unskilled people much harder than, what to say, the average population.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622143242	Thank you. Here you go, SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622143244	I fully agree that it hits the unskilled much harder than many others. That is why we have also made a number of initiatives, including: In terms of raising the daily allowance, for example, when you are in receipt of unemployment benefit. receive continuing training. I think that is a good thing. Because there are so many people who experience that they do not get the s in breast-feeding chances. That's why it has to be more mixed. We're gonna have a mixed school where you meet across, or it's not the people's school. You have to have day care facilities where you meet people who are in work as well as those who are without work. Then I am willing to discuss whether concrete solutions can be found on the basis of corona. But I do not share the basic premise that the ghetto packages are bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622143336	Then it's Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622143338	Thank you. I was actually going to move on to the same question, but I think it is almost possible to hear the conclusion of the rapporteur's reply here in the second round, namely that, in the wake of corona and this extraordinary situation, the SF is willing to look at whether the pause button can also be pressed in the ghetto regions. I would like to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622143402	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622143404	I think that the reason why I am a little concerned about the general picture is that I think that in certain parties in the Folketing there is a tendency to neglect the problems we have in these areas. There are children who are not given the opportunity to get an education on equal terms with others; there are women who are not given the opportunity to live the life that other women have in Denmark, who become isolated and are not given the opportunity to speak Danish. These are, in fact, the problems I think we should deal with in Denmark. Then there may well be some very specific things in relation to corona that I am willing to look at, but I am not willing to do away with the basic way of breaking the negative social heritage for these people. I think they deserve a chance in the same way as other people in Denmark. You must not only live in Hellerup to have the fat life; you must also be allowed to live in Tingbjerg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622143451	Samira Nawa, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622143453	I fully agree, and that is why I think that it was probably parties other than the Radical Left that were referred to in the first round. But something else is that I would like to hear whether the SF will help put pressure on us to bring home the Danish children who are currently in Syrian refugee camps, because it is totally unacceptable and frankly a disgrace that we let Danish children suffer both physically and psychologically. I want to know if SF backs up on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622143521	Yes, we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622143523	Thank you for that, and then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622143530	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr says that we must deliver in hope, but I have to say that more needs to be done. In the Danish People's Party we wanted 1 billion to be earmarked. kr. in the finance law for the elderly, and Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr was in agreement with that, but after a financial agreement, we found that what was set aside was 125 million. kr. for debureaucratisation in the care of the elderly. In other words, more money was actually allocated to abolishing user charges on Danish education for foreigners. That is why I would like to hear the SF's rapporteur: how have the elderly actually labeled SF as a support party for a government now? So, in the Danish People's Party, we would have liked to have the rock card scheme included in the Service Act. Neither has the SF been able to support that. So what will SF do to ensure that we get a good and dignified care for the elderly in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622143629	Pia Olsen Dyhr, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622143630	I am so pleased that Mrs Karina Adsbøl mentions the rock map, because it was a SF invention in the City of Copenhagen to give the elderly an option. If you imagine that some of the most vulnerable elderly people would have some extra time, what would they do with it? Many of them have chosen to spend it on trips outside or come down to shopping and other things, and I like the idea that you have time, that you have peace of mind, and I am going to fight for that. This is also true in relation to the permanent teams in the care of the elderly, which I think has become very important, not least in the coronatide, so you see that it is the same that comes, and if there is an infection, you can do something about it. Then the rapporteur asks specifically why we did not deliver 1 billion. kr. to the elderly in the Finance Act. We have delivered an older package of 125 million. kr. That is true, but in addition we have also delivered the boost that is being made in KL and the regions in relation to more elderly people. In addition, more money has also been provided for our health services, which, unfortunately, we know the elderly use a little more often than the rest of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622143735	Karina Adsbøl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622143736	It's amazing that you have to hear that you're hiding under that boost, because this was beyond the demographic trait. This was an ear tag of 1 billion. kr. to the elderly on whom the SF went to the polls. And what have the elderly been given? At least they haven't gotten 1 billion. kr. earmarked. The rapporteur then says that the cutting-card system was a SF invention. Then it is a mystery to me why you do not support the fact that it should be written into the legislation. We see several municipalities abolish the clipboard system or re-prioritize the funds, so the SF simply lacks to live up to their electoral promises. So what will SF do to the next Finance Act? We get 1 billion. kr. earmarked for the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622143814	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622143815	We're gonna be fighting ahead of the elderly. For me, therefore, it is a matter of focusing on some of the most vulnerable elderly and not just, in general, on the elderly. I'll admit it. Some of the things we would have liked to see when we negotiated the corona relief packages, where we agreed with the Danish People's Party, were targeted checks for some of the poorest elderly, because we have to recognise that the elderly are very different. We have ourselves in the past, now retired members of parliament who have grown older, who may well have a little more lucrative reality than people who, for example, have. has only the basic amount of the pension. But I'm still happy to take that fight with the Danish People's Party. I think it's important.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622143850	Søren Pape Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622143851	Thank you. Sometimes you read something in the newspaper where you think it's almost too good to be true, and when Jyllands-Posten started with their descriptions that these almost 100,000 new top tax payers who will come in 2020, just because they get paid their holiday money, I thought that then I got such a shock, and that may mean that sometimes the memory fails afterwards that SF actually declared itself ready to look at it in this specific case for this specific group, which today is not top tax payers. Now I did not get a very clear answer from Mr. Morten Østergaard, it would probably be a shame to say, but I would like to know if SF is still out there looking to see if you can do something for that group. I know that we are ideologically opposed to the whole concept of top tax, but will SF help to find a solution for this group, where we would like the money to work and not just leave it in the holiday account?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622143947	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622143948	Now I know sir. Søren Pape Poulsen well enough to know that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen has read the article to the end, and it says at the end of the article and I am not quoting correctly, because I do not have the article with me. I think that you can spend the money better than spending it on top tax reliefs. And there should be no doubt that I believe that money can be spent wiser and better. Nor do I think it was a secret to anyone that some people could risk falling within the top tax line. But we are as we are and we are many parties that meet and we can of course always discuss things, but it is not the same as I think it is a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144023	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144024	One can always discuss whether this is a relaxation and one can discuss whether the state will then receive less revenue by 2020, but at least one gets more revenue than one had ever dreamed of, because this money should only come when people retired. Then I often hear that many people talk about how strong the public sector is being run, among other things. of nurses, and I fully agree with that. I mean, this is gonna be one of those things. helping many nurses who smoke within the top tax limit because they are now receiving the holiday money.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144054	After all, I am faced with a fundamental choice, and that is whether we should grant top tax relief to the nurse or whether the nurse should have a colleague more. And I am very sure that if you ask the nurse, he will answer: I would rather have more colleagues and run a little slower than I would have a top tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144111	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144113	Thank you so much. In last year's opening debate, the rapporteur's party colleague Mr. Jacob Mark would like to hear a little bit about New Citizens' Children's Policy. Sir. Jacob Mark quoted me as wanting to give more rights to parents, and Mr. Jacob Mark agreed with this by saying: "We believe it should be parents' right to give children an extra year in kindergarten if the children need it. ▪ Afterwards, Mr. Jacob Mark, whether New Citizens would help give parents the right to decide whether children need an extra year in the sandbox. And the answer was a resounding yes, and then we tabled a resolution on it. Unfortunately, it was voted down a few days ago, among other things. by SF. Can Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr understand that I am a little surprised that the SF voted no when you think back to Mr. Jacob Mark's question?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144217	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144219	SF still believes that it should be parents' right to decide whether to start school. But as Mrs Mette Thiesen also knows, there is conciliation in here at Christiansborg, and there are agreements that are made with each other. And I am sure that we can put a little arm with the government and then perhaps even see to it that the New Citizens' motion for a resolution becomes a reality, and then we will all be happy in the end. SF has been supporting this for much longer than New Citizens, I think, and it is wonderful that we can fight together on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144250	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144251	I would say that the last thing I can agree with is that the more we are in favour of this obvious injustice that needs to be changed, so that the parents have the opportunity to decide, the better. But it was kind of a Christiansborg response that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr brought along, that is to say this, that one really agrees with the intention, but still cannot support it. And I actually think there are quite a lot of Danes out there who can agree with me. The proportion of pupils who have delayed their school start has been steadily declining since the law was amended in 2009 from 13.4%. in 2009-10 to 6,2%. in 2018-19. When does Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr expect a solution to be found for children who are not ready for school but who, as part of cashier thinking, are sending prematurely to school?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144339	Thank you! Here you go, Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144341	I can share a secret, and that's that, sir. Jacob Mark was one of those who was allowed to go for a year longer in kindergarten. I think that was a good thing, and I think that many other children would enjoy it. Excuse me, but I think it is important to leave it not only the responsibility of parents but also the responsibility of educators in the day-care institution where they are. But I am sure that we will find a good solution for that. That's what was found for Mr. Jacob Mark, and I think there's gonna be other kids too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144412	Then there are some comments from the hall, but yes, sometimes you let things pass. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144421	Speaking of children, I was also one of those who got an extra year in kindergarten. So there you can see a common destiny that we have there. I had just come from France and didn't know a word in Danish and something like that, so there were a lot of things there. Well, never mind. I took note of the fact that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr mentioned this, that the warm hands of the public sector do not have to work even more quickly. They need to work a little slower and get more colleagues. I think that is a sympathetic view. But does this not really apply to private employees? It's not such a lazy drinker, is it? They also run sufficiently fast and also have a stressful everyday life. I guess they deserve more hands and more colleagues too. Much of the policy that the SF wants to implement is, after all, dragging people out of the private labour market, so that there are fewer in the abattoirs and on the construction site, etc. So they must run even faster in the private labour market with SF's policy, and I think that is a little strange indeed. So I really just want to hear first of all whether SF does not also believe that people in the private labour market deserve more hands and more colleagues.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144520	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144521	Well, I don't really understand the question, if I'm to be honest. For SF is by no means interested in people having fewer colleagues in the private sector. We have made no proposal in the Parliamentary Assembly. Nor is it any of what we are working for. I am concerned that our private sector is functioning, that there is a balance between the public and the private sector, and that we are making sure that we have a good framework for the private sector, as well as for the public sector. In fact, I think we can do much more in the public sector with the same means. I think the Liberal Alliance and the SF agree there. We could look at some of the bureaucracy. We could look at some of the many hours you spend behind the computer instead of e.g. to be with the patient, as the sosu assistant and the nurse and the doctor do in the hospital. So I think there are many things we can do wiser and better in the public sector, and I know that it is done in the private sector. Sometimes I think that some of what you do in the private sector, which I think is monster cool when I've been out visiting Danish companies, is that you look at how the employees can do this in a smarter and smarter way if they're in it themselves; it could be great if we did it in the public sector too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144628	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144629	I think my question might have been misunderstood or not explained well enough. However, when SF wants higher unemployment benefits, this means that fewer people are available for the labour market. When you want an early retirement, this means that fewer people remain in the labour market. That means, among other things, that... in the private sector, that there are fewer hands to solve the tasks, and therefore they must run even stronger in the private labour market. That is actually what I would like Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr to say about whether there is no problem in it, just as there is in the public sector, and whether SF has proposals for reforms, which means that there are more hands on the private labour market too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144703	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144705	It is thought-provoking that the employment rate is so high in Denmark. It is because both men and women are in the labour market on a very large scale and we work and are quite productive. Even if we compare ourselves with our neighbouring countries, Denmark is one of the top countries. Does this mean that we will work even more effectively if, for example, we do so? Is this guy gonna drop the bar, or are we gonna tell them that people just have to work until they're 98? No, I don't think so. I believe that the very thing about the fact that we have a welfare society that is keeping our hands on us and that we are doing so, for example. can go down in time at times in life when we need it, making us also work more productive. I think it is fun to see under corona that some private companies report back that their companies have been even more up on the beat than they are otherwise. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144749	Yeah, yeah, it's fine. Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144756	Thank you. SF has previously refused to keep the tax in order. Now we got new figures from Danmarks Statistik, which shows that as many as 73,000 were no longer employees in April. Does this give SF an opportunity to think and perhaps help to agree that we should keep the tax in order?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144823	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144824	Well, SF doesn't want the treasure to just rise. I think more that it would be fine if any of those who do not pay taxes were to start paying taxes to the community. There is, for example. multinational companies in Denmark that do not. There are large tech giants mentioned earlier in this Chamber who do not pay taxes either. That would be fine, because then we would have a stronger welfare society. It is not the case that because you are a multinational company and you live here in Denmark, you do not use education, infrastructure and much else, even if you do not actually contribute to it. So I think there's something you can do. But do I need such a general increase in taxes? No, I just want us to have a strong welfare society, including in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144903	Christoffer Aagaard Melson, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144905	These were a little more positive reports than we have heard in the past. So I would like to hear: does this mean that the SF is about to be ready to join the Left's proposal for a tax freeze?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144916	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144917	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144921	Then we'll thank you, and then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622144923	Thank you. The reason I have just taken the floor is that I did not quite understand Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's reply to Karina Adsbøl earlier. I recall with great pleasure the election campaign in the spring of last year, when Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr and I were on a joint visit to one of our very good nursing homes in the good Danish country, and where Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr used the opportunity to confirm an agreement that in terms of whom we should support, it depended on the provision of 1 billion. kr. In addition to the demographic change, that is to say, the fact that the ageing of the population is in itself drawing more resources. I would just like to ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr to confirm that we had that common understanding in the election campaign and told the Danes, and also to confirm that that promise has not yet been fulfilled. So that is something that we have good to see fulfilled, and it is also interesting to hear when it will be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622145024	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622145026	It was actually a very good visit, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and I had together in the West Jutland, in Esbjerg my blood pressure was lower than Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahls, so I may also have a rather quieter temper in general. I agree, however, that we need to do more for the elderly in the country and, in particular, for the poorest elderly. After all, there is a huge difference between what economy you have when you retire, and I think that some of those who really feel it are those who are poorest, and I am concerned that they get better care for the elderly, that you make sure that they have fixed teams, that you look at how the number of hours for their home care is. I will also be concerned about all this in future work. I also have to say, however, that the Danish People's Party sat as a support party for a bourgeois government for a very many years and for a very many years, when the amounts for the elderly were not particularly increased, but we have already done so for the first year in the regional agreement and in the municipal agreement and also in the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622145128	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622145128-2	Now the area of the elderly was, of course, the area that was raised most in isolation in the last parliamentary term, but the answer is still a little: oh boo-boo-boo, you did not do enough, so don't ask it of me now. After all, there was a reason why we went out in the election campaign together and said that there was a special area to be lifted in the coming years. And I assume that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr means it, just as I meant it, when we said to the Danes: vote for us. If we are to vote in a majority after the elections, we will go for a 1 billion increase in the area of the elderly. kr. In addition to demographic change. I think we agree that this has not happened yet, so when can we expect it? Is this an autumn exercise in connection with the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622145210	We're getting an answer now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622145212	I very much agree with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl in that it is an area that must be prioritised. We did so in the Finance Act by allocating some money that will go to the lonely elderly, which I think is important because it is about a dignified old age. I think we should look at much more, and I look forward to having some ideas on where we can focus together, because there should be no doubt that our elderly people in this country can feel it, not least in these coronatids, where they have felt so isolated because they have not had the opportunity to visit their relatives. There I think we have a common struggle to make others aware that this is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622145245	Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622145248	Thank you. The SF has received a promise from this government, namely the higher benefits to unemployed foreigners, and then we have also agreed to the creation of a Commission for Benefits. And this Service Commission is then working on an economic basis, where the money negotiated by the SF for higher benefits, we have to understand from the Minister, has been pulled out again when the Service Commission makes their recommendations. Then the Service Commission starts from zero. I'd just like to know if SF imagines seeing himself in an agreement where these 100 million. kr. has been tampered with and the system of benefits does not, overall, become more expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622145327	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622145328	I am simply in doubt as to what kind of service it is, Mr President. Morten Dahlin is talking about, because what we have delivered in connection with the understanding paper and subsequently has been a boost in relation to the country's children that our children, the poorest children, were given the opportunity for a higher child benefit. If you are a poor child, you know what it means that you can't have a birthday, that you can't get new clothes, that in winter you're really still wearing your summer shoes. So I think this really makes a difference to the kids. And if it is because the Left particularly wants to pull someone out of that service, then it is also said that there are some people who should not have the opportunity, for example. to do better in life, and I would never accept that we push children out in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622145420	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622145420-2	That was a long answer which then did not really give me the answer to the question. Well, the fact is, you've got 100 million. kr. Into these higher benefits. Then the Minister has indicated to the Danish Parliament that he has asked the Service Commission to come forward with a proposal for a new benefit system in which these 100 million. kr. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission has not been able to take a decision on this matter. And there I would just like to know if SF could see itself in an agreement, where you turn the benefits back to the level they were at before the SF got raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622145453	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622145453-2	Well, I'm sorry if I didn't get the answer to the question, but it was enough because I didn't quite understand it the way it was asked. But I think so, sir. Morten Dahlin believes that we have made a special benefit for the poorest children in Denmark across all groups, no matter where you are from and what you are called it is simply about the poor child. And yes, I think that's important. It has been a struggle for the SF to focus on the children, and it has also succeeded in the understanding paper. Then we have also set up a Service Commission, which I think will be very busy, because before New Year they will have to come up with a new system of benefits, and there I expect that something will still be done for the poorest people, if nothing else, we will have to go back to the Folketing and negotiate this, and the SF will then fight for the poorest children in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622145534	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622145536	Thank you. I think I'm one of those people who could definitely have spent an extra year in kindergarten. Then I think that when I went to school I might have become so mature that I was so good at learning that I had become so clever that I would have understood the radical proposal on how to use climate taxes for corporate tax relief without it becoming counterproductive. More about that in a minute. Thank you for a very good speech. I think thankfulness is a very fine key word, also because it contains the humility with which I think we should go when we have the chance in this Parliament to try to address some of the really serious challenges we have in our time. My curiosity goes on these climate taxes, i.e. what SF thinks you can use the money that comes in for when they have to go back out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622145623	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622145624	I think they should be used to make Denmark greener. When we get climate taxes in, we have to think about how we make them, because they need to be crafted intelligently. There has to be a social balance, and it should not be the poorest in Denmark that suddenly ends up with the hair in the mailbox. At the same time, we must also ensure that some companies that we would like to have here and that are climate-friendly, but whose production is not climate-friendly in itself, for example. Aalborg Portland. Cement production is not climate-friendly, but they make it more climate-friendly than many others around the world do. We would like to maintain them in Denmark. So these two considerations have to go in. But if you imagine there will be money in the box and what they will be used for, then it will not be for corporate tax reliefs it is not something SF can see for itself but for investments. Energy efficiency improvements in industry would, for example, be necessary. be an obvious place to start. We could say that we would create an incentive for agriculture in relation to the phasing out of their agricultural machinery and much more. In other words, it is not the case that they should not have agricultural machinery, but they should be powered by electricity. There is much we could do in that direction. The Radical Left is preoccupied with this electrification strategy, and so is the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622145729	Torsten Gejl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622145730	Thank you for that answer. One of the lessons that has come from the Corona crisis in relation to the employment system is that in the open space that arose, there are many case workers who feel that they have been given the opportunity to use their skills with the unemployed and talk to them in a different way and that they have actually achieved very positive results, including with some of the most vulnerable unemployed. But when we know at the same time that we have the world's most expensive employment system, and we also know that there are both experiments and studies showing that it is not certain that coercion and control are the best thing in the employment system... Thank you! ..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20200622145807	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622145808	SF's councilman in Aarhus, sir. Thomas Medom has made an attempt with the unemployed when he was the alderman for employment, and it was that they were given 50,000 kroner. e.g. training, and it could also be to get a dental treatment or to get some other clothes, to see if they got into employment more quickly. The crazy thing is, they did. The unemployed were, in fact, very focused on what brought them into employment and there was a rather high success rate. So I think the thing about showing a little more confidence in this is quite good, including in our employment system. It is extremely complicated to be unemployed today. I think maybe we can make it a little easier.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622145842	Then it's mr. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622145844	Thank you. A short time ago, on behalf of the Radical Left, I tabled a proposal adopted by the Social Democratic Party, the Enhedslisten, the SF and the Radical Left in 2014. The proposal was simple in saying that anyone born in Denmark who has taken the 9th class and who is not a criminal must be allowed to become a Danish citizen. Inger Løjberg removed the scheme shortly after she entered the government. I am aware that the social democracy has changed policy in the field of immigration, and I also understood during the debate we had when I tabled the proposal that SF has changed policy, because the SF voted against. Would Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr please explain why the SF has changed policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622145929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622145930	I think basically that when one is born in Denmark and has earned it and has fought and fought and has obtained an exam, one should also be allowed to be a Danish citizen; but to say that it must be a general principle, I think is something we do well to examine a little more closely. It's not that I've gone away from the position we had in 2014 that I actually think there are some very basic human principles in it, and I know a lot of people who have put a lot of time and effort into becoming a part of Denmark, but I certainly still think it's worth a debate, whether it's a general principle, or whether we should still discuss the matter by case, as we do in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150007	Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150008	Thank you. I don't really think I get an answer if I'm to be honest. I think it is positive that people want to discuss and something like that, but why has the SF changed policy in this area? It is a simple question. There must be a good explanation for that since the SF has done so. At the time, the SF helped to put forward the proposal and to adopt it in 2014, and the very same proposal was wanted to say no to it again. Why?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150035	Here you go, Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150036	Well, SF hasn't changed policy. We have the same policy as we had 2014. I do not know under what conditions you have discussed the proposal, but we are concerned that people should have rights when they are born and raised in Denmark, but I just still think it must depend on an individual assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150052	Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150054	I understand that SF does not want to back the tax freeze, so that must mean that you want to raise some taxes and taxes. And there I think it would be appropriate to make clear what taxes and charges are intended to be raised, since we are not in favour of a tax freeze.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150111	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150111-2	I could mention one: the tech tax. I think that companies that are in Denmark and work in Denmark also have to pay taxes in Denmark, and this is a trade, among other things. about Google, Facebook, Apple and others who don't pay taxes anywhere. And they are still taking advantage of people who are trained in our education system, something to which each of us jointly pays taxes. They take advantage of driving on our roads... something that we all pay taxes for. And that is why they must also help to pay for the community. But it is true that I do not want us to increase taxes in general. I think we should do it wisely and intelligently. And we can certainly close some tax gaps, because we can have a common interest in that, in other words that nobody cheats and actually does unfair competition with the tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150158	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150159	Thank you. Thank you for the honest answer that you want to raise taxes and charges. One of the taxes mentioned earlier by the SF is the property tax, which is why I would like to know if it is still one of SF's proposals to raise the property tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150214	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150216	I get a little tired of that strawman. I don't think it's okay if I have to be honest, that is, the thing about saying when I say we're gonna do this thing with the tech tax: Well, but SF just wants to increase taxes. Well, listen to what I'm actually saying. We are concerned that you are looking at some targeted taxes • looking at some of those who do not pay taxes in Denmark today, so they also contribute to the community. Will it increase the tax burden? Yes, for them, but it is not such a general increase in taxes, and that is why I think we should be careful how we use the words. And yes, SF still goes away for a fortune tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150249	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150251	Thank you for that, and thank you for the good speech, in which the climate legislation and the minimum standards were particularly highlighted, which is something SF and Enhedslisten share. I would like to ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr some of what Mr. Søren Pape also asked about top tax concessions for those receiving holiday money. I read the article, and I read the whole article, and there I could also see that it was not number one on SF's wish list. I am just a little surprised that it even appears on the wish list, because I am of the opinion that it will actually create more inequality, that it is a very stupid way of spending the money making top tax concessions. So I would just like a very clear answer from SF: should we spend the money there, or should we spend the money better somewhere else?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150337	Here you go, Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150338	We need the money much better somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150341	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150343	That was a very clear answer. I am very pleased about that, because then I can return to something which has also been raised in the debate and which is of great concern to me, namely the ghetto package. After all, these are residential areas which have done exactly what they have been told not to stand on the hard ghetto list. Then there's a corona crisis, and we're giving a break to virtually everyone. I'm glad. It is for the benefit recipients and the companies, but why not do it here as well? These are places where people live. Does the SF really care about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150418	Here you go, Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150420	No, I don't care about that. I am concerned that we have mixed residential areas, and I am concerned that some of the money we actually spend from Christiansborg is pumped into these areas, so we make sure that they get a chance, that the children get the opportunity to go to a mixed kindergarten, that they get the opportunity to go to a mixed school, because you mirror yourself in the ones you are with. I think it is extremely important that we do not leave the children of the underclass on the platform, but in fact give them all the opportunities for the cool life. So no, I don't care about that. And if we are going to discuss whether we should look at some very specific thing, I am happy to do so, but basically I think that the ghetto package makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150458	Thank you. Then it's mr. Per Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150501	Thank you. It is well known that we have a massive shortage of practitioners in Denmark. It is the case that there are in the vicinity of 140,000 who do not have a doctor who is a family doctor, that is, a doctor they know, but are referred to a clinic where there are employed doctors, and that figure is expected to grow to about 300,000 by 2021. The reason we have such a massive shortage of doctors is that we have been trained too few in general medicine for far too many years, and that means that we simply have too few doctors. This problem can, of course, be solved by training more doctors, and not long ago we in the Conservative People's Party put forward a proposal to train more doctors in general medicine and to set up more training places. SF would have had the opportunity to make a big difference so that we could get that problem solved, but the proposal was actually voted down. How will SF solve the problem of lack of practitioners?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150603	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150605	I do not think there is one measure that can stand alone. I think there are a lot of things that need to happen. First of all, we need to increase the volume. That's actually some of what we've done now. After the corona, 5 000 more are going to higher education, and I think that is actually positive. I also think we can look at some of the areas where you do not have a practitioner and look at what we should do to make it particularly attractive. I can see that in the northwest, Bispebjerg and Ishøj, just to mention some examples right here in our vicinity, we cannot get a hold of practitioners, and there we are facing a particular challenge. It is not only in the country that it is also in Copenhagen. And I don't think there's one quick fix there. In the 1980s and 1990s it was done by the Left I think it was Mr. Bertel Haarder said that one went in and very determinedly reduced admission to medical education, and I think it is a little dangerous when we politicians start doing something like that, but I think there is a wide range of things that need to be done. I do not wish to deny that some of the proposals made by Conservatives can be a good part of the solution, but I think we need to be a little creative and do so in the context of the other health sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150711	Per Larsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150713	Thank you. Then I would like to know a little what Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr thinks about the proposal made by the government to force newly trained doctors out in various parts of the country in the middle of their training courses to specialist doctors.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150731	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150733	Well, that's one suggestion. I think I'd do it another way if I were to be honest. Not very long ago I visited a medical clinic up in North Jutland, in Frederikshavn, which in fact consisted mainly of doctors who should have retired. They were really private practitioners, but they chose to go together because they didn't want the administrative trouble, but they still wanted to do the medical job. They wanted more time, they wanted to focus on the patient. There you have made a model which I think is actually quite interesting and which you could look at elsewhere in the country, and there may well be other good suggestions as well. We must resolve this - I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150810	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150812	Thank you for the floor. I should like to begin by expressing my thanks to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr in her speech. Thank you for your cooperation during the negotiations. We have certainly not always been in agreement, but it has been constructive cooperation, so thank you for that. I'd like to follow up on where mr. Alex Vanopslagh ended. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr mentioned that she believed that we agreed that we could save some resources by reducing bureaucracy and thus release some more warm hands. Denmark is one of the OECD countries that spends the highest share of our crowns on preschool children. This means that a lot of resources go to this area, but on the other hand the educators spend only about half the time they have with the children. You want minimum standards, but if you do not remove the bureaucracy, the administration and the many meetings that have been laid down over the staff, does the rapporteur not see that it is really going to make it more expensive and worse to be a child in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150920	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622150922	I believe that minimum standards will automatically make it better to be a child in Denmark. Being seen by an adult means the world. We have seen this under the corona, where there has actually been time for them and they have been in smaller groups. You grow as a human being, as such a small person, when someone actually sees you; then they light up like little suns. The more we can make them shine up like little suns in that size, the more amazing I actually think their children's lives will be. Having said that, I agree with the rapporteur that we could look at how we could remove some of the rules we have in the public sector. Last time SF was in government, we made an agreement that in the private sector we should look at unnecessary rules and bureaucracy. In fact, we removed a great deal of rules in the private sector and I would like us to do the same in the public sector. SF has suggested removing one in ten rule. It may be a rather random figure, but it could make us both in here and also in the municipalities looking at whether all the rules that have been introduced are really necessary and whether they do not help to counter what we want to see happen, namely that there is more time with the children. I agree with the rapporteur there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622151023	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622151024	I'm really glad to hear that. Some of the things I also noticed in the rapporteur's reply to Mr Seligman's question. Alex Vanopslagh, the rapporteur, spoke of the advantages in the private sector, where freedom and responsibility were given to the employees and said: we believe that you are the best people to adapt. And that is precisely what minimum standards argue against, because there can be a huge difference in how best to fit in in different parts of the country or even in different day institutions in the same municipality. Does the rapporteur not recognise this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622151056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622151057	The SF's proposal on minimum standards is about minimum standards at institutional level. It is because we believe that each institution will know how to do the smartest and the smartest. It may well be that in a living room you need a little more adults one day, and that in the other room you really need more educators because there are some special educational tasks and where the educator assistant can be next door. In fact, I am confident that the leaders and employees of our day care institutions will be the best ones to do the job. But I do agree that we must always think about how much bureaucracy we put down over our children's area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622151134	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622151135	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur and thanking her for focusing on children who are being stressed in the school system; I think that this is very important. But there are also many stressed adults in our working life, i.e. 35,000 a day, who are on sick leave because of mentally ill working conditions, stress, depression or burnout. After all, this is a huge challenge for the people and for the families affected by it, and it is also very, very expensive for society. 21 billion kr. The Stress Association estimates that it costs a year. So we need to do something there, I mean. And I would like to hear what the rapporteur thinks we could do. Could we reduce working time to a four-day week? Or what is the rapporteur thinking? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622151223	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622151225	In any case, we need to look at the need for family life to be more closely linked. One of the proposals that the SF has made is that you can make baby loans, and so it is not a loan of babies, but that you give parents the opportunity to borrow from the state for the first 7 years of the child's life to be able to go down in time. Because we know that one of the most pressing things is to have children and to have full-time work at the same time. And it is possible for some of those who earn the most in our society to actually go down in time and cope with the economy anyway, but some of those who have the least money find it difficult to finance even going down in time. It is one of the models, but I am, in fact, very open to having a discussion about this, because I think that it will be the challenge of the future if we do not do it wisely, that is to say that we will experience many go down with stress and it will be the new major public disease. Where we have previously had a lot of focus on cancer and heart, I actually think that we should focus on stress, because stress can set itself for the rest of our lives if you do not take it into the recovery.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622151327	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622151329	Thank you. In fact, the WHO also says that they expect it to be the biggest public disease we are going to have. That is why it is really important to take concrete action. But what exactly does the rapporteur think about the fact that simply going down in working hours and sharing work between more people and the freedom it will give to have a good life and a good family life?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622151350	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622151351	That is at least one of the things we are doing in connection with the aid packages. For our challenge in the Danish economy has been that there were relatively many people at work, so it was not easy to share the work, but during the Corona a tripartite agreement has been drawn up and I would really like to thank the government for that, because I thought it was a gifted tripartite agreement, both in relation to the focus on what employees and employers can contribute, but also in relation to this discussion on division of labour. I think this will be important, also to ensure that people get a foothold on the labour market in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622151420	With a slight overrun, we can just reach Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622151423	Thank you. Could the rapporteur say what positive effects it would have on a low-income family or a child's family if the electricity tax were lowered?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622151434	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622151435	That's one of the things we decided to do last night. For a low-income family, it will mean that you will have more room for manoeuvre in your economy and that you can spend the money on perhaps investing in a heat pump instead of your oil boiler. You may also choose to buy bicycles for your children. There are many possibilities in it, but it is true that the individual family will experience that they get more money between their hands when the price of electricity falls. It also makes good sense in terms of climate, because hopefully a lot of electricity will gradually turn green with these energy islands and all sorts of other things that are not a mirage, but actually become reality now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622151509	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622151511	I very much agree with that. So if it were to be halved down to the lowest EU level, the benefit would be greater for families with children. Can the rapporteur confirm this? And is that something SF wants to work for?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622151520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622151521	No, because there is also some balance point. I do not want to be extremely nerdy, because this is something I am very concerned about, namely energy policy. But there is, of course, a balancing point in relation to how we make it balance with other types of energy, as long as we have so much black energy in the circuit, and so we still have that away. We still use coal in Denmark. We haven't phased out in that yet. Despite the fact that I actually think the Left has made an excellent proposal to phase out the coal in 2025, we have not reached the goal there. There is much we have to do yet, but if it was all green in the long run, we still have to save on it, otherwise we will have to have even more of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622151555	Thank you very much to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. It's a good mood. And that is why we can now welcome Mrs Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622151620	The day after tomorrow, the understanding paper celebrates 1-year birthday. For one year we have had a new majority that has given each other a hand in reducing inequality, strengthening welfare and delivering 70% reduction in climate gases by 2030. It was in many ways historic when we made that understanding paper. Can Denmark also feel it one year later? Yes, we can. A year and a half ago, only the Enhedslisten and the Alternative had an ambition for the 70% reduction in climate gases. There was hardly the synonym for crazy that had not been used for us in that debate at the time. On Thursday, I think it was, the Folketing then adopted one of the world's most ambitious climate laws with exactly that goal. The 2020 Finance Act became the first in barely a decade that did not cut down on welfare and that did not diminish welfare. For the first time in all my time in the Folketing, investment was actually made. We took the first steps to hire more nurses instead of guys, we set up beds in the psychiatry, we sent money to the municipalities so that more educational staff could be employed, and we ensured that there was money in the care of the elderly, also as more elderly people need help. This was something that the Danish People's Party has not been able to deliver for many years as a parliamentary basis. In addition to that, we are hiring thousands more employees in the tax control system, something that Enhedslisten has wanted for many years, so that we can avoid billions being sent into tax havens by large multinational companies. We have taken action against quick loan providers so that people cannot be abused in a vulnerable economic position, and we have put Blackstone and similar companies at the door, so that we can prevent ordinary people in rental homes from pushing up their rents and being exploited. And, above all, we have given a special child check to some of the poorest children's families. It's not enough, but it means a lot to them. And we've done a lot more than that. So we're done? Far from it. There are plenty to clean up after: years of cuts, increasing inequality, tax cuts at the top and a majority in the Folketing, who for years have turned a blind eye to man-made climate change. And now we are in the middle of a crisis, a health crisis that lurks beneath the surface and can break out again and hit us hard in reality at any time. It is an economic crisis that has already cost thousands of people their jobs and has made small businesses have had to close down. One can easily be derived from the big lines in the discussion about process, snippets, borders, roller coaster rides and dust clouds and all sorts of other things we have discussed. Perhaps you can even be so pressured that you may forget the target. However, the many, many people who have now experienced our welfare societies being put to the test and survive deserve to keep an eye on the ball. The thousands of nurses, medical secretaries, sosus, HKs, porters who have worked hard in our health care, and teachers and educators deserve much more than just thanks. They deserve more respect, they deserve less bureaucracy, they deserve more pay and they deserve more colleagues. Those people who have lost their jobs deserve a stronger safety net that actually grabs them and they deserve to do our best to invest in green conversion, which also creates jobs so that they can have a job again and their children can have a safer future. The people who are sick, the people who have a disability and the people who have retired after a long working life deserve better conditions, and we all deserve a better welfare society. In other words, the understanding paper is more relevant than ever before, and there is no excuse for slowing down. We need to speed up in the same direction. And Enhedslisten will also remind them of that every day. Also when demands for top tax relief, corporate tax reductions and privatisations rain down on the government from the opposition and sometimes other parts of the parliamentary basis, then the Enhedslisten will be there. Then I would like to turn my attention to a completely different subject, which is being talked a lot about the world over which is not corona but which we talk too little about in here. Something needs to be said and something particularly needs to be said from this platform. Yes, there is racism in Denmark. It has to be said. In May, the statistics from the Serum Institute showed that there was an over-representation of people with immigrant backgrounds among the coronasmitted. It became for several politicians from in here to such a tale of bad culture and parallel society again, I want to say. How many of the leading politicians actually stopped and thought: Hm, maybe the cause is not color or origin, but maybe it has to do with class societies? How many people in here really thought that a lot of the most risky jobs, when it comes to infection, are being cared for by people with brown or dark skin color? How many people really think that some of the most grieving and poorly paid jobs in our society are being carried out by some of the people who have a different ethnic background and who get so much reviling, to put it bluntly? It is just one example of how people with a different religion, origin, ethnicity and skin color from the majority get their fingers pointed at them for no other reason than that, i.e. origin, religion, skin color and ethnicity. Racism is real and we have to face it. The statistics show us that too. There's 70%. more likely that you will be charged with something that you will not be convicted of if you are brown. You are at greater risk of being stopped and searched for no reason. You're at greater risk of being rejected at the disco. It's harder to get through an education. I want you to send over 50 percent. multiple applications to get a job if your name sounds Arabic. There are so many places in this society where you start with the odds against you and have less chances if you're brown than white. It should also be clear in our everyday lives for a lot of people. Bad jokes about skin color, being spit on, being called Perkerso, stone throws against a Jewish kosher business, vandalism in a Jewish cemetery, vandalism in a Muslim cemetery, being asked to leave home, even if you have grown up in Holstebro, to experience that other people walk across the street when they have to pass you late in the evening, that people will not talk to you or are not served by you, because your skin color is as it is, children who are bullied because they look as they do, it is the reality of very many of our fellow citizens. I have a responsibility to say no to that as an individual in my everyday life, and we all have that in this society... all of us. But in here we also have a responsibility as legislators and as parliament, perhaps even a greater responsibility. Racialism in everyday life becomes a little more okay when the country's elected politicians keep telling us that Muslims are such and such, or that immigrants and descendants have not earned the same thing as everyone else in this country. After all, racism has something to stand on when legislation and policy measures are tailored to hit immigrants. For far too long, this Parliament with its opinions and legislation has made the problems worse instead of fighting them. Can we not talk about integration being difficult? Yeah, it's hard. So can we not say that there is social control in some particular environments in our society? Yes, you can, because there is, and we must take that seriously. But we cannot pretend that there is no racism because there is no racism on paper. And you can't just say: Well, I'm just in my everyday life incredibly color-blind. Because if you do not talk about racism and discrimination, you will be blind to the problems that exist in our society and that affect so many of our fellow citizens. There is racism in Denmark. It affects everyday life, it is embedded in our systems, and it is time we had a Parliament that actively combats it. I think it needed to be said, and I think that we, the Danish Parliament, need to wake up, because when there is a reference to Justice for George Floyd, it does not just mean something far away in the United States. This means justice for all those affected by racism, including in Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622152614	The first to have a brief comment is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622152620	Thank you. That was quite a round, Mrs. Pernille Skipper. What I missed a little was the conclusion. Mrs Pernille Skipper makes such a long statement about how terrible it is all out in front of Christiansborg and everywhere else in this country, and said, among other things, that it has been made worse by legislation in here and that now the Folketing must actively fight it. It must then somehow be doing the opposite of what we have done in the past. What exactly is it that Enhedslisten proposes of legislative initiatives to bring Denmark to where Mrs Pernille Skipper would like it to go?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622152658	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622152700	There's a lot of things you can do. One of the things that can be taken seriously is the discrimination that is also taking place in our legal system. This is one of the things I know that Mrs Rosa Lund has been fighting for too long and is still doing in the negotiations on the new police settlement, namely ensuring that we ensure that there is training for our officers so that we become aware that discrimination exists and can be found. This does not necessarily mean that you are an evil person, but that it is something that we must work actively with. Where, then, can it be seen in the legislation? Well, there is, and Mr. Simpson knows that. Kristian Thulesen Dahl about someone, legislation in here, which is tailored, as I say, to hit the so-called immigrants. It's kind of become a concept for all sorts of things. This is among other things. such things as handshake legislation, masking bans and the like. It is to me to see legislation that supports and legitimises a perception that there are some that are worse than others because of either their origin, ethnicity or skin color.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622152808	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622152809	We can, of course, have different views as to whether something really oppresses someone or whether it really helps to create people's freedom from any oppression that they encounter, social control that they encounter, etc. However, what I just find interesting when you make a rapporteur's speech here today, which contains such a svada as Mrs Pernille Skipper gave, is that it is really an incredibly condescending characteristic of Danish society and the way our fellow human beings are towards each other. So I just think it is fair that we should be very specific about what we are going to do about it. There it is, then, that we need to have some officers trained in the judicial system and that we need to discuss whether we should have a masking ban. Were those the examples?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622152851	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622152853	I think it is quite telling that it is seen as patronising to talk about racism. It's not like we're doing anything in here. This is something that the Danish People's Party has toured the press with and, to put it, does not exist in Denmark at all. I cannot pretend that this is not one of the reasons why I am standing here, because I think there are a lot of people who feel that this Parliament cannot figure out how to look out in reality if something like that can be said and passed uncontroversially. But no, we have a lot of other proposals, and if the Danish People's Party would like to have a conversation about our overall proposal on how to combat racism in Denmark, I think we should sit down together and talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622152932	Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622152935	Thank you. Perhaps I am not so surprised by Mrs Pernille Skipper's speech, but perhaps a little disappointed. Because it was a lot about how to spend money, but not at all about how to get more money in Denmark, and how to create the wealth to finance our welfare. I do not know if it is just because Enhedslisten is not interested in creating the conditions for creating the growth that can give us more welfare in Denmark. Because welfare doesn't come out of nowhere. It comes from Danes who go to work in companies that make money home to Denmark. But not in a word was it affected. What will Enhedslisten do to ensure that we create more prosperity, which is the basis for our welfare in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622153014	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622153015	Firstly, I would like to say that I am not buying this contradiction which the right is trying to put up between the private and the public sectors. It is two of each other's mutual dependencies that create value in our society both. I believe that the Corona crisis and public aid to the many, many private companies that have needed it are proof of that very fact. Denmark is also often named as one of the countries in the world which is absolutely best to start business in. Among other things, it has. something to do with the fact that we have a strong welfare society and a strong infrastructure. How do we then create proper employment, new jobs and prosperity, if you will, in our society now, when we are in crisis? Yes, it is clear that the public motor needs to start again because we are in an economic crisis. That is why it is also one of the things we care about when we talk about climate negotiations, namely that it should have a proper job effect. We will, for example: to ensure that, when you advance offshore wind farms, you also ensure that there is continuing training, so that some of the many people who have lost their jobs can get back into that industry and get a job again, so that the prosperity we create also makes sense to the world and to the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622153123	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622153124	Now I think that it is Enhedslisten himself who sets up a contradiction between prosperity and welfare, because money must be created for society. I still did not hear any suggestion as to how growth is being created. I heard suggestions for continuing training, but not how we help the Danish companies to get through this crisis stronger, so that they can earn more money for Denmark so that we can afford the welfare that I think everyone in here wants. There is no one in the Folketing who does not want a welfare society. We support the welfare society, so it is not a contradiction that needs to be put up. But is there not a question of where welfare should be financed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622153159	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622153201	Then I expressed myself too vaguely. What I tried to oppose is this tale that the private sector is the only place that is created value in our society and then pays the private sector for the public sector. It's wrong, and that's what I'm up against. Well, if we just look back a few months, we've posted billions from the public sector into the private sector to help here. On a daily basis, Danish companies are supported by a strong welfare society in the form of free trained labour from public universities, strong infrastructure and much more. But we must create growth right now through targeted investment, among other things. in green conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622153237	Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622153240	Thank you. The speech was, of course, divided into two. The first part was about how horrible society is if we didn't have Enhedslisten to make the understanding paper, everything was about to break down completely and our welfare community going beyond the edge; it was really bad. Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper for reminding me why it is important that some of us on this side of the middle have made some agreements on the Danish economy with the current government, because it is not possible to endure if it is dependent on the Enhedslisten. Now I am not going to ask Mrs Pernille Skipper any questions about top tax, because I think that will be a deed. However, I would like to ask about the second part of the speech, because you could also turn it around and say that you should be careful that you do not create too many victims. And now the rest of us must understand something and come out in reality. If you look at a large number of residential areas in this country, does Mrs Pernille Skipper ever doubt that something really needs to be done and that our ghetto package was so necessary? It was many years too late, but it was necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622153351	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622153353	I would like to begin by saying that I am glad that I can help Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen to come up in the morning and somehow get some incentive, isn't that what the rapporteur used to say? There are certainly residential areas in Denmark that have problems. They have problems especially with a large number of people without jobs, a great many people with low incomes, low levels of education, that is, a lot of social factors, which mean that children have some lower chances in life. And, of course, it is a problem whose social and economic problems clash together. Well, then you don't have that sidemate's effect the same way. So there is what I oppose in the so-called ghetto legislation and ghetto package, it is a criterion that people's origins from non-western countries should in themselves be a problem and may in themselves constitute a reason for ultimately tearing down homes. I find this very problematic, because I do not think that the origin of human beings is a problem in itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622153501	Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622153502	No, it shouldn't be. It shouldn't be. But does it not worry Mrs Pernille Skipper when you look at the proportion of married couples on cash benefits coming from non-western countries? So, is it the case that because you have crossed the Danish border, you have simply lost the ability to work? Because you've usually worked where you came from. What is it that makes us generation after generation soon see that people don't get out of this, i.e. that a lot of people stay on transfer income? This is an example of the failure of integration, and we must break that. And the ghetto package was then an opportunity to break up this, instead of continuing to go together in the same residential area and confirm each other in all the misery; that's bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622153549	Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622153551	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen asks what makes it over-represented. It's not people's origin or skin color that does it. Sir, I'm afraid so. Søren Pape Poulsen, forgive me. Well, it's not like because your grandparents were born in Turkey or somewhere in a so-called non-Western country, you're more lazy... what's underneath that? Integration is difficult, that is quite right. Cultures meet, and it is difficult, and it can cause social problems, but it is not the origin of itself that is the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622153626	Thank you. It's Kathrine On Saturday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622153628	Thank you so much. I would like to hear the rapporteur on the following: on 17 June, the Enhedslisten acceded to the agreement on the extraordinary increase of the unemployed, among other things. We in the Radical Left, together with us, and in that agreement there were among others. A positive indication of examining the potential of an educational account, which we in the Radical Left have proposed several times. So it is an education account where you can save up for example. a change of industry or a breathing space in its working life. Perhaps this is an opportunity that is increasingly needed in a globalised labour market. So the question to the rapporteur is: now that the trade union movement is also bleeding up and more and more thinking it is a good idea, could one imagine that Enhedslisten would also support the idea of an education account?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622153721	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622153722	Well, I'm having a hard time imagining that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622153728	The answer was that it's hard to imagine. Here you go, Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday for the next question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622153733	Perhaps the rapporteur has jumped at the lowest level. I would, of course, like to hear a little about why.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622153741	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622153742	Honestly, I find it hard to remember the reasons for the education account. I'm gonna have to take that at another time. Sorry!
ParlaMint-DK_20200622153754	Then it's Mrs. Halime Oguz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622153759	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I noted that several rapporteurs from the Enhedslisten criticised SF's chairman, Pia Olsen Dyhr, for SF's adherence to the ghetto package, which among other things. is that we should not have a society based on alienation and oppression, where people can live out their potential and where freedom is made up. I'm thinking that's something that's recording the Enhedslisten. I also noted that the rapporteur attaches importance to the fact that these problems actually arise from something either social or economic. There I would just like to refer to the many reports and reports from researchers and crisis centres, which deal not so much with economic issues but with something cultural. That is why my question is: what has Enhedslisten actually got out of keeping people in freedom and marginalisation by opposing all the measures that will just do away with this unequal position and freedom?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622153906	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622153908	I think this is an extremely serious way of asking that the Enhedslisten should want to keep people in freedom, because we disagree with the procedures that the majority in this House wants. This does not exactly promote the nuances of the debate. But there is no doubt that Enhedslisten and SF have a very different approach to these so-called ghetto packages. I would like to acknowledge that the SF repeatedly says that for SF it is about wanting to help people out of social control. The only result is that a lot of people's homes are built on the basis of, among others. ethnicity or generally rising unemployment in society, as we see right now, can be torn down or sold off, and they will have difficulty finding another place to live. That is why we ask: Where are these people going to live? What, in fact, is it about what in itself makes the actual human being come out of freedom? I don't think that's gonna work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154017	Then it's Mrs. Halime Oguz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154019	I think this is a question of what comes first: the chicken or the egg. After all, having to live in such a closed society also means not getting the necessary education or getting to work. I would just like to ask another question: how will the Enhedslisten, for example? Help the girls who live in this freedom in the Gellerup Park? What will Enhedslisten do to help those girls?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154047	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154048	I do not think it is a question of the chicken or the egg. I believe that there is a risk of worsening the social problems. Bad opportunities in the education system, poor chances for children growing up in less favourable conditions than the average, are aggravated by the fact that people are also confronted with their homes being sold, torn down and that they have nowhere else to be. It does not solve the problems; it makes the problems worse. That's why we have this opposition to the ghetto agreement. In addition, Enhedslisten also has quite a number of proposals where we agree with SF, and I think that is positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154129	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154132	Thank you for the floor. The rapporteur used much of his speech to talk about racism. Thank God Denmark is one of the countries where racism is least widespread, but yes, it exists. There are idiots everywhere, including here. But let me begin with some quotes: please move. Move, white people, stand here. We'd like black people in front of the banners. We know there's been an outrage about it, but we don't care. Some screams aren't for you. Hands up, don't shoot and I can't breathe. Not everything is for white people, not even for those who have shown up in solidarity. This was the voice of the spokesperson for the "Black Lives Matter," Bwalya Sørensen, in connection with a demonstration in Copenhagen earlier this month, where several from Enhedslisten participated. Why do more people from the Enhedsliste participate in demonstrations that are racist if you want to fight racism?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154236	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154237	I'm having a hard time figuring out where to start. Why do Enhedslisten's MPs take part in demonstrations with the headline "Black Lives Matter"? Of course, you can ask them that as individuals. I guess it is because they believe that there is a problem with racism in Denmark and around the world. My guess is that it is in solidarity with the many people in the United States, where there is a great movement right now to get rid of a systemic racism that has led to the murder not only of George Floyd, but of many other black people only because of their skin color. If I may be quite honest and bumpy and say that if Mrs Pernille Vermund wants to take part in such a demonstration one day, it would be really nice, and then the input to how it should take place will probably also sound a little less hollow.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154338	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154341	Thank you. I would never dream of participating in a racist demonstration, and I would be ashamed if I had taken part in a demonstration where there were these slogans and where the invitation and recommendations for the demonstration itself were racist, but let it go. In New Citizens we are working to allow the Danes to vote out of the EU, and although the Enhedslisten and New Citizens' political differences exist, this is an area where there may be a little consensus. I would like to know whether the Enhedslisten still wants to get out of the European Union or how it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154417	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154419	I'm sorry, but we're just gonna stay a minute at the slogan hands up, don't shoot and I can't breathe. They are the ones who are being shouted, and when some people say that it would be best if black people were to shout them, it is because it is not white people who have been killed by the police to the same extent. It is racist murders committed against people in the United States, and the slogans relate to the racial problems that exist in the United States.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154457	Thank you. It is the case that we do not normally use English terms here without translating it, but I let it pass because it was, as it were, part of the debate that has been. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154508	Thank you. I simply have to start by following up on that. I should like to know whether, when you invite a demonstration and in that demonstration you make different rules for whites and blacks, that is, for those who are whites and for those who are not whites, where you tell whites that they should be at the back, and what do I know, even before the demonstration starts, is not the expression of racism according to the Enhedslisten. Or it's just okay. and superduper because it serves a greater and more beneficial purpose?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154541	Again: I was not even present at the demonstration, although it has been written in many places that I was. That's why I don't know if it was the rules. As I have seen it, there were calls for action. In addition, I would just like to say that the fight that is taking place right now in the United States, with which this demonstration was in solidarity, is racistly motivated by the murder of black people, and therefore there is no doubt that, as a white person, I do not know in the same way how it feels or how it feels. I think I have a responsibility to refrain from racism and to show solidarity with the people affected. But I don't have that experience on my body, and sir does. Alex Vanopslagh, neither.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154642	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154643	I don't think I should be ashamed of myself for that reason. But leave it alone. Let us move on to something far more uplifting, because what I really wanted to say was to congratulate the Enhedslisten on the agreement that has been reached last night; and congratulations on the fact that, for the first time, tax cuts have been made with the Liberal Alliance following an agreement, because we have reduced the electricity tax by 830 million. kr., and I think it's great that the Liberal Alliance and Enhedslisten can meet and ease taxes and taxes for the Danes. I am just so happy about that. So I really just want to know if there are any other taxes that the Enhedslisten would like to relax and whether it has actually also been examined whether the electric heating tax affects the Gini coefficient.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154721	I think it sounds like a really nice invitation. The Enhedslisten has an old proposal on how we can really ease the tax on the lowest income, so that the tax relief from an annual income of DKK 350,000 is reduced. Up and up. Then we get rid of this by handing money to those who already have a lot, and you really get rid of the tax at the bottom. It sounds like it's a proposal whose details I'm going to send to Mr. Simpson. Alex Vanopslagh. You can google it, too, but otherwise I'd like to send it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154753	Then it's Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154755	Thank you. One of the first things Enhedslisten got through by getting the Social Democratic Government to implement it was this temporary family allowance which ensures that immigrant families receive 2,000 kroner. extra per month tax-free. That is why I just need to hear Enhedslisten whether you will accept the temporary nature of the statements made by the Minister for Employment. Or to put it another way: Will the Enhedslisten accept that the grant will be cancelled?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154833	Is the special allowance referred to? Good. I definitely think that should be permanent. I find it hard to understand why we shouldn't make it permanent. If it stands for the Enhedslisten, we will make sure that there is a more transparent service system which does not differentiate to the same extent and has imposed sanctions. After all, we want to abolish the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, which puts a great many people into serious economic difficulties and exacerbates their chances of re-entering the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154906	Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154908	Thank you. So that increase of 2,000 kroner. extra tax-free per month for immigrant families implemented by the Social Democratic Government, among others. The unitary list, therefore, must continue to be there and continue?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154923	I am simply in doubt about what we are talking about. In other words, we are talking about the special family allowances for all families of children that we made as one of the first after we obtained the new majority. These are not targeted immigrant families. I do not understand why this is the discussion. But, yes, we think it should be permanent unless we can get away with getting the government convinced that we need to change the system of benefits so that we drop the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule and other poverty benefits that keep immigrants and everyone else in big trouble and make their chances of entering the labour market worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154958	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622154959	Thank you. Then we know the Enhedslisten. You can almost hear the fighting shouts. I must admit that when I heard Mrs Pernille Skipper's speech as rapporteur, I was leaving the Chamber, but I simply had to go back. Dividing people into brown and white didn't happen years ago. I think it's very, very unsympathetic. It is really racism that people are divided into brown and white. It was something unheard of years ago... completely unheard of. You do that now. Brown and white people, go ahead! Depends on the color of the Enhedslisten. I find that extremely unsympathetic. To the extent that an immigrant, an immigrant, may have to write a little more applications, I would say that if it is Aisha, one could imagine that, for example, the employer. Thinking, does she wear a scarf? Should she pray three or four times a day or maybe five? What happens if she becomes more radicalized during her employment relationship? So what do I do? Perhaps these are the thoughts that sometimes are. Is that racism? No, I don't think so at all. And we just have to decide on that. To say that there is racism in Denmark is so offensive to me. Is anyone crossing a line? Yeah. But racism? No.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622155113	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622155114	That's the whole point. It is, of course, the kind of generalising statements and the kind of stamping that one can count on a person called Aisha being radicalised, who is causing so many problems in our society. What is it to say that because you're called Aisha, you're probably radicalized. Well, that's the problem. It helps to create and legitimise the racism that exists in everyday life, where people sort out applications from people with Arabic sounding names only because of the Arab names, because they have the prejudices about them. And that justifies people being made a pig or what I also read a story about: When she sits in the box, people will not be served by her, she has experienced because she is black. It's because you have to think that Aisha is probably radicalized.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622155218	Here you go, Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622155220	I have to say, also to come back a little to what the other rapporteur has said, that if there had been any doubt as to whether there was racism in Denmark, it was, in turn, brought in with action here the other day in the demonstration led by Mrs Bwalya Sørensen, who wanted to divide people into blacks and whites. Isn't that racism? And if you imagined that it was different, namely that there was a demonstration where you wanted the blacks, as Mrs Pernille Skipper says, at the back, and the whites, as Mrs Pernille Skipper says, in front, what had happened? Where had an outcry sounded? We haven't heard that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622155255	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622155257	So again: I was not present at that demonstration. I find it very difficult to understand • especially when I hear and see pictures from there • that it should have been divided and that there should have been rules in the way it is reproduced here. But there are some things that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and myself do not understand, because we have the color we have and because we do not experience the discrimination in society that people otherwise experience, and that is correct. How it has developed into a concrete demonstration, I do not know.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622155330	Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622155335	There is racism in Denmark, Mrs Pernille Skipper said and thank you for that! Thank you for saying that from the speaking chair of the Folketing, because no one can doubt that. There is racism in Denmark, and how unbelievable it is, however, that we should see the extreme right competing here for who can think that it is most appalling that it is said from the parliamentary platform. So thank you, Mrs Pernille Skipper! Having said that, however, I would like to say that I do not really see Mrs Pernille Skipper entering the Ministry of Finance, as I see Mrs Pernille Vermund entering the Ministry of Integration, because there is then just money and money being distributed and money that has come from the fact that for 20 years there has been a policy which has been consistently opposed by the Enhedslisten. Now there is a desire for new expenses and expenses, but where should the money come from, Mrs Pernille Skipper?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622155431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622155432	Thank you for the first and perhaps also a little thanks for the second. After all, there is no doubt that Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille, no matter what party Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille has been in, and Enhedslisten has probably stood on separate wings when it came to economic policy. Nor should it be a secret that some of what Enhedslisten seems to have been a wrong trend or direction in economic policy over the past many years, is that reforms have been made with one hand, as it is called, to reduce social security, to reduce unemployment benefit, to reduce post-retirement benefits, to introduce poverty benefits for people who are unemployed or ill outside the benefit system, to cut down on some of the very basics of our welfare community, and with the other hand to distribute really, very many benefits, which have particularly benefited those who are at the top of our society. We want to redistribute more of the cake that is so that we distribute the resources in society more fairly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622155537	Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622155539	But cookies don't happen without bakers. If there had not been a responsible reform policy, we would not have had such a good economy. We wouldn't be able to borrow at such low interest rates. Mrs Pernille Skipper could not have helped to distribute relief packages to the right and left. Mrs. Pernille Skipper would like to take part in the party, but would not like to pay the grant for the coincidence. And now, as the Prime Minister has rightly said in Berlingske, we are going to behave responsibly again; we are going to build up again about the Danish economy, and what is Enhedslisten's response now the same irresponsibility, or is one going to be more helpful?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622155617	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622155618	I do not quite buy that it is the reforms that have created all the economy we are on right now, on the contrary. On many leads and edges they may have had the opposite effect, because insecurity has increased. Money has sometimes been spent on, for example. corporate tax incentives that could have been used to create jobs, including in the public sector. Again, it is not the case that the private sector pays for the public sector. They're addicted to each other. They support each other. It is important to have a strong private sector, but some of what makes Denmark so strong is also that we are in a strong public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622155658	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622155659	Thank you. I would also like to thank you for a strong speech on important issues relating to racism. When I heard the discussion with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who, like him, asked which legislative proposals would solve it, came to mind that if we could legislate for the absence of racism, then I think we should take it and do it immediately, but the challenge is that it happens in relation to people. One of the things I have enjoyed after the last election is, among other things, that of the European Parliament. a taximan with a driver who had a different ethnic background and who asked: What have you done to the media? Then I was thinking about what we had done to the media, and I couldn't think of anything, but then he said: it's as if when I turn on the radio, it's no longer like I have to be scolded all the time because I have a Muslim background. It is of course important what kind of words politicians use, what kind of conflicts they choose. Today alone I have been asked several times about the Islamisation of Denmark, and certain sections of the population have been declared a particular problem. I believe that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard said recently in a question debate that, in addition to a few greengrocers, immigrants have contributed nothing. Well, it matters how we express ourselves about these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622155811	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622155813	Thank you. I fully agree with that, and I also think that the debate we have now illustrates large parts of the problem. Well, it's a huge problem that there are people who, yes, I think it's a really nice story when they turn on the radio, all the time hearing that Muslims are like that, or that Islamization takes over Denmark, or whatever else you're told. And if, as an ordinary citizen, one hears the elected representatives stand and speak in this way, then it helps to set thoughts and prejudices in motion, which justify walking across the street at night when it is dark. It may be at the mild end, but it also justifies the things that are much, much worse. That's why I'm gonna give Mr. Knox. Morten Østergaard is quite right: we can do something, including legislation, and we can do more from here. We have a special responsibility in terms of how we speak, but I also think we should act more offensively against racism.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622155910	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622155911	Perhaps I also think that the reaction bears witness very well to what has typically been seen, including in the debate on equality and elsewhere, namely that there are at once some who find out that they are the ones who have the upper hand, i.e. those who are not the oppressed, for whom it is then a pity; and then you find a reason why they are also victims. I have a part of this debate, among other things. I was pleased that the President of the Left said very clearly recently that it was naive and privileged to say that there was no racism in Danish society. I think those signals from more and more of us will make a big difference to people around us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622155948	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622155950	I think that is quite right, so thank you for that speech, by the way. I think it matters that it is actually being said. For many years, the debate has been about trying to stop discriminatory speech, legislation, measures aimed at targeting or slashing certain groups of our society, and for once, the debate is going a little in the other direction. I think that is important and I think that Enhedslisten and Radicals have a common front, if not elsewhere, so at least here, in trying to hold onto the fact that we are doing something active.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622160028	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622160029	Yes, thank you, and thank you for a very good rapporteur's speech. And thank you for the indictment about racism I thought it was important. I would like to ask about the European Union. There is something that is constant in Danish politics, and that is that I am very concerned that we have binding communities, including between countries. And that is why I would like to ask, in the light of the crises we are facing, but also in the light of the developments we are seeing in relation to Great Britain, whether Enhedslisten has moved in favour of a binding community between countries such as the European Union, or whether it will continue to have only intergovernmental cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622160112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622160113	In other words, Enhedslisten believes that international cooperation, including mutual international cooperation, is extremely important in order to combat climate change and to ensure a proper reception of people on the run, with a solidarity of distribution between European countries, no doubt about it. Is the European Union that fantastic? No, most recently we have seen the problems of trying to introduce a European minimum wage, which is a problem for the Danish flexicurity model. We have problems fighting tax havens; we are even having problems at the moment in ensuring that the aid packages sent to businesses do not go straight to tax havens, I would have liked to say, because of EU legislation. It's not everything or nothing, it's not. But there is no doubt that Enhedslisten is in favour of binding international cooperation, but Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist also knows that we have a major problem with the way the EU handles international cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622160223	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622160224	Well, it is interesting to see how other countries in the EU actually act in relation to tax havens, i.e. how we sometimes use the EU as an excuse, and Enhedslisten does so very often by saying that it is the EU's fault, where it is actually our own way of dealing with things in Denmark. However, I am actually concerned with hearing something much more concrete, in that we are facing a health crisis due to corona, indeed, which is developing into a youth crisis in southern Europe and which is developing into a crisis of inequality across Europe. There is a need for us to stand together and work together financially to get the recovery that is needed and to get the investments we need. And there I just think it is important to hear whether you have decided whether you want to continue out of the European Union at some point or whether you want to work to improve the community we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622160307	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622160308	I would like to make one correction to Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist. On the contrary, the Enhedslisten never uses that wall all the time, since the government, with a changing majority, says that there are things we cannot do because of EU legislation. In other words, aid packages for companies in tax havens are one of the examples of where we think we should go to the edge and press EU legislation and ensure that we can actually exempt companies in tax havens from receiving aid packages. And there the government has not been willing to go as far as that. We are not the ones who use the European Union as an excuse. Unfortunately, it is some others.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622160353	Then it's Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622160354	Thank you. I would like to focus on a group that may not have filled so much in today's debate, namely the most vulnerable in our society. I believe that the Enhedslisten and the Conservative People's Party disagree on a lot, but I think we share a fundamental principle that when we have a welfare state and a welfare society, it is to address the most vulnerable in our society. These are the ones to which we have a special obligation. That is why it annoyed us Conservatives so much when one of these packages was made in connection with the corona crisis, which was targeted summer activities for children and young people. There it was interpreted as if it were a package specifically targeted at vulnerable children and young people. 220 million were spent. kr. When you look at how those funds were allocated, you can see that there were 200 million. kr. for broad activities for children and young people and only 20 million. kr. targeted the most vulnerable children in our society. How could Enhedslisten be behind that deal? Is it not a failure to focus on the most vulnerable who really deserve our attention when such a biased economic distribution is made in such an agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622160455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622160456	I wanted to say so because it was very well put up that we are in agreement and that the welfare society exists for the most vulnerable. I don't agree. When we have a welfare society, it is precisely not because we only have to help those who are most at risk, those who are on the edge. When we have a welfare society, it is for all of us, and that is why Enhedslisten is in favour of universal welfare services. We also don't think it should be the case that if you have a lot of money, you have to pay to get to the hospital, and only if you have very, very little money can you get in for free. What is important, of course, is that, when we have a welfare society, we create equal rights for everyone. In fact, when it comes to some of the most vulnerable children, it is also some of the broad leisure activities where you can join a group of children with a lot of other children who don't necessarily have the problems at home that you have yourself that make it so liberating and thus also helping many of the social problems. It is true that we need to focus many efforts on particularly vulnerable children, but a large part of this is about getting them into the broad communities of children.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622160606	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622160606-2	Thank you for a wonderful ideological answer, which can then help to emphasise how we look at a matter like this differently. As a Conservative, we really want a welfare society that is targeted at those who would not be part of society and who would not do well in this world if there was no supporting hand. I would just like to ask again how one can defend making an agreement where one communicates into the media, that it is targeted at the most vulnerable children and young people in our society, and that only 20 out of 220 million are given priority. kr. At the very least, the most vulnerable. Is it not a lack of solidarity that one is not willing to give priority to the vulnerable, perhaps placed children rather than to use Enhedslisten's language • the director's son going to football camp?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622160648	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622160649	One of the things that makes the welfare society work so well for the most vulnerable children is that the children who are placed and have social baggage and problems with them from home can go to football camp with the director's child. That is part of it, and that is why the primary school is so strong, and that is why we are constantly talking about the broad welfare efforts that are so good that the director's children do not leave because they can and who also have room for the children placed. But yes, of course we have to target parts of it, but to do broad leisure activities is not to exclude the most vulnerable children from the list on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622160729	The last one we reach in this round is Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622160731	Thank you. I would just like to comment on the debate that has taken place. Can I understand the words of Mrs Pernille Skipper that racist calls are in order for white people to be at the back? That was one thing. The second point is what I really want to ask, in relation to the area of disability, which has been debated quite a lot today. However, we know that, according to the Danish map we have launched, there are massive errors and shortcomings in the area of disability, i.e. the error rate in the area of adult disability is 46 and 91 in the area of child disability. I would like to ask Mrs Pernille Skipper: why is it that Mrs Pernille Skipper and Enhedslisten just here the other day voted against a proposal from the Danish People's Party to compensate people who have been mistreated in the social system? I am deeply puzzled, and I would very much like an explanation for that. For that is something that Enhedslisten has advocated in the past, namely that when you have been mistreated in the social system, you also have to have compensation. But Enhedslisten has voted against the Danish People's Party's proposal on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622160841	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622160842	I'm looking down frantically on something that reminds me of the Enhedslisten Parliamentary Group down here, because there has to be something. I do not know the specific motion for a resolution. If that is the way Mrs Karina Adsbøl puts it, that is to say, you have to be compensated if you are mistreated or if, as we previously agreed in the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten, it reaches, for example. a person with disabilities is deprived of a benefit, they must have suspensive effect so that the municipality cannot save money while the case is being dealt with by a review body. That is also something we agree with. So if it's like that and there's nothing else in it, well, it sure seems very mysterious. But I regret that I do not have the concrete proposal present.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622160929	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622160930	It is the case that the Danish People's Party has long fought for people with disabilities, and in the area of the elderly we have also fought for mistreatments in the social system. Last year the Enhedslisten also voted in favour of the Danish People's Party's proposal that compensation should be made; this year the same proposal was voted against, and it may surprise you that as soon as you are a support party for a government, you do not support it. But Mrs Pernille Skipper did not answer the second question I asked. Is Mrs Pernille Skipper in favour of racist calls? We need answers to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622161006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622161006-2	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622161012	Then we say thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper there is no more time left and move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr Pernille Skipper. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622161027	There's a lot I've missed in the last parliamentary year, and not least here lately. I have missed that all Danes could be safe in their everyday lives, I have missed being able to shake hands with people when you meet them, and I have missed being in government. But I think that I and a lot of Danes have also missed being able to be with others and help our close and loved ones who are old or sick. We've missed going to work, as usual. We've missed hanging out with friends. Instead, we've been together separately... that's what I call... not really together. Isolation, protective equipment and survival on auxiliary packages have not been a good time; it has been the time of exceptions. We have done many necessary things, but the time we have been through must never be index 100. Aid packages have had to be introduced, but this is a sign of crisis. Centrally, Denmark has been shut down. It was also a sign of crisis. The state has established rules for the Danes' everyday lives with a degree of detail that is enormous • yet another sign of a crisis. We must remember that the aim is to get out of the crisis, to end the state of emergency, to restore the freedom of the citizens, to allow the market to function and to make politicians more involved in the lives of the Danes. For many Danes, everyday life, as they know it, has come back. Others remain at home because they have completely lost their jobs. For 93,000 people, they have been given the heavy bill because their employers can no longer afford their wages. Much more people have had their jobs put into a coma then there is pay for a period, but you can't go to work. Fortunately, we have agreed to stimulate the economy. We have pressed; the Danes have pressed. We have had the government pay out 3 weeks of the Danes' own holiday money. An average employee now stands to get DKK 15,000. paid after tax and we continue to look for a majority in the Folketing to ensure that the last 2 weeks of the Danes' holiday money are paid out. This fight will continue in the coming parliamentary year, when the key issues of a conservative recovery plan are clear: tax relief for the Danes, tax relief for companies, export aid and massive investment in the green transition, which will make Denmark richer. There's something that can't wait until after the summer break, if it's up to me. Almost 100,000 Danes stand to become new top tax payers if they choose to get their holiday money paid. I have sent a letter to the Minister of Finance calling on the government to call for negotiations on how to resolve this problem. The payment of the holiday money was not intended for an additional 100,000 Danes to pay top tax. The idea was that the Danes should withdraw the holiday money and boost consumption and the economy. Now we run the risk of a lot of people saving their holiday money for retirement. It is probably not a surprise to anyone, but as I foresee that it may be difficult to collect such a majority in this parliamentary year, we propose instead of raising the limit for everyone by DKK 35,000. In the daily press, I have also found that a large number of parties are looking favourably at the solution I have also asked questions about this here today. I think it would be nice if we could work together on this and land such an agreement before we went on summer vacation. Almost 850,000 Danes' jobs depend on exports; they are Danish products for which we sell abroad and collect profits in Denmark. These are the companies that have helped make Denmark rich. For them holiday money is of no use; no matter how rich we Danes get, it does not make the Germans buy more goods. Here we must help Danish companies with the tax burden. I have suggested that we ease the burden on our companies, i.e. that we reduce corporate tax in order to make it even more attractive to choose a Danish product in the world. Unfortunately, the government and its support parties made it harder to operate in the last year, when they tripled the inheritance tax on the family-owned companies in which these 850,000 Danes are employed. They did so, despite the fact that both 3F and Dansk Metal have warned against it. I hope that in the next Assembly we will have the opportunity to correct the mistake that was made. A triple inheritance tax is simply neither fair nor a good idea in an economic crisis in which the Danes are already losing their jobs. Over the past 100 years, new medical advances have given us a longer life. Fewer people die of infections, we know more about prevention, yes, life has not only become longer, I have also improved. But we're still getting sick. The body decays with age, hundreds of thousands of Danes get Alzheimer's, col, osteoarthritis and other diseases. When the government returns from summer holidays, we need to set up our health system after we become more older and more runners in Denmark. The question then is how to solve the health challenges. After all, the government could choose to adopt the plan agreed by the previous government together with the Danish People's Party on the whole of health. The plan responds to the challenges facing health care. And when the government went to the polls, they said it was a top priority for those with health. Of course, I fully understand that the Minister of Health and others have been concerned with other challenges in recent months, but I also hope that after the summer the government will be able to release resources so that the health crisis in the short term does not turn into a health problem in the long run, because we do not have our health system adjusted in time. There are challenges that remain, even though we have had a corona crisis and they are getting bigger, the longer we wait to resolve them. And I do not believe that 2023, as I have understood, fits in with the government's master plan for when health is to be discussed, is in time. The same can be said of our climate challenges: the longer we wait, the greater the problems. That is why I am also pleased that we have finally opened the negotiations and that we have jointly delivered the first agreements. One might say that we are in a way following up on the 2014 climate agreement that we helped to adopt as the only bourgeois party. We were also the first bourgeois party in Denmark to say that Denmark must meet the 70-percent objective. I acknowledge that it wasn't our idea first, don't worry. And on Thursday we said that we want a green tax reform with CO2 Yesterday evening an agreement was reached on precisely green tax reform. The agreement facilitates 3.4 million. t instead of approx. 2 million t that the government played out with. We have got a subsidy pool for the green conversion in industry of 21⁄2 billion. kr. Until 2030. We will abolish the tax on surplus heat if it is certified and two energy islands are established. And every penny required for green taxes is sent back to citizens and businesses by a different and climate-friendly route. I think that this clearly shows that there is also a citizens' way to go to achieve the climate objective; a way in which the tax burden does not increase. A final and final hoop for me is the multi-year agreement for the police and prosecutor's office, which has been postponed even before the corona crisis. I do not want to describe it in many words, but I just want to say that we still need officers in Denmark. Because that agenda has not been up, it does not change the fact that police officers are still missing in Denmark, around our entire country, but also in some special residential areas. We still need prosecutors to handle the case pressure. I look forward to, and I hope that we will be able to agree on a new multi-annual agreement which will ensure the safety of the Danes. There is enough to tackle, and even if we have to go back to the Denmark we know, it can get even better. At least I cannot wait to get started, and the Conservative People's Party thanks for the year that has passed. And we return fresh after the summer holidays with even more suggestions to make life good for the Danes and lighten the treasure and keep the mood high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622161929	Thank you. The first question is Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622161935	Thank you to the Conservative President of the speech. The President said he lacks government. I do not want to say that I share the need directly, but I would like to sign for the cooperation and responsibility that the Conservatives still take. The rapporteur mentioned the green area where we obviously have very good cooperation, but also in the international area of EU policy. I would really like to return to the discussion we had last week, when a mandate was given to ensure that we in the European Union stood strongest. After all, the Conservatives chose to support a negotiating mandate which should put Denmark's strongest position in Brussels. I would actually like to ask the rapporteur why the Conservatives chose to do this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622162020	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622162022	Yes, we did. You could say that we're just standing where we've always stood. After all, it is our policy to send a government to negotiate with a mandate, and then we can always discuss when the government comes home, if we think it was good enough, if we think that the money it would then cost is in order and how it should be financed. But basically we feel that this is always the case. It may, of course, be a bit of a coincidence who sits on government every seven years, and that is why we think it is natural to give the mandate, just as it would be nice, if there has now been a change of government in the next budget in seven years' time, that the Social Democratic Party is ready to give a mandate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622162106	Here you go, sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622162107	I do not expect this to be a current situation, but, of course, yes, we must maintain that cooperation. I am also hearing the rapporteur say that fighting to keep the bill down and to ensure that we spend the money on the right kind of green, forward-looking research and something like that was really more important for the Conservative People's Party than the domestic political cashiers we had to have on many other things in our daily lives. So, if the rapporteur agrees with that, I would actually just sign for cooperation in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622162137	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622162138	Thank you. There are so many Danish jobs and Danish companies that are dependent on our EU membership and on the fact that the economy is in control and that we are also making the investments right. That is why we are behind the mandate that has been given. It has not therefore been said that I am so pre-discounting that the Prime Minister will only receive praise when she comes back and has made an agreement, because that depends on how things are going. But I think we should take every thing in due course, every fight in due course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622162207	Thank you. Sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622162212	Thank you. I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Søren Pape Poulsen in his speech on behalf of the Conservative People's Party emphasized that we had a police agreement made. Then I'd like to hear sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, how we will do it together, because the plan was that it should be made in the autumn and that we should get more policemen on training. There has been a police station in Jutland, which should be able to accommodate more police officers, and we need them. Then we reached the spring when the government said that it was now very important to have a police deal made, and now we are well into June and no police deal has been made. I would like to ask Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, whether the Conservative People's Party will help push for us to get it done quickly and that we will have a considerable number of new police officers trained so that we can get more law and order in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622162313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622162314	Yeah, I definitely do. I would certainly urge the government that as soon as we enter the month of August we get started and get the negotiations started, because there is and I guess I am not saying too much when I say that the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party had a very good cooperation in the area of justice in the previous government and also, I think, far along the way, very much alike that there is a need for more officers in Denmark. So I think we should jointly push for everything we can to train some more officers in Denmark. I fully agree that they are so much needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622162353	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622162354	When I ask a little curious and I thank you for the commitment to do so, it is also because we need them, among other things. for border controls, as we are currently seeing, but there are also many other tasks where it is important to get to the citizens quickly, and we need to get to grips with these long, long processing times, to help the victims and so on. But when I ask a little curious about it, it is because there was a climate agreement here on Sunday night or night. So you could meet a whole lot of people and make a deal like that. But so far the reason for not making a police deal has been: well, we have corona, so that cannot be done. Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen not that it sounds a little strange that, precisely when it comes to police relations, where it is important that we act quickly, we have not been able to reach an agreement at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622162445	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622162445-2	Well, I'm perfectly clear day and night if it's about us making a deal about the police, for sure. Now, unfortunately, I am no longer part of the government, and it is clear that if we had been or were in government together, or if Mr. Peter Skaarup's party was a support party to a government that I was part of, we had then hurried to call it. That is one of the most important things we can do at all. So I very much hope that the government will do it now. I'll be happy to take a week where we work day and night, but otherwise we'll have to get started very, very quickly in August.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622162519	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622162520	Thank you. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen began by saying that one of the things you have really missed during the Corona crisis is being with your loved ones and being able to be with your family, and that some of the things that must not be repeated at least is breaking up families. That is why I was pleased to see that among other things. The Conservative political rapporteur has embarked on the struggle for Danes with foreign partners to be able to be with them and not to be isolated from them. But the truth is, unfortunately, that every day there are Danish citizens with foreign boyfriends and spouses who are separated from them. There is a myriad of claims for spouse reunification, and the state is actually going in and deciding what is a suitable spouse for a Danish citizen. So I just want to ask if the Conservatives now, where they value and fight for so much, and that Danes should be able to be with their spouses, whether or not they have found love abroad, will also continue that fight, even when we do not have a corona crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622162624	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622162624-2	I do not think I can contribute more to the good atmosphere in this regard, in the Radical Left. For the immigration policy that we have in Denmark, we think we should be vigilant, and we also have to be aware that we cannot simply say that the borders, if you are in a relationship, are open. There is no point in us not sticking to what kind of society we have and what kind of society we have, and that is why we must, of course, take good care of our society. There have been some examples here in the Corona crisis that have been resolved. But I have to say, we don't stand where you can generally open the locks and say clearly that no matter where you find a partner and what kind of family you want here, you can have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622162713	Here you go, Mrs. Anne Sophie Callesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622162713-2	I just need to understand what's the difference. For what has been the problem during the corona crisis is that Danish citizens have been prevented from being with their spouses and at least with their boyfriends when they have found love outside Denmark, and that is exactly the same thing that happens every day. This is not about foreign policy; it is about Danish citizens having the opportunity to live with the spouse they want. Why can a bourgeois party support that the state should define who is a suitable spouse of a Danish citizen?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622162746	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622162746-2	It is not a question of defining who is a suitable spouse. It is also about what kind of society we have and whether we are just saying that it is completely open without demands. It is not the case that you cannot get married and get a spouse to do so; but that there are some strict requirements as to what makes it possible to stay in Denmark, I think is actually fair. Because we are a small homogeneous country and we must constantly consider what values we have and what kind of society we have created, and that is why I think it matters. That is why I think that we should:
ParlaMint-DK_20200622162827	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622162827-2	Thank you. Tech giants like Netflix and Facebook and many others have made a lot of money during the corona crisis here. Netflix, for example, has... country approx. 16 million new subscribers just for the first 3 months of this year. Unfortunately, it is not something that makes a huge contribution to our community, because these tech giants are masters in using tax havens, and so we in the SF would like a tech tax to be introduced. Therefore, I would like to hear from the Conservative People's Party whether it is the right way to go, that we work internationally for a tech tax to ensure fair competition here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622162912	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622162913	What is often forgotten in that discussion about tech tax, and when we discuss taxes at all, is that we in Denmark have enjoyed very much for many years by companies that have been able to develop products here and could sell them abroad. Company tax is, after all, in the absence of a better word, such a real cashcow for Denmark; it brings about 60 billion. a year. If it were to be about other countries being able to take special taxes from the companies that act or are present there, then we would have a huge problem. After all, we should be very happy that such things as this. Novo pays taxes in Denmark with what they develop. That is why we do not have an interest in starting to make a special tax on some particular companies. We don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622162959	Here you go, sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622163000	I am a little sorry that it is so clearly rejected. Because even if you are conservative, it is also important to recognise that society is developing, and we have a situation now where a local European's clothing store or auto dealer pays on average approx. 23% in tax, whereas, according to the European Commission, a digital company pays around 9.5 per cent. Baby. So there is quite a difference in how much you contribute to the community. Can the Conservative People's Party not see that it is a problem if we get a development where special companies providing digital solutions are getting away much cheaper than all sorts of other types of companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622163044	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622163045	Again: It is, after all, about what kind of products you get on the market. If we are then going to say that it is such a special tax for some particular companies, and if it can then mean that we have some Danish companies who then no longer put their tax payments here, because by detours we make it so difficult for them, because they also get tax charged elsewhere, that they then move their production out, then it is really, really bad for Denmark. That is why I think we should welcome the fact that the employees are paying taxes, but this with a special tech tax and the consequence that it could also have for Danish companies' tax payments elsewhere where they are, I think we should be very careful, and that certainly requires more than just a brief discussion from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622163125	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622163126	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Søren Pape Poulsen for the speech. I really want to talk about another speech, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen has given the speech he made on 8 March last year in Vega, where Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen said again as the first bourgeois party that you would have a consent-based rape law. This is a proposal that we have made many times in the Enhedslisten, so I just need to hear Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, whether the Conservative People's Party is still in favour of consent-based rape legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622163159	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622163200	Yeah, we haven't changed our point of view on that. I have to say that, in my role as Minister of Justice, I, like many examples of the table, and also many challenges about what we are doing with this legislation. I admit that I never thought I would speak on International Women's Day; I admit it, I never believed it, but it was a pleasure anyway. Now the Criminal Law Council has come up with a report, and then we dig into it a little more, and that should lead to us, hopefully, in the autumn of the legislative programme, being able to agree to make such legislation. I would rather not stand here and say how precisely it is to be put together, because I might as well be honest and say that with what has been going on for a while, this is not the report that I have spent the most time reading. But we are in favour of such legislation, because we think that is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622163253	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622163255	I'm glad to hear that. Nevertheless, I think we should try to go into what such legislation might look like. In the Enhedslisten, we are of the opinion that this should be a law of consent without exceptions, which means that there cannot be situations where there should have been no consent. We can't make a new rape law where it suddenly gets in goose eyes free to rape your wife or have sex with someone who doesn't want to have sex with you just because you've had sex before. So a consent law without exceptions. Is it also the view of the Conservative People's Party that new legislation should look like this? Because even if you have not read the report, you can have an opinion on what the legislation should look like.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622163337	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622163339	You can. I also believe that Mrs Rosa Lund agrees with me that this is a piece of legislation in which we really need to be keen on how we are doing things and what is going to stand. I do not want to say right here on the platform that it is absolutely without any reservations, because we simply have to enter into some negotiations on that, because how is that to be interpreted? I would like to discuss this further, and I do not think that this particular format is appropriate to discuss it in depth. But Enhedslisten can be comfortable about that, or I do not know if Enhedslisten can, at least we stand by what we have said, about the need for consent-based rape legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622163420	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622163422	Thank you. Thank you for a fine speech by the rapporteur and thank you to Mr Seligman. Søren Pape Poulsen for a good and constructive collaboration over the past few months has a good and constructive civil cooperation without too much tactics and spin, and what else can get into such a machine. Perhaps it's a little unfair that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen has been preached as the Prime Minister's hugging bear. I'd like to take back our bourgeois hugging bear and say he was only on loan, now he's bourgeois again. In January I and the rapporteur in Esbjerg met for what I remember as a both fruitful and educational debate. The theme was a bourgeois renaissance, and I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur agrees that the debate on civil values needs to be renewed. I would also like to ask the rapporteur to add a few words to what it is most important to bring forward in such a debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622163520	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622163521	Thank you. I'll see if I can make it in the time I have here. I would also like to thank you for your cooperation. And I just want to say that no matter how many people I get hugged by and whoever, I mean the same thing. But that's why it's still nice, isn't it? I think it is crucially important when we talk about the bourgeois Renaissance, which Mrs Pernille Vermund talks about, that it should go on several legs. Civility is, of course, classically responsible economic policy, where the Danes must keep some more of their own money themselves, but classic bourgeoisie is not just tax relief. Classical citizenship is also values, and it is about what kind of society we should have. And when people laugh at what we have been discussing recently about prayer calls, calls for speakers and say that it is just such a symbol policy, I just want to say that, yes, it may well happen that it is symbol policy, but it is also a symbol, and it just shows how important symbols are. Could it not be imagined that at some point the City of Copenhagen could become so red that one suddenly says that yes, it can be here, and then over the city roof we have to listen to it five times a day from a loudspeaker. I don't want a society like that. There are some values that we must continue to fight for, and fighting for some special values is also a bourgeois renaissance. I'm sorry, I don't have any more time, but it's a good subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622163638	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622163638-2	Thank you. And yes, it is a very good subject and it is wonderful that the resolution we tabled a few weeks ago has now turned into a joint motion for a resolution together with the Conservatives, the Left and, as far as I know, the Danish People's Party, so thank you for it. I'd like to know if Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen would like to continue this struggle for the bourgeois Renaissance when we come back on the other side of the summer holiday. Because it seems as if the optimism that was at the end of Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen's rapporteur's speech could actually lead to something that was slightly more bourgeois than what has been dragged on elsewhere for some time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622163719	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622163719-2	I'll always fight for the bourgeoisie, always. I think we should do our best to do that. In fact, for me, to fight for civility is also to make compromises every once in a while, because fighting for civility is also to pull things in the right direction. There are sometimes some agreements we make where I think that it was not only a delicious bouquet of flowers or a fantastic cake we got baked there; there were also some thistles in the bouquet and other things, but it was nevertheless drawn in the right direction. But I'll always be ready for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622163751	Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622163752	Thank you. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen has praised himself on several occasions in this Chamber today, and I do not think that we should be too fine for that, and I would therefore like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Conservative People's Party on the cooperation that we have had in the green area. It has been very good, most recently with an agreement yesterday. But when we have had the good cooperation, and there is the good atmosphere as there is, I am also a little surprised that bourgeois Denmark wrote a common chronicle not so long ago, where the green transition was not part of the crown with a single word. That is why I am wondering whether it is an expression of the fact that the Conservatives do not think that the green is part of a bourgeois chronicle, or whether it is, because if we are to stay a little in the metaphor, there are some thistles from colleagues who do not fit in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622163839	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622163841	It is the case that there are different policy areas that take up different places for all of us, and when you write such a chronicle we did, we came around a lot of really good things. It is not because we simply have to ask a counter-question from up here, but what I can then just say is: let us now imagine the current government, together with the support parties, also having to write such a common chronicle, then I would like to see the section on immigration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622163908	Here you go, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622163910	Thank you. I'm just gonna hold on to it anyway, because sir... Søren Pape Poulsen is a seasoned gentleman for this. I would therefore ask him to answer my question. Was it a consideration, because the Conservatives had different views on the green transition, that they did not choose to write about it in the cliché, or was it because some from the other parties thought that there were other areas that were more important?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622163934	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622163935	I would like to thank you for the immense interest in how bourgeois parties work together and write crowns. That's super good. I do not think it is a secret for too many people that for us the green transition and the green really mean a lot, and then there are others who think it is going to fill too much. I don't think I'm bothering you, for example. Mrs Pernille Vermund by saying that for new citizens, perhaps the green is not right in the top three on the political list. So when we're gonna write something together, we're gonna find some areas we're gonna agree on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622164014	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622164016	Thank you. I have a question for Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen on the European Union, the EU budget and the recovery fund, i.e. this whole pool of money that the European Union is now going to get, among other things. to give a lot of money to southern Europe. We had an exchange in Question Time last Tuesday between Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen and the Prime Minister, where Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen asked for confirmation from the Prime Minister that if the Conservatives gave a mandate to a much, much increased EU budget, the recovery package, etc., which could cost a lot of money for Denmark, there would be no responsibility to finance it, in other words to find out where the money would come from. I've been waiting until today to get an answer to that by Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, because I don't understand. I think that I have been working in here for a number of years now, but I do not understand whether Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen's statement conceals the belief that the government has a special bag of money that is not the Danish Treasury's money, because where else will the money come from if it is not from the Treasury? And if it is from the Treasury, how can we help to say yes to more expenditure without having some kind of co-responsibility to get the money as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622164124	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622164126	After all, the government in office must be given a mandate to travel to Brussels at all times. We must also recognise that we are a country among 26 other countries. After all, some compromises need to be made. When I asked that question, it was just to make it quite clear that none of us know whether there will be a bill and what it will be on. There is no one in this room who can say that today or I don't know if there is, but if so, I would like to know. When you have an agreement and if it costs some money, of course it has to be financed. Of course. There isn't a special box or a tree where you can take that money from. But it is more the principle that one can give the government a mandate for negotiations without having said that if it costs something, the government has already been given free rein to vote in favour of any funding it might come up with. In my world, it is basically said that it is the room for manoeuvre that finances such an extra bill. But I don't know what the government's gonna do. I think it is crucial that the government has a mandate to be able to negotiate on the best possible basis and on behalf of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622164229	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622164230	It's technique. And you can have different opinions about whether to give a mandate or not to give a mandate. Now the specific exchange of words was about the financing, where Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen wanted the Prime Minister's confirmation that even if the Conservatives agreed to greatly increased Danish spending, it would not be left to be financed. It is a responsible, old conservative party that has come out in the situation of giving a mandate for a greatly increased budget, a recovery fund and more expenditure for Denmark without being prepared to take co-responsibility to finance it. After all, the Prime Minister said in this Chamber the week before: when we negotiate finance law, we are negotiating a few billion kroner, and here we are saying that we must give more money to the European Union than we distribute in the Finance Act. So I ask the Prime Minister, where will that money come from? And the Prime Minister concludes: Should it be higher taxes, should it be taken from the climate effort and education? I don't have that money, says the PM. This took place in the Chamber the week before the Conservatives agreed to a mandate and would just like to confirm that you are not hanging on the bill. There's something here I can't get to hang out with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622164328	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622164329	But some of it may also be about Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and I may also look a little differently at what kind of debate and the result to be negotiated. No, in fact, I think we agree that we would like to see some of the southern European countries also look at pension reforms and some of the other. Of course they should. They should also be required. I agree with that one hundred percent. I think it is more of a matter of principle. I would like to give a mandate to the government, because I have never heard before that the government is not given a mandate and an opportunity to act in Brussels; but that I would then have to guarantee in advance that whatever the government comes home with, I will accept any funding that the government brings, I will not commit myself to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622164410	Thank you. Then it's mr. Nils Sjøberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622164412	Thank you. During the period that has elapsed, the Conservatives have come up with a proposal that there should be more doctors. Now I come from South Jutland, and there are very many places that are lacking in practitioners. I think it is sympathetic to want more family doctors; everyone can support that as such. But what I would like to hear Søren Pape Poulsen about is how to ensure that these doctors who are trained have a great desire to live in different smaller environments where there may not be the most attractive conditions for their families etc. So what, in addition to putting the proposal forward, will be done to ensure that it can actually be implemented?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622164456	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622164456-2	I think that the precondition for any further discussion is that there will be enough doctors trained in general medicine, that is to say there will simply be doctors to take off. Then, of course, the next step is, and I do not think there is just one explanation or one argument for us to have a dialogue with the practitioners about what it is that is needed to settle in the whole of Denmark. I think it is important to be able to have some professional communities, and when we talk about the family doctor, it is not Dr Hansen on his bike. When we talk about the family doctor, it is also medical houses where there are more doctors and where you might work with other professional groups I think it is absolutely crucial that we make ourselves very open to how this can happen. But the prerequisite for this to happen is, of course, that we get more doctors trained.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622164547	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622164549	Thank you, and thank you for your answer. I think it is gratifying that there is the positive attitude of the Conservative People's Party in this context. But in addition to just mentioning the communities that can now be created for doctors, hospitals and so on, of which I am absolutely a great supporter and can see the positive side, what will be done for local communities?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622164612	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622164614	I think it is absolutely essential that, in order for local communities to function, we must somehow ensure that this is something that we are involved in in here, and it is something that is being done in municipalities and regional councils that there is some basic service out there in our smaller urban community. I grew up in such places myself and can also see how things have just as quietly disappeared from there. At that point, I think it is absolutely essential to make sure that there is a certain level of service, that there is infrastructure, and it is both the digital and the physical that is needed in order to settle in these places. And we're gonna help with that from in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622164652	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622164654	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Søren Pape Poulsen on behalf of the rapporteur. I would like to return to the debate that took place during the speech by the previous speaker, Mrs Pernille Skipper's rapporteur, in relation to the debate on racism. I got a little confused about where the Conservatives were actually in relation to it, because one thing is that we can hear the Danish People's Party say that there is no racism in Denmark, but now the Conservative People's Party is a bourgeois party, which has some very fundamental values in relation to equality in society too, and therefore I just wanted to hear Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, whether, in the view of the Conservatives, racism exists in society in Denmark, i.e. both at the individual level and at the structural level.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622164755	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622164756	I do not think there is any doubt that racism exists in Denmark. There are people everywhere who, for some strange reason, can look mad at others because they look different, and it is quite hopeless. So there is racism in Denmark. So, do I think it's common? Actually, I don't think so. In fact, I believe that the Danes are a very open and tolerant people who, as such, accept people with open arms and treat other people well. So yes, there is racism in Denmark, but I do not think it is a widespread phenomenon, I do not think it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622164829	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622164830	Now I also wondered just as much about whether there is structural racism. For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. As was also said in the debate earlier, we know that if, for example, we do not have the right to vote in local elections, we do not have the right to vote in local elections. Name's Aisha, you have to send 50 percent. More applications before you come to an interview than if you have a more Danish-sounding name, it is not an expression of the fact that some individuals may have racist views, but an expression of the existence of structural racism. The same is true when we are discussing whether Muslim prayer calls should be banned and such a thing, because it is also a manifestation of a particular mindset: structural thinking, which casts out a certain group of citizens. So, in the opinion of the Conservatives, is it also the case that there is structural racism in Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622164917	No, I don't think there is. Then we shall have a discussion about what is really in that word. But immediately, I'll say no. I do not think it is an outspoken thing to say that we are, for example. don't want speaker prayer calls in Denmark. When I have visited Istanbul, I actually find it incredibly charming to hear that prayer is called five times a day. It is part of that culture, and I find it interesting that it is exciting, but it belongs there, and I must respect that because I have come there and experience what that culture is like. Similarly, here in Denmark we must respect the values that are here and the way we are, and it is not that prayer is called over the city's roof five times a day. Here we hear the church bells, for we have the freedom of religion equality
ParlaMint-DK_20200622165011	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Signe Munk. I would just like to say to Mrs Signe Munk that it is not possible to calculate that it is your turn, even if you have been in the past. There's a relationship up here, so it's quite fair. Now it's Mrs. Signe Munk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622165025	I'd like to believe that, but it was just because it started down here, and then it changed. But it's so fine. And thank you for the floor. The Conservative People's Party is proud of the green bourgeois party, and when you Conservatives talk about the green transition, I often find that you use the generation contract as a guiding principle. And in SF we actually believe that the climate struggle is also a struggle for the next generations. In relation to climate policy, the Conservative People's Party on the bourgeois wing has gone ahead many times, among other things. in relation to the Climate Act, and that is why I would like to ask Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, whether the Conservative People's Party is ready to put an end to the new oil hunt in the North Sea, i.e. say no to the eighth round of invitations to tender. Because we know that we must achieve our climate targets and that we must keep the development of the temperature at a reasonable level for the next generations, the vast majority of the oil, coal and natural gas in the underground must remain there and not be burned off.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622165126	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622165127	Yes, we often use the generation contract, and for us the generation contract applies both when we talk about climate and the environment, and when we talk about values, and it also applies when we talk about economics, that is, we should not leave the bill in the children's room etc. In relation to the eighth round of invitations to tender, I would like to say that this is a really challenging discussion. The Climate Council was also out to say that it would send a good signal if it were cancelled. Then they also say in the report as an example that for every 100 tonnes, there are 95 tonnes that go out anyway. Then you can say that it is a very high leak factor, and then you can ask yourself if it makes sense. And that is why I believe that this is something we must follow and look at later. But when the leak factor is so high, I think we should turn the slope one more time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622165221	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622165222	That's quite right, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen says that the Climate Council has actually said that there is a positive effect on the climate of dropping the eighth tender round. The conservative estimate said 95 per cent leakage, the downward estimate said 66 per cent. So it's just to say that it's in the range we're in. But they put two points below the fact that there is a positive effect on the climate, and that is at least what climate policy is all about for SF. In addition, the economic wise men have also said that there will be a positive effect on the climate by dropping the eighth round of invitations to tender. So when we are currently faced with the eighth round of invitations to tender and a government to take a position on it, we cannot just wait and see, so I would like to ask whether the Conservative People's Party is not prepared to do the climate a favour and drop a new oil hunt in the North Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622165310	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622165312	When the leak is so high, if we just dropped it now, and with the challenges that will also be in relation to jobs, one can say · and I hope that Mrs Signe Munk and I agree that climate does not know borders. And I guess it's no better to pump up a lot of extra oil in Saudi Arabia or something. Well, it's supposed to be something where what we're doing makes sense. And we just think that when the leak effect is so great, let's think about what we're involved with. I think there are a whole range of other measures that we also agreed on last night, which, in general, makes really good sense. However, I recognise that this is a difficult discussion, that is, what we should do when we reach almost 2050.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622165347	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622165350	Thank you. I can't help wondering how much it can fill the debate with this prayer ban, but I understand that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen thinks it's charming when he's abroad, but what time can't be spent on. I would like to return to the question raised by Mrs Rosa Lund about consent-based rape legislation. Because I thought the answer was affirmative, that is to say, that the Conservative People's Party is in favour of it. But then there was just a little leash in it, which is why I would just like to ask the other way round: Søren Pape Poulsen tell about situations that should be exempted from the consent-based legislation, i.e. situations where the absence of consent is okay? Or what is it that makes the answer a little hesitant anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622165444	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622165445	I've heard sir. Morten Østergaard several times today like saying, if it is about such more value-policy things, how we can care about it when we have to talk climate and economy and all sorts of other things. Then I think I just have to say that value policy also matters. It also matters what kind of society we get. And it is true that right now we are not standing in front of a tsunami of loudspeaker-enhanced prayer calls, but we do not want it because it is also about what kind of society we want. That's also why we had the cover ban done at the time. It is also about what kind of society we want. And we can then look at that differently; that is fair enough. In relation to the rape legislation, I would like to say that it was, after all, a job that we started in the previous government. Because it's not that simple. We have been looking at what models there are in other countries. And I want a consent-based rape law, but when I do not go into it any more, it is because I will simply be allowed to familiarise myself with the report that has come when we have to negotiate it here. Because there are several models of how such legislation can be adapted. I simply do not want to commit myself to that from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622165554	Here you go, sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622165555	I just think that we have a value policy here that actually expresses how far we have come in our debate on equality. Well, we know who the victims are in these situations and who is left with unfinished business because it does not lead to judgment and who feels that it is in fact the victim who is being accused. Therefore, it is a little central that one can express oneself about what one's values are. In other words, if we are in favour of equality, then it is fair to say: should there be consent or should there not be consent? What we are discussing is, of course, whether inaction is to the advantage of the one or the other, and I just think that if you have said that you are in favour of consent-based legislation, then you can also answer whether there should be exceptions. 'Cause if you don't, I guess it's just stealing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622165640	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622165642	Well, if it were that simple, I'd just ask myself if it is. May I say just as quietly that, after all, it was in my time as Minister of Justice that a work was started on consent-based legislation. I have also, I think, been out to say quite clearly that we should have one of these. Then there are a lot, I think, of challenges in relation to how to precisely link it together, and I also feel that it should be based essentially on voluntaryness. Then you can have a long discussion about whether it should be called consent or voluntary, etc. For me, it's just that sex has to be voluntary. End, period.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622165728	Thank you for that, and then it is Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen, the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622165730	Thank you. When I don't fill in here at Christiansborg, I live in the municipality of Vesthimmerland in beautiful North Jutland. Some call it Outskirtsdanmark. With us we call it Waterside Denmark. There are just some major challenges here, and that is that if you want to start a business or buy a house in the small rural areas, it turns out difficult to borrow money from the credit associations. What does the Conservative President think about setting up a State mortgage institution which can grant loans for housing in the outermost regions, for example? for occupation or ordinary dwelling?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622165814	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622165814-2	Now I wish the City of Vesthimmerland well. I have a summer house there myself, so I should like to work both there and everywhere else in the country for them to grow and prosper. I remember in the 2015 election campaign that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr and I were at Lolland and also discussed this issue, and there has also just been a resolution on it in here. After all, we do not believe that it is the state that should go in with such a special credit and ensure that houses can be financed. Then you have to discuss it, and you can see what kind of grip it is, what kind of demands you make from in here to banks and other things for them to borrow money out. This is another discussion, and we can always take it. So how tight the capital requirements should be with our banks is another discussion, and I would like to discuss that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622165906	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622165906-2	Thank you. Several credit unions actually say this isn't real, because you can borrow money, but the picture turns out to be different. Could it be imagined that the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy made some form of registration and could say: in this area you cannot borrow? And then we get such a real picture of how and how the complexity looks in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622165932	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622165934	I leave that safe to the business rapporteurs, but I think we should be careful here, because we are not going to have some special state guarantee in some specific areas of Denmark for housing loans. We are not going to go into that, because we must also remember that there must be a market and that it must fit the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622165957	Thank you. I always try to find areas in the opening and closing debates where Conservatives and SF can go into a wonderful alliance, and one of the areas I can think of, as I know Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen is very interested in the criminal services, including the prison service training. While Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen was a minister, we actually raised the problem that it is difficult to get new people into prison police training. A proposal that has been talked about for some time and that we in the SF are warm supporters of, but which Conservatives have not reported so clearly, is whether you can introduce wages during this prison service education, because many of those who have a profile and want to go on that education can't afford it, they can't live on the su, and they say it's an obstacle to getting more people to choose that education. There is a majority on the way, I can tell, but we are missing, among other things. The Conservatives of the Alliance saw what the Conservative People's Party says about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622170100	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622170101	I understand that the proposal is being put on the table, and the prison association has also been out to propose it, just as the police union has also been out to suggest that it should not be su, but should be pay. I think we need to think twice in here before we start to legislate and make agreements about it. So, in principle, I feel that this is something that is agreed on in the labour market, in other words what the conditions should be. And if we start on an education to say that there should not be su, there should be pay, then I think we should prepare ourselves for quite a lot of pressure • should we not just put it that way? There I think we need to find a way to make it more attractive to be a prison warden; that we are talking the subject up; that we are also looking at whether there is the right framework around it; that the prisons are quite modern. Well, I guess there's a big difference between being a prisoner in the new prison at Falster, Enner Mark Prison, or being a prisoner in some of our very old prisons. There, we must constantly think about what is the best possible security for our prison officers. I think that is actually the most crucial thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622170213	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622170215	My own old father is a prison guard, and whether you're in Herstedvester or in one of the brand-new prisons, the pressure is the same if there aren't enough employees. They are simply screaming for training some more. It was a political choice to decide that the prison officers should not be paid, but should have su. And I think it is very different from education to education, what is right; the educators actually want away from pay and have su. But here both the Police Union and the Prisons Association are saying that this is the right solution. Isn't it very rare for Conservatives not to listen to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622170252	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622170253	But I'm not gonna change my mind because Mr. Jacob Mark is asking the question one more time. But I just wanted to say that what was a little special about the last settlement we made about the Department of Criminal Services was that we actually set aside more money for more prison officers, but we just haven't been able to get it. We do not want to force anyone to become a prisoner, I think that would certainly be a bad idea, and we also need to insist that there are certain requirements to be met in order to do so. So I think it's also about making it attractive to be a prison warden not just about pay in education or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622170332	Thank you. Then there is no more for short remarks. Thank you, sir. Søren Pape. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622170357	I want to say quite clearly to the people: you can be confident that I will pursue the strict immigration policy that a majority in this House supports. ▪ This is what Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen said in her opening speech on October 1st last year. The statement was entirely in line with the tale that Mrs Social Democrat had recognised after 35 years of failure in foreign policy that immigration policy had been disastrous, that immigration from Muslim countries had been far too great, that integration efforts had failed fatally and that, because of these failures, the Danish society had suffered lasting and almost irreparable damage. Mrs Aliens' policy had to be resolved from scratch. The Left and Radical Left should not be allowed to stick a stick in the wheel. I was pleased that Mrs Voters should be able to trust that what Mrs. before the election would be Prime Minister after I chose to trust the Prime Minister's Since I and New Citizens got a seat in the Danish Parliament in the elections last year, I have taken advantage of the occasions that have been under discussion with the Prime Minister One of the battle numbers in the Social Democracy's immigration policy from the opposition period was the introduction of a new asylum system. I was and I fully agree with the Social Democrats in this area. Access to spontaneous asylum in Denmark to people from Muslim countries is the heaviest stone in the basket that has dragged Denmark down for many years. The access of tens of thousands of migrants to spontaneous asylum has broken down our national community of values, created runaway crime with violence and shootings, led to an increasing number of rapes, put schools and social services under pressure and cost the Danes billions of dollars a year. In addition, the system is enormously inhumane. You help the few and the strong at the expense of the many and the weak. But what has happened to it? Has a stop been put to spontaneous asylum? No, there isn't. Nothing has happened, nothing at all. Today, Denmark is as open and vulnerable as in 2015, when the latest big wave of migrants fell across our borders. Prime Minister To this I must say that we must not promise the electorate something that we cannot do when we gain power. Then you go into the black pot of the voters. Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen is at least smoking in my black pots if not the Prime Minister's ru The same can be said about the other fixed points in foreign policy. Are the criminal gangs under control? Are we being expelled from the aliens who are ruining our lives, threatening our security and blowing loud and handsomely on the laws of our country? Will foreigners be required to support themselves instead of being supported by Danish taxpayers? No, not until now. There is no control over the gangs, there is no consistent expulsion of criminal aliens, and the proportion of the publicly supported among foreigners is still away towering. It hasn't moved anywhere in a whole year. It's disheartening, it's sad, it's broken promises. I and New Citizens would very much like to help the government to honour the promises and solve the immigration policy from scratch. But we do not want to be a part of the voter's torment. We commend the government and Prime Minister And the fact is that, contrary to the promises of the Social Democratic Party that the Radical Left and the Left would not have any influence on immigration policy, that is exactly what has happened. Four times during this parliamentary year, the government, together with the Radical Left and the Left, has adopted concessions in foreign policy against the promises on which the electorate was bound and won the power of government. Four times New Citizens have responded again by activating section 42 of the Constitution, which allows a minority of 60 members of the Folketing to demand a passed law sent to a referendum before it enters into force. This has not succeeded, because although the bourgeois opposition has voted against the relaxations agreed by the government with the Radical Left and the Left, there has been no will to do any more. Of course, I'm sorry about that. I am convinced that if the Danes were allowed to express their opinion in a referendum, we could once and for all have shown the Social Democracy that the voters actually mean it. The Danes want foreign policy solved from scratch. You missed that opportunity in a blue block, just like you missed so much else. There is a lot of tactics, spin and process in the opposition. Ambitious bourgeois politics, in my view, is far too little. I have said this in private to the other party leaders in the blue block along the way, and I have also said it publicly in interviews in the press. Sometimes one of the five party leaders in the blue block plays out and raises the bar, sets civil values first, tries to draw an alternative to the red majority. I'm happy every time. But then it happens. Instead of trying with the brave to jump over the lifted barre, some of the blue party leaders choose to crawl under, and it turns into a bourgeois limbo dance for rhythms of tactics and spins, where it's about creeping low instead of jumping high. There is not much future in that; it does not move anything, at most a few mandates from one party to another. The ballet in the bourgeoisie must have more fire in the fejejemoget. For too many years it has been far too difficult to distinguish between bourgeois and social democrats. Civil party leaders have acted as political bench warmers both inside and outside the government. When they have been invited to dance, it has been to the Social Democratic tune played on the Social Democratic pipe. I think so, dear sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr After the summer break, we clear the table for tactics, spins, EU socks, white sneakers and rollneck sweaters. Let's take the dance floor, open the ball with a bourgeois go-go and put on an optimistic tune. Let us show together that we believe in the future, believe in the Danes, and that a bourgeois Denmark is worth fighting for. We can, if we like, draw a bourgeois vision for Denmark that embodies freedom, progress and country. Denmark really needs a bourgeois renaissance, and it is our duty to set it in motion. And bourgeois solutions to the problems of the Danes are always better than those of the Social Democrats and the Left. We have to stand by that. We need a plan for that. It's about Denmark and the Danes. We must give the Danes something to say yes to: a bourgeois vision of decentralising power, allowing politicians to decide less and Danes much more themselves, also over more of their own money; a bourgeois vision of simplifying instead of complicated, legislative less and making simpler rules; a bourgeois vision of giving more freedom to families, institutions and close societies; a bourgeois vision of putting increasing prosperity first, which necessarily means lower taxes and greater freedom; we must be richer; a bourgeois vision based on the common values of the Danes, where we are strong, innovative and capable in our national community, with space for those who share our values, obey our laws and support themselves. If we draw that vision and show the ability and will to put action behind it, we will win the bourgeois Denmark and the favour of the Danes. Then we will make the vision a reality even after the next election. Let's get started. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622171325	Thank you. Mrs. Julie Skovsby, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622171328	Today, and in this time, thanks are due to New Citizens and to Mrs Pernille Vermund for getting so constructively into the negotiations on the aid packages. Mrs Pernille Vermund mentioned this in this interview in Berlingske, and I would like to ask a little more about where it has been said that some of the blue parties have had an extreme focus on the process and spin in dealing with the crisis. What I would like to ask is: how would Mrs Pernille Vermund have approached this crisis management constructively? What would the bourgeois parties have done there?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622171431	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622171433	I would have recommended that we have done the same thing as the New Citizens' Party and as several other bourgeois parties did. But let me just make it clear that the spin and the tactics we have seen are, unfortunately, not so much different than you might have expected if the roles had been reversed. I know that it is the Social Democracy that is in government now, and I commend Mrs Mette Frederiksen for the way in which the Corona crisis has been handled, but I do not think there are any wings, any opposition parties that have anything to let each other hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622171506	Mrs. Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622171508	Thank you. So let me spread the question a little bit further: what does it take to bring together the opposition?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622171531	I think it will come all by itself, because now Denmark is going to face an economic crisis that needs to be resolved and the solution to the situation we are facing is not red. The situation in which we have a large red majority and where the government has mandates from the Enhedslisten and the SF puts the government in a really, really difficult situation where you have to choose between a responsible road or a left-wing road. I think it comes naturally to the Danes in the coming period that the answer that is right is the bourgeois, responsible answer and not the answer that is about distributing more Danes' money in a situation where the kingdom lacks money.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622171614	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622171616	Thank you. It's gonna be fun with a bourgeois gogo like that. But I was just thinking that we should also find out what it could then consist of politically speaking. For now we have often discussed foreign policy, and that is fine and proper, and we see things quite the same there, but in terms of economic policy we know that there are some challenges. That is why I would just like to ask Mrs Pernille Vermund to answer whether it is still right to understand that New Citizens are in favour of abolishing top tax, abolishing corporation tax, and that it should be removed. I think it is written that it should at least be 0 per cent, so it is something like that, isn't it? I would just like to ask you to confirm that it is still right to understand that this is the economic policy of the new bourgeoisie. And I would also like to ask whether the distribution policy has been calculated on the basis of how it will then do that there will be a change in distribution policy in Denmark after that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622171724	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622171725	This is how you build the unity of the bourgeois people, you get one of yours, not party colleagues, but another from the blue bloc to refer to the politics of New Citizens, as if it had been the questioner's own, and I stand here and will be quite happy and proud, and yes, it is the politics of New Citizens. It is true that these are the prerequisites of a 2025 plan that we put forward a few years ago before we went to elections. And for us it is absolutely crucial that we get richer in Denmark year by year. We are a growth-oriented party, we are a party that wants to give freedom and responsibility back to the Danes and also wants to give money back to the Danes. And it is true that we, DF and New Citizens, share a lot of politics, both in relation to the European Union and to foreign policy, but in relation to economic policy we are probably in separate camps in bourgeois Denmark. And that is, in fact, one of the things that may also be a strength today, so that we have so many nuances in being a citizen that the Danes have more opportunities to tick their marks if they are bourgeois.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622171827	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622171828	Yes, but it is a fine analysis of the situation and peace be with it, Mrs Pernille Vermund. What I am asking is whether the distribution effects of such an economic policy have been calculated, because that is where the water divides it, I think. But we only know that when we are told what the answer to the question is. For it is clear that if you abolish the top tax, if you significantly lower the tax on share income in this country, not from scratch, as Mrs Pernille Vermund otherwise likes to say, but from the top, and abolish the corporation tax, then it has some income and distribution prospects. I know that Mrs Pernille Vermund was tired of the Workers' Trade Council when the last few years made an analysis of it and found out that the citizens of part of North Zealand were only part of North Zealand, and that there would then be a lot of citizens in large parts of the rest of the country, where people would not make as much money as would be a little different. You can have a discussion about that, but it's just their bid. And it may be that they have been completely wrong, and that is why I am asking about Mrs Pernille Vermund's offer, i.e. whether an assessment has been made in New Citizens about how it would be distributed in terms of implementing the economic policy of the new citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622171934	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622171935	Yes, we do. We can see that with our economic policy as set out in this 2025 plan, all Danes would get richer. The only ones who would lose on it would be foreigners who were not in work. In relation to job creation, it would create 100,000 new private jobs; there would be fewer public employees, but it would be people who were released for good jobs in the private sector. So, yeah, we figured that out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622172004	Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622172006	Thank you for your speech, which was completely devoid of tactics and at the expense of others and the kind of things you do not need in politics at all. It was good, nice and uplifting. I would like to follow up on the dialogue that we had when I stood, where the rapporteur is now standing, on an issue that I think is at least very serious, namely that there are forces in Danish society that point to concrete public employees in this case in the Foreigners' Agency • employees who are selected on the basis that you think their name is foreign sounding. Then you hang them out because you think that you can't have a foreign-sounding name and then work in the Foreigners' Agency. I understand from the e-mails that I get that the assumption is that the employees are Muslims. And there was even someone who had been politically active, and then they thought: Now things are going very wrong; so, here is someone who has a foreign-sounding name, works in the Foreign Affairs Agency and has been politically active. I find it deeply unpleasant; I think it is an insult and I would like to hear what Mrs Pernille Vermund thinks.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622172115	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622172116	Well, if you look at it immediately, I understand that Mr. Morten Østergaard's perspective finds it unpleasant. I think that what you have to think about is that the Foreigners' Agency has enormous power over who is allowed to be in Denmark and who is not allowed to be here. And when we can see how our society is developing, when we have people that we want to get rid of, but that we cannot get out, and we have people that we do not want in, but who do, there are some people out there who may be desperate about the political failure that has been going on for decades and such as Mr. Morten Østergaard's party supports this; that is to say, a failure in which a policy of foreigners has not been guaranteed that works. In relation to the specific example, I do not think we should hang public employees by name, and I do not think it is disqualifying to have one or the other name or one or the other skin colour. However, in order to try to anticipate this, I would say that I simply believe that there are some people out there who feel the consequences of a misguided immigration policy so concrete in their everyday lives that people sitting in here do not dream of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622172227	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622172228	I might have been tempted, as it were, to base the answer on the idea that it should make a difference. Well, it's the same laws and rules that you administer, no matter who you are, and no matter what your background is in the Foreign Affairs Agency. So I hope it was not to be understood that Mrs Pernille Vermund believes that it makes a difference who you hire in the Foreigners' Board compared to what the outcome of the proceedings will be. Allow me to welcome the fact that, after all, it was clearly stated from the outset. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, after all, moved a little beyond that in the speech, which was only about the foreign policy, and acknowledged that there may also be other problems in Danish society that it might be worth doing something about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622172320	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622172321	Certainly there is, indeed there is. For us, the Islamisation of our society is one of the biggest problems, but having said that, we also have a gigantic problem with a left wing, which pursues a distribution policy that makes Denmark relatively poorer year by year. When I hear Mrs Pia Olesen Dyhr and Mrs Pernille Skipper, whom I can respect as people in other ways, speak economic policy, I am deeply, deeply concerned on behalf of Denmark and also on behalf of future generations, because we have a responsibility to ensure that Denmark is also richer when our children grow up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622172359	Sir. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622172402	Thank you. I would like to ask a question about CO2 2 2 So this is about ensuring that we tax negative externalities. It is about ensuring that there are fewer conditions for competition and that the polluter pays for the pollution that is now being created, so that we others do not have to clean up after it, but that these problems are actually solved through the market. Why is it so monstrous to set up our tax system in such a way as to ensure that the market solves the problems in such a way?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622172453	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622172453-2	The monstrous thing about climate taxes is above all that we are not a closed economy where we do not trade with other countries. This means that when we introduce climate taxes in Denmark, the Danish business community, Danish agriculture, Danish production etc. are in competition with production companies and agriculture in other countries. So as long as these climate taxes are not global, but only national, it is an extra burden on companies. When we look into what is done by agreement, where you promise each other that this will not cost anything, on the contrary, you go around and talk about that being a Dane is actually cheaper, I think you owe it to tell the many Danes who have been forced to invest in natural gas plants or other forms of energy over the past many years that they are now going to pay more for their heat, but that they will only get a gain if they invest further in a new heating system and then jump to electricity. It has been the case for many years that it has been forbidden in the building regulations to use electricity as a primary heat source. The rapporteur just wanted to know how many builders I have had, whom I have separated from electric heating and passed on to natural gas, because it was a duty or which chose natural gas for new construction, because it was a duty. They are now in a situation where their private economy is being burdened by this. I think that is unreasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622172616	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622172619	What Mrs Pernille Vermund is talking about at the outset about us being in competition with other countries is absolutely right. The problem is that one assumes here that the leakage effect, i.e. that jobs move to other countries, is one to one, but that is not the case. If you look at what the wise men say, you see that they are actually saying in relation to agriculture, as the rapporteur himself said, that the leakage effect is only 27 per cent if other countries also comply with the Paris Agreement. I think it is crucial that we also expect other countries to actually comply with the international obligations that exist, because it is true that Denmark is not an island, but if we just say: Well, Denmark is not an island, so we cannot do anything, but then we simply leave the problems to solve themselves, and they do not. We have to do something together, and we have to take the lead, and I regret that New Citizens will not actually be involved in this relatively broad cooperation to actually find some climate solutions that people across ideologies can see themselves in, in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622172713	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622172715	If it were up to New Citizens and we should take the lead, we should do one of several things: we should relax taxes and taxes on agriculture and remove the massive burdens on Danish agriculture. We should, because Danish agriculture is our climate heroes. Danish agriculture provides food with a very low CO2 produced unit, with very high animal welfare, with a very low OEF and low environmental impact. We have a global food market where there is increasing demand. So even if there is only a 27 per cent leakage effect, it is everything else just 27 per cent. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done on this subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622172803	Thank you. Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622172807	Thank you. And thank you for your speech, Mrs Pernille Vermund. Mrs Pernille Vermund said earlier that we were opposed to this tax-free lump sum of DKK 1,000. to all on transfer income, because it and I quote "go to immigrants and descendants." I just need to find out if New Citizens think you shouldn't have done it at all, or if it's okay to give to some and not to some others. Well, how would you do that division? Does this mean that people who have lived in Denmark all their lives but who happen to have a grandfather who lives in Pakistan shouldn't have had this, or does it mean that no one should have had this supplement at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622172852	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622172852-2	Our policy is that the right to public support must be linked to Danish citizenship, which means that we distinguish between Danish citizens and foreign citizens. In relation to the current agreement, we were opposed to spending money, where a large part of the money spent is also spent on foreigners. We like it when the public gives money back to the Danes, but in general we think it should be done in a way that ensures that the money that is being spent is spent widely, preferably through tax incentives and preferably permanently, so that it also gets some lasting growth going. This is a one-off payment, which is a bit a Band-Aid on the wound, because you think that when those who have worked and earned their holiday money are now paid out their own money, you would like to give something on top of some others, and I really think that is a rather strange way of disposing of taxpayers' money. For why should some settle for only three fifths of their own money, while others must have paid money, and then even foreigners who, if it were for New Citizens, should not have the right to public support in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622173006	Thank you. Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622173008	This means that New Citizens are totally opposed to paying out 1,000 kroner. e.g. folk pensioners? There will be plenty of immigrants living in Denmark who have worked their whole lives in Denmark, paid their taxes and now retired. Why shouldn't they also have this subsidy? It's still very incomprehensible to me how New Citizens would make this division. Is what New Citizens actually says there shouldn't have been this grant at all, so that people who have worked hard in Denmark for our welfare society and have now retired shouldn't have an extra hand in this time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622173045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622173046	We say that whether you are in one place or another in life, if you are a Danish citizen, you are entitled to public benefits. We also say, on the other hand, that if you are entitled to a national pension and have taken up a retirement pension, or if you have received an early retirement pension and you can prove medically that you are entitled to it, then it is the case that if the transfer income is changed as we would like, you have no other means of saving your money, and that is why you are protected. It's a situation that wears off over time. However, our aim is clearly to link the right to public support to Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622173129	Then it's mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622173133	Thank you for your speech, and I also choose to take a positive view of the praise for Social Democracy, and that a little has happened since Mrs Pernille Vermund recommended that we vote on Stram Course instead of us. So I'm thinking we're getting a little closer in some areas. I understood that after the summer break, everything was going to happen in the bourgeois block. However, we could not find out from the Danish People's Party who was their prime minister candidate. We were first told this in the election campaign, and we also know this from the New Alliance strategy at the time. Will Mrs Pernille tell us who New Citizens' Prime Minister's candidate is?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622173201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622173202	We don't have a prime minister candidate yet either. We are going to point to a bourgeois Prime Minister's candidate, but for us it is crucial that a policy be put forward that is bourgeois and that will also resolve foreign policy from the bottom up. After all, we are in the situation where we are several party leaders, who are relatively new and who may have had a time-out due to the corona crisis and who may therefore have to put out the major political lines.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622173229	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622173230	I understand that the Danish People's Party will not say that yet and that neither will New Citizens. When can the voters be told? Is it also first something you are told in the election campaign, as you do with DF? Or are you told before who the New Citizen is pointing to?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622173242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622173242-2	As soon as there is a bourgeois prime minister candidate who is rolling out a bourgeois project where he is willing to solve immigration policy from the bottom up, we are ready to back up. But that requires that there be some politics on the table and not just a party or a name. It doesn't work that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622173300	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622173303	Yes, thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I would like to ask Mrs Pernille Vermund about the tax policy of New Citizens. If I look up on the party's website, I can read that you remove the top tax, that you remove corporate tax, and Mrs Pernille Vermund was in her reply to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl mentioned that one was quite confident in doing so; it would create more growth etc., etc. I would then like to know whether Mrs Pernille Vermund will present the distributional impact that it would have if the top tax were to be abolished, if corporate tax were to be abolished, if the tax on shares and so on were to be reduced. Will Mrs Pernille Vermund and New Citizens present the calculations that tell us something about the distribution of income that it will mean if it is implemented?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622173404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622173404-2	We have already done so, and it should also be on our website. And that is the same answer that I gave to the rapporteur's party colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, namely, that if you implement New Citizens' economic policy, launched in 2017, which is a 2025 plan, then with the economic starting point that was then, it would mean that all income groups in Denmark, with the exception of foreigners who are on public support, would get more money between their hands. And it would also mean significantly more jobs in the private sector and significantly more jobs in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622173447	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622173448	Yeah, that sounds really interesting. At least I think that a little publicity should be given for that description of the distribution of income. Because I should say that if I hear that the top tax will be removed, that the corporate tax will be abolished, that you want to give the shareholders massive tax relief, yes, I really do not see anything other than that it will give a somewhat different distribution of income than the one we have today. And if Mrs Pernille Vermund can tell us what it is, then we will all be much wiser. In any case, I think that the right thing to do with the Danes would be to present the consequences of the policy we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622173528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622173529	That is what we have presented, and it is quite obvious that, if we take it as an example, for example, corporation tax will be one of the best means of attracting investment to Denmark at this stage. The removal of top tax will mean that there are people who earn more money from the work they do, yes, but there will also be more people who work more, who take a higher education that makes extra effort. So overall our economic policy means that not only Denmark gets richer, but that the Danes also get richer. And we have actually made a huge amount of money out of putting it together so that it is only foreigners who are on public support who are not profiting from this. And that also means that the places that have accepted many of the migrants who have come here are the spots on the map where there will be • what to say less profit from our economic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622173619	Then it's Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622173622	Thank you. One of the ways in which new citizens are trying to get their policies through is to table resolutions in this Chamber week after week. One of the resolutions was B 77 on the removal of recognition of Muslim religions in Denmark, and in that proposal it was of course important for New Citizens to stress that it was not about attacking religious freedom in Denmark, but just about removing Islam's influence in Denmark. But since New Citizens are proposing to remove the recognition of Muslim religions, is it not really about New Citizens seeing that there were no Muslims in Denmark at all? And how can one say that one is in favour of freedom of religion in Denmark when at the same time one makes motions for resolutions which clearly show that one does not want Islam?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622173716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622173716-2	I think, with all due respect, that the rapporteur is making the same mistake as many others who are discussing foreign policy, namely mixing two things together. Islam is both a religion and a political ideology; it is two things that merge. There are, of course, Muslims who opt out of political life, but in Islam the two things are connected and then Muslims. And when we say that we do not want Islam to have an influence on our society, that is to say that we also do not want Scientology or anything else to have an influence on our society. We're just not in the situation of Scientology moving into our society. And I know that Scientology is in fact one of the religions which is not recognized in Denmark, i.e. which do not enjoy the benefits of Islamic religions, for example. When we want to get rid of the recognition of the Islamic religions, it is because we can see that the privileges they have been given are being abused: for the repression of women, who are maintained by compulsion in their marriages, to invite hate preachers who preach hatred against Jews, and not least to promote the Islamic movement in Denmark. We do not want that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622173823	Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622173824	I'm totally in on that difference. I myself was also involved in discussing the resolution itself in the Chamber, so I fully agree with what New Citizens were doing, and fortunately it actually fell because it was unconstitutional. One of the things you might be able to arrest at New Citizens is whether it could not be an idea, now that you are so eager for a new immigration policy in Denmark, to go a little more real politically to it, so that these very bombastic resolutions do not fall time and time again because they either collide with human rights or with the constitution. So, the rapporteur himself said in his opening speech that we should not promise the electorate something that we cannot do, and perhaps it is not so impressive what New Citizens have achieved so far by foreign policy. So, could it not be hoped that New Citizens would go more real politically to the task?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622173919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622173920	We must not promise the electorate something that we cannot do when we gain power, and there is a very big difference between sitting four seats in opposition and having the power of government. Two weeks ago we tabled a motion for a resolution to ban prayer calls in Denmark. We were left alone in this motion for a resolution. It has now changed into a motion for a resolution tabled with Conservatives, with the Left and with the DF. So, yeah, we're moving something. As I know, this is the first time that Conservatives and the Left have supported a ban on prayer calls, and I hope, of course, that at some point the Social Democrats will move on to this too. It would be the most natural thing if you did not want prayer calls in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622174002	Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622174006	Yes, and I would also like to thank Mrs Pernille Vermund for her speech. I would like to ask Mrs Pernille Vermund a question which is very close to my heart as a legal rapporteur. Now I know that Mrs Pernille Vermund is also the legal rapporteur, so I would simply like to hear about this, that we need a new law on rape. I am concerned that this is going to be a law of consent, which is why I just want to hear: where are the new citizens in that discussion? Will new citizens back up legislation on consent?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622174034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622174035	We think this is a really, really difficult dilemma. For me and for new citizens, the dilemma here is that we risk putting some people in a situation where we are convicted of something that is not a real rape, but which is subsequently, what to say, exhibited as a real rape. We want to solve the problem I don't know if you can call them dark figures that there are so many reports of rape and as few as are actually convicted. There is a real problem to solve. But we are insanely concerned about the legal certainty that has to be, and this is typical of men here, because it is typically not women who rape the legal certainty of men, so you should not end up in a situation where people are afraid to have a close relationship with each other and be boyfriends or lovers or whatever it may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622174133	Mrs Karina Lorenzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622174134	I must say that is a surprising answer. I expected Mrs Pernille Vermund to stand on the side of the victims. I find it hard to understand what's wrong with having sex, telling you not to say yes. I must say, I'm really, really, really surprised. There's 6%. I think that Mrs Pernille Vermund does not know the figures for false reports, because it is really, really, really low. So I find it difficult to see the legal uncertainty in this and I have to say that I am surprised at the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622174211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622174212	Well, we fully acknowledge that there is a real problem. That is also why I mention the relationship between the few who are convicted and the many who are reported. We're on the side of the victims. I just think it should be kept in mind that it should not tip over so that having a sexual relationship becomes so complicated that the most natural thing in the world becomes something associated with guilt and shame. We need to solve a problem, but I am so concerned that we do not at the same time create a new one. That's where we stand. We are doing this constructively, but we are really concerned about where the balance is going to be in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622174253	Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622174255	Thank you for the floor. New citizens' rapporteur said they are against a tax-free lump sum of DKK 1000. to all on transfer income, because it also goes to • and I quote immigrants and descendants. Now the rapporteur says that it must be linked to one's citizenship. I should just like to understand whether this means that New Citizens are now rejecting the rapporteur's earlier statement, or whether New Citizens believe that a national pensionist who has worked his whole life as either a cleaning assistant or a bus driver has paid his taxes and has now retired should not be able to have access to the 1,000 DKK because parents come from Turkey, while the neighbour, who is also a pensioner, can have them?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622174344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622174345	Generally speaking, we believe that it is a problem when you start politically distributing such a region of gifts among parts of our population, because there are now some voters here whom you would like to attract. That's what we've seen is the incentive to hand out this money that's been distributed. Firstly, it is, after all, a ridiculously low amount for those pensioners who have almost nothing. It's for me to see a mockery. However, if we are finally to do something, do something real and help the people's pensioners who have the very least, lasting and not just with such a one-time payment. Secondly, we think that it is a problem for foreigners, i.e. foreign nationals, to be entitled to public support in Denmark. This is against our policy, and it is in this context too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622174434	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622174435	So the rapporteur rejects his earlier statement that it should also be descendants and immigrants. After all, that's good to hear. It is strange that you belong to the blue bloc if you want to secure a decent pension when more reforms have been financed by taking away not only from the unemployed and the sick, but also from pensioners. In his speech, the rapporteur claims that New Citizens will defend women's rights. How does this relate to the fact that we do not want to support psychological assistance for women in crisis centres? Are you only going to talk about violence-stricken women when it comes to demonising someone, but then you're going to fail when it's actually about helping these women?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622174509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622174510	In relation to the question of immigrants and descendants, it is typical that foreigners can of course be refugees, but otherwise the statistics are recorded as immigrants and descendants. Then there are some of them who have acquired Danish citizenship. But being a foreigner in Denmark presupposes that you have come here, or that you are born of parents who do not have Danish citizenship, in Denmark. So that's how it works. I don't think there's anything strange about that. In relation to the psychology issue, we have a problem with the fact that when we pinpoint those money into some distribution and, as I remember this proposal, it was a real right, it was a right one would give, not just an opportunity to make people victims in advance. If you are a victim, you must have an opportunity, but it should not be the sacrifice of women in women's centres and shelters.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622174607	Then it's mr. Nils Sjøberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622174609	Thank you. I would like to point out, following on from Kathrine Olldag's question, that one of the rapporteur's colleagues has at some point said the following in the Chamber: "There is a large group of people from Muslim countries mainly in Denmark who have done insane damage to Danish society because they simply do not fit in in any way whatsoever and have adapted to Denmark. It is one of the rapporteur's colleagues who has expressed it. More striking statements have also been made, but now suddenly there was a marked difference between whether one was a Muslim or whether one belonged to religion and an ideology, as I understood from Mrs Pernille Vermund just now. What I really want to know is first of all the following: I believe that there is racism in here. There are violent expressions here. I am surprised and appalled by many of the concepts that occur in this Parliament hall. What is the rapporteur's opinion?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622174711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622174712	It could have been a quote from me. For it is quite right that too many people have come here, who have not taken our values into account, who do not support themselves and who are far too much included in our crime statistics. It is a fact, and it is a fact that one has to relate to, even in the Radical Left, if one wants to solve these problems. So to talk about it is not racism... it is not. And if we start to call it racism, we are out on the wrong foot, because then we are failing in relation to what is real racism, for example. What we were talking about earlier today is Bwalya Sørensen's division of whites and blacks or some of what we heard in the election campaign, where the only two parties I heard talking about browns and whites were the Alternative and Enhedslisten. So it should not take place in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622174805	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622174806	I'm sorry, I don't know what should happen in Denmark. I think it is very important that we pay attention to how we talk to each other and how we actually treat each other, and that is crucial to how we actually unfold your life afterwards. What I would like to hear from the rapporteur is quite simply what it means for the rapporteur to generalise all people and say that all Muslims are in one way and that a particular group is in that and that way. If you are very general, you can say that many of those who live in these ghetto areas, which Pernille Vermund himself has helped to support up to be found, are doing a huge job. Isn't that the opinion?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622174851	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622174852	I do not think the rapporteur can find a single statement from me or from my fellow party members here in the Danish Parliament, saying all Muslims. But I can tell the rapporteur that I have been faced with this claim so many times that I almost have only, yes, deep sighs over it. No, it is not all foreigners, but it is an excessive proportion of the people who have come here from the Muslim countries; it is an excessive proportion which also creates problems for those who have taken our values to heart, who have assimilated and integrated themselves, who comply with our legislation and contribute to society and who are well integrated people. So this is a problem, and it's no use calling it racism because you talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622174939	Then it's mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622174941	Thank you. I would really like to stay on track about the tax policy of New Citizens, also in order to understand what is being proposed. There are several places where you want to reduce taxes significantly, and you want to reduce taxes, among other things. remove corporate tax. If we just look at 2017 we got 72 billion. kr. into corporation tax in one year, so it is, however, if we divide it that way into pieces of cake, one of the big pieces of cake that you want to remove there. That's 72 billion. kr., which you want to remove annually. There will also be a general reduction in taxes on labour and a flat 38 per cent tax. In the Danish People's Party we do not think that the Danes should pay too much in tax. The Danes have to pay exactly the tax that is necessary in order for us to have the welfare society as we know it today, with equal access to education, equal access to health and equal access to a dignified old age, just to mention three areas. So we also recognise that we need to look at what the tax burden is in general. But then when I go in and read about these significant, big tax cuts and both Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Mr. Peter Skaarup asks what the consequence of that is, Mrs Pernille Vermund says that the Danes will get to work and that the revenue will therefore come back. But when you read on the New Citizens' website, it says: New Citizens want Denmark to be able to benefit from globalisation. Therefore, there must be easy access for foreigners who can support themselves and contribute to society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622175100	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622175101	That is absolutely correct. We have said from the outset that if you support yourself and comply with our legislation and respect our values, then you are welcome if you are looking for a job in Denmark and, by the way, what should you say is recognised for or get the job. This does not mean that you are allowed to stay here forever, and that does not mean that we do not have to distinguish between where you come from, as is also stated in our policy. We obviously have very good experience with people who come from certain parts of the world, and then we have really, really bad experience with people who come from other parts of the world. That is why part of our policy is that we say that people coming from Muslim countries must really make a real effort if they are to come here and get a job. This means that they must have a job on hand that gives them a very high income. On the other hand, we think we can distinguish between them and a Filipino, Vietnamese, Chinese or even South European migrant.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622175159	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622175200	I had not dealt at all with where people came from; I had just dealt with who it is that should refinance the billions of tax reliefs that New Citizens will give. Now let's take an example like the Storstrøm Bridge. There, column workers have been brought in from Italy to 128 kr. It's an hour. They compete with a monthly salary of DKK 7,500. under what Danes get at the same place of work. Is this what New Citizens want to introduce, that is, that we now have column workers, just as we have in Germany, where the workers are taken from outside, and they will be working in Danish slaughterhouses and elsewhere? Yes, there is a low tax, there is not a very high corporation tax, and the companies are there. But it does not contribute at all to an increase in employment, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622175240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622175241	We want proper and decent relations, including for the people who must come here, and it should not be the case that people can be dragged here on slave wages, as we have seen. On the other hand, this is an area where exactly the Danish People's Party has contributed to getting more of this kind when you, for example, get more of this kind. supports the increased capital costs associated with the corona relief packages. This is an area in which we know from the past that this has meant that people have had to be taken in from other countries, because it is very large projects and we do not have so many employees in those sectors themselves, and where we also know that overall it does not benefit the economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622175330	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622175332	Thank you. I heard Mrs Pernille Vermund say about free psychological assistance, it is so in relation to a niche in society that it could help to clientize or almost make people sick that you give them a right to treatment. Then I have heard Mrs Pernille Vermund say that you should not promise something you cannot keep. But now Mrs Pernille Vermund actually has the opportunity to take part in an approach that can be held, because in the understanding paper it says that we want to introduce free psychological assistance for young people, and there are more young people who feel really bad; there are more who get anxiety, more who get depression. And even if, on the one hand, we have to set up a society that causes fewer people to have anxiety and depression, we also have to have the right to free help if we get sick and feel bad. That is why I would like to hear from Mrs Pernille Vermund whether New Citizens can see themselves in an agreement which introduces free psychological assistance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622175426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622175427	Well, unless the psychologists work without getting paid, psychology isn't free. Psychologists can be taxpayers' money, and then it's a question of who's gonna pay for this. Why is it a joint task to spend more and more money on things that have so far worked well privately, but which are now going to be put into the public sector, where we just know that everything that is being published will also be less productive, less efficient and therefore more expensive for the Danes? That is our real concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622175505	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622175505-2	You can call it what you want to debate in the youth parties, and there you have had it for 100 years, i.e. whether it is called free or tax-paid. I understand that it is taxpayers who finance our welfare society. It is also taxpayers' money when you go to a doctor or go to a hospital. But perhaps Mrs Pernille Vermund can then explain to me why it is that if you as a young person break your leg or get really badly injured, you should have the right to help, but if you have anxiety or depression and cannot walk out of your door, you cannot work in primary school, you cannot work in the day-care institution or you cannot work in youth education, then you should not have the right to free help. What is the difference? Or do new citizens not think that they should have the right to taxpayers' health care?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622175545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622175546	But perhaps we should really say: where is the limit? Because with this kind of argument one can stretch it so far as to say why it is not a right; one can go on. I can easily feel sympathy for the young people who are having a hard time. I have a great desire for us to create a society in which we do not have young people growing up and having such a difficult time. But I think it is a slanting plan when you make the public sector bigger by taking more and more trades and sectors into the public sector, because, as I said before, we know that when it is publicly run or publicly funded, it costs efficiency and productivity.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622175628	Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622175632	The reason why I am taking the floor is that Mrs Pernille Vermund almost went side-split when Mrs Pernille Skipper said earlier, yes, there is racism in Denmark. Mrs Pernille Vermund said to the Politiken at one point, and I am trying to quote as carefully as possible: a Negro and I quote Mrs Pernille Vermund is a Negro, and a Pernille Vermund and I quote Mrs Pernille Vermund is a perker. Can Mrs Pernille Vermund imagine people thinking that racism actually exists in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622175719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622175719-2	The use of free-volt languages is far from the same as racism, and when we are in the Assembly, I also think it is worth quoting each other correctly. What I said when I was given the floor after Mrs Pernille Skipper had spoken was: yes, there is racism in Denmark. Thank God we are one of those countries where racism is not a very widespread problem, but it exists; there are idiots everywhere. I then quoted Mrs Bwalya Sørensen and her racist agenda in the recent demonstration. So, yes, there is racism in Denmark, and that is something we must put to death, because there are idiots everywhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622175800	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622175802	Yes, yes, I did experience Mrs Pernille Vermund's attempt to sacrifice the majority population, and I did not think that was very tasteful if I were to say anything. I do not understand why Mrs Pernille Vermund and New Citizens are constantly appealing to the very lowest instincts of man, to prejudice, to hatred and, indeed, to petty racism, with the quote I made from Mrs Pernille Vermund before. Do you ever think about how it affects the people who suffer when you run your campaign to get more votes on this method?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622175843	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622175844	It is no more than a few hours ago that I was sitting down here reading a joint debate speech that the rapporteur had written when the rapporteur was part of the Liberal Alliance and was a great advocate of the ghetto package and of parallel societies, religious oppression and so on. I'm gonna kill you. I could, of course, turn the question and ask the rapporteur: did the rapporteur at the time mean that the rapporteur incited racism, or did the rapporteur, as I do, think that there are some real problems in our society that we need to be able to speak openly and honestly about, and of course with the respect that it is not said that it is all that we should not be able to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622175934	Thank you. Then I have no further brief comments on the list, so we thank the rapporteur. Then it's very close to 6:00 p.m., so I'm here to postpone the sitting until 6:00 p.m. 7:00 p.m. for dinner break. The next on the platform after the break will be mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622190037	The meeting is adjourned. No, the meeting is resumed. It was a little too early to shut it all off, although perhaps someone would be very happy with it. We shall continue the debate on the closing table, where we have come to Mr Beazley's report. Alex Vanopslagh from the Liberal Alliance as rapporteur. Then I won't shut the meeting down for the time being, even if somebody gets upset if it goes on until midnight. But let's see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622190116	When I woke up this morning, my first thought was: thank you, Mrs Mette Frederiksen. Then I had to pinch my arm to see if I was still dreaming or if I was awake. But it was all right. Thank you for continuing the wedding feast after the wedding, thank you for allowing us to leave again, as they can in the other European countries, thank you for allowing us to reopen our business at least most of them, yes, thank you for giving us back some of our freedom. Nevertheless, it was generous of the chairman of the Social Democratic Party. I think the Danes share that gratitude. We are a grateful people. I remember that a long-standing tax minister at one time told me that there was a single time during the year when he was really popular, and that was when people got their money back in taxes • their own money well to feel • because people waved and smiled and greeted him nicely, because they were so happy because they got their own money back. It's the same in this time. Every time the Prime Minister gives us back some of our own freedom, we are deeply grateful, and we are just waiting for us to be allowed to thank for something more, whether it is our own freedom or our own holiday money. On the other hand, gratitude is a little harder to trace in those who have to get just a little more of other people's money. If there's something we've learned from this crisis, it's that we generally have a lot to be grateful for in our everyday lives, thankful for having a daily life where we can visit who we want, whether it's in a local nursing home or a family abroad, the everyday life where we can trade with who we want, whether it's with the local hairdresser or the distant travel agency, the everyday life where we can meet with who we want, whether it's for yoga or for a football match. Fortunately, most of the evidence suggests that we can return to a more normal daily life. And that is not just something for which we should thank the President of the Social Democratic Party, no, we can equally thank the Danes for their common sense, for their personal sense of responsibility and their social spirit. Thank you for giving up, for suffering deprivation, for changing behavior and sacrificing you for the common good. You've shown real socialism. I would also like to thank the companies and the self-employed who have endured, even if they had removed the right to compensation in the event of forced closure, the companies that have endured, even if the compensation schemes did not exist, and the self-employed who have endured, even if they were not returned on full pay. I have no doubt that the vast majority of Danes are ready to continue to be sensible or to continue to be sensible and responsible and to show a social mind, but we must also remember that social mind is more and more than just doing as a social democratic government commands. Sometimes I have some doubts as to whether the government itself is ready to show a bit of community mind, that is, the type of social mind in which one ignores one's own need to control everything down to the smallest detail and instead leaves the keys to reopening society to the Danes, to society. That would be real socialism. Because society cannot be restarted or reopened and get started if it is constantly to happen under the grace of the government or under the zealous control of the government, because for this we commit politicians, and by this I mean we, and here I must once again both thank and praise the Prime Minister, who did just the right thing when this crisis started. The Prime Minister stated that the Prime Minister would make mistakes, and I think that is a concession from which all of us politicians can learn a lesson, because yes, we make mistakes. So thank you to the Prime Minister for the glorious humility at the beginning of the crisis, and indeed also for the concession today that for many elderly and vulnerable people ended up in loneliness. But apparently that's it. Those were the mistakes that were made. It was not a mistake to scold the IKEA for reopening stores within the legal framework, even if we were allowed to pick up pillows and sofas afterwards. It was not a mistake to close off travels until 31 August, even if it has unnecessarily damaged both family holidays and traveling, it was not a mistake to ban tourists' accommodation in Copenhagen, even though you ended up allowing it, and it was not a mistake to ban wedding parties after midnight, although it was still allowed to dance after the wedding. Yes, perhaps we should also thank you for having such a flawless government. Although we have much to be proud of and much to be grateful for and much we have done well, I still feel it is appropriate to give an apology on behalf of us politicians gathered to the Danes. Sorry we didn't do even better, after all, sorry that we didn't have any more confidence in you in the past, sorry that we yelled at you when you opened your business legally, sorry that we were one of the last countries in Europe to open our borders. And we regret the lack of logic, meaning and reason in the reopening of society. I wish we'd done better together. But we humans make mistakes, and here politicians are of course no exception. And just as we do not have a flawless government, of course we do not have a flawless opposition either. We're not. One of the mistakes we have made is that we may have suffered a tendency to put the panic and perhaps also the tactics at the front and the bourgeoisie at the back. A little too often it was so important to avoid being outside that we ended up in something that is difficult to vouch for. And I experienced during the crisis that there was a fear that got its grip in Denmark, and just under that fear lies this socialist care ideology, that is, the belief that the state can fix all problems for us: it can make us happy, it can love us, it can make sense in our lives, it can give us love and neighbourly love, and it can protect us from all evil, from diseases, from misery, from poverty against pressures in the educational system and deprivation and hard work and any other stone that the path of life can offer. And the answer is poor, because that answer is: higher public spending, more public interference and less personal responsibility. And there we bourgeois might have been better at quitting and showing another way. For the way out of the crisis does not go through any more state care or long-range aid packages or increased and extended social benefits or a larger public sector. Then we will only end up creating new, long-term problems, under the guise of thinking that we are solving short-term economic problems. That is how crises have been used before. Just take the crisis in the 1970s. Of course, I remember it clearly. Here politicians made the huge mistake of introducing the post-retirement wage. And I would like to thank the Social Democratic Party once again for the fact that over the last few decades they have had to roll back their wages, but of course the time has not come to introduce new schemes of the kind that are pulling healthy people out of the labour market either. Just as time is not enough to make it less attractive to work, or to interfere in the opportunities for companies to raise capital and dispose of it. No, on the other hand, we must make room for a reboot of the economy, a reboot of society, and this is what we do best by maintaining some principles of what we politicians can and must and what we should not do to ensure a society that continues to prosper; some good solid principles. And here I feel a need to thank my colleagues in the Left: Thanks to Anders Fogh Rasmussen for the tax freeze principle, thank you for stating that you should not raise taxes, but lower several, so that citizens get richer and we do not only have a rich state. Looking forward to new and better times, we must encourage working and investing more. I would also like to thank another former chairman of the Left, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who the other day suggested in a speech that we should lower the tax on investment, i.e. capital tax, to the level of our neighbouring countries, so that optimism and incentives to invest in Danish jobs are spread. ▪ That was an excellent suggestion, thank you for that. And I would also like to thank the Left for the principle that working must always pay off. I look forward to one day being able to thank the Left for following the principles in practice. In the meantime, I can promise that I will do everything I can to ensure that the Liberal Alliance adheres to those principles and that more people in the blue bloc follow those principles. We are not going to vote for higher or longer-term social benefits; on the contrary, we are going to work to ensure that the tax comes down, both top and bottom, so that it pays even better to work. I would also like to make the promise that we will not be taking part in opening the treasury wide open, as we have seen recently, as a mere gift book. We must remember responsibility and seriousness. That is, of course, at the heart of being a citizen, even in times of crisis. We must also insist that we stand on the side of freedom and on the side of hope, reason and optimism, so that we do not all end up being wrapped up in state care in the wake of the crisis. For we need reforms that kick off growth, which provide better opportunities for those who invest in jobs, for those who give an extra head in the workplace, and for those who move from unemployment to work. And I am full of praise and gratitude, so I must thank some Socialists once again, Mr President. Bjarne Corydon and Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt because, in the wake of the financial crisis, they showed that socialists too can pursue sensible reform policies when necessary. And oh, how I would like to express such gratitude to socialists again in the near future. But until then, you will have to settle for me. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622191110	Thank you. There are a number of questions. First, it's sir. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622191125	Thank you. Thank you for your speech, and congratulations to the rapporteur on the first parliamentary assembly as party chairman, not now as the second least experienced, but as the third least experienced party leader in the Folketing. I am thinking of the fact that the job as party leader of the Liberal Alliance is a job that the rapporteur would like to keep for many years to come, but if it were to happen that one day it could not succeed based on the speech here, I would recommend that you apply for a job as a Monday coach or perhaps host of the programme "Bagklog', because please, how should we hear a lot about everything we might not know when the decisions were to be taken? But enough about it. I had actually expected a speech where we should hear a lot about the Liberal Alliance's political project. The rapporteur spoke a little about the fact that it is time for tax cuts, and that is a song we have heard before from the Liberal Alliance. Just the proposal to increase the employment allowance and reduce corporate tax, I think, runs into a bill of 15 billion only. kr., so there's some kind of bill that has to be paid for the tax cuts that the Liberal Alliance means that time is calling for now. And can the rapporteur just not reveal how these tax cuts are to be financed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622191235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622191236	Thank you for the question. The economic space could be addressed, for even after this time of crisis everything seems to indicate that we have an enormous amount of economic room for manoeuvre of approx. 23 billion. kr. kr. more in taxes than there are costs. So we have a state that is significantly richer than it needs to be, and it is responsible to ensure that the money fits, but it is not responsible to ensure that the state is significantly richer than it needs to be, and there you can start by giving some of that money back to the citizens and back to society, yes, you can actually lower the tax on over 20 billion. kr. without saving as much as a single penny in the public sector, and I think that is the obvious place to address that. Otherwise, I have actually suggested in the past from this platform, not this one, sorry, but the one right down here, that we should look at how to get more resources out of the public sector. I have suggested that bureaucracy could be suspended for one year in the health sector and that we could see if we could save some money in this way and free up some more resources, and there I actually see a social democratic government that genuinely cares about how to guarantee more freedom for public servants, and I look forward to the proximity reform that is coming. A lot can be said about this government, I am busy scolding it, but it puts action behind the words with some things, and I hope that will happen in this area too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622191351	Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622191352	I can confirm that last one. There will be action behind the words and also to free the public sector staff more in a proximity reform, and I am pleased to hear that the Liberal Alliance is interested in engaging constructively in this. But even if there is revenue to be generated, it must be used to improve welfare rather than tax relief. No matter how you turn it around, there will be fewer income if we lower the tax, and in the years ahead it will be money that we have to finance the welfare that many Danes are happy about and support. So if we're going to lower the tax, what is it that needs to be cut? After all, debureaucratisation cannot be used to finance tax cuts for 15 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622191436	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622191437	Well, you can start with the 23 billion. kr. and then actually start a debureaucratisation trail and see how far one gets and otherwise make it more efficient. Well, look, we're spending 20 billion. kr. per year on business support. We spend almost 20 billion. kr. per year on development assistance. There are lots of pools and projects and dirt and cinnamon you could get to grips with and see if you couldn't do better. And again: I just have to arrest the logic behind the rapporteur's speech, because it is, after all, this state caring logic that the way in which people are cared for and welfare is increasing public spending. That's a poor and materialistic answer. I hope that the Social Democrats will do better.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622191511	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622191513	Thank you so much for your speech. I always think it's exciting to hear sir. Alex Vanopslagh's thoughts on life in Lidenlund and in Danish politics, and I share them far along the way. I also think I would like to thank you for your cooperation along the way, where I think we have stood in the sand about common sense and confidence in the Danes, who have, in fact, repeatedly shown that their ability and willingness to do what is right has surpassed even the mathematical models of the experts. So far, so good. I think it might be worth asking whether this is the right conflict, as Mr. Alex Vanopslagh is drawing up. In fact, it is about the fundamental view whether the Community's task is to set citizens free or to bind them • whether the state is there for citizens or whether the citizens are there for the state. It could be exciting to see how far liberal liberalism really extends in the Liberal Alliance. We have fought for open borders so that people could get visits from their loved ones again... should this also apply outside the Corona crisis? Should you also be able to get your loved ones to the country, if only in peacetime, if I may say so?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622191628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622191630	I believe that we should have better opportunities to get our spouses and girlfriends to the country, provided that it is not on public support. I think that one of the unfortunate things that has happened as a result of an extremely irresponsible immigration policy is that we are now tightening up the immigration policy so much that we are also hitting the wrong people, and I find that unfortunate. My feeling is that most parties in the Folketing are also interested in solving it, according to the Mint case, which there was relatively broad support for resolving. Here we share opinions. I think that in relation to asylum and refugee policy and how many Denmark should accept, I am more resident in the bourgeois camp, so to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622191714	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622191716	I do not know what is bourgeois or non-citizen in this context, what is liberal or non-liberal. But I certainly know that if you have the basic view that the citizens are not there for the State, but that it is the other way around, then it must also be a fundamental right that if you can provide for your spouse, you have the right to live with him in your own country. And I am delighted if we agree on that point of view, because I believe that it can extend good cooperation to things beyond the Corona crisis, so that we can actually restore some of the liberal freedoms which, under changing bourgeois governments over the last two decades, have unfortunately gone the wrong way, and that also applies to the government that had the participation of LA.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622191800	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622191803	I can briefly continue the inter-political cooperation by stating that another area in which we can hopefully cooperate and where I am rooting for the Radicals is the issue of foreign labour, that is to say, we are lowering the limit on when to come to Denmark and work. Basically, I feel that people who come to Denmark to work and have a job on hand should be more than welcome, but in relation to people who want to do so based on outdated refugee conventions, I think it is time to modernise the refugee conventions. But a distinction must be made between labour and refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622191832	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622191836	In other words, our flexible and dynamic labour market, both private and public, is the foundation; that is what lays the golden eggs to the welfare society. And the foundation is, of course, the fact that employers and employees have concluded agreements so that working days can go with work and not with conflict. And in order to do such a socially useful job, both employers and employees have the opportunity to deduct their contributions from taxes. Would it not be reasonable to carry out such a socially useful work through agreements and initial vocational training, continuing training, training of occupational health and safety representatives, etc., before you are entitled to deduct a quota from tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622191917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622191918	I do not believe that the tax credit should be used to favour certain parts of the trade union movement, to which there are particularly strong friendly ties, as some of the left would like. After all, it is those parts of the trade union movement to which one has a good eye that should be favoured by tax credit. And I don't think that's common sense. If you are finally going to make deductions for this type of thing, it has to be a deduction in order to insure against unemployment, that is to say, it must be what you want to treat people on the basis of. But at all, I find it hard to see why you have to deduct to be part of a red union and not a yellow trade union. I assume that's what the question is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622191958	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622192000	I'm gonna give it to Mr. Simpson. Alex Vanopslagh is quite right in saying that you should not make deductions to associations just because they are good friends with parts of the Folketing. That is why I also propose that work should be carried out in the interests of the community, among other things. In relation to the fact that it is shown that an organised and regulated labour market has been created through agreements. We could then measure agreements and say that we should have agreements too up to, let us say, 25 per cent. I guess it's not all in the world for you to be allowed to subtract the quota. It must also be a way of thinking that may be tempting to a liberal, that is to say, that one must work to get some benefits. And here it can be said that there are divisive associations like Krifa and the Professional House and others sitting behind the tandem and lifting their legs up while others are stepping on the pedals. Was it not a good liberal view to say: no arms, no cakes?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622192038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622192039	It's really amazing how, among other things. Mr. Karsten Hønge can believe that Mr. Karsten Hønge is able to give liberalist lectures in here in the Folketing, as if Mr. Karsten Hønge is an expert in liberalist history. But no, it is not liberal politics or liberalism that the tax system is used to favour some trade unions rather than others. Well, we can have a cup of coffee someday and take a little liberal theory and we'll get rid of the questions in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622192107	Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622192110	Thank you. One could almost get the impression from the rapporteur that the 1.000 kroner. tax-free and without any set-off to those who are outside the labour market is almost a waste of money. It is almost unfair according to LA, and I would therefore like to hear whether the rapporteur does not recognise that you are also part of society, even if you have become ill, even if you have a disability. Should I understand that you are a waste of money if it is post-traumatic stress and that you should say thank you for your early retirement? Can the rapporteur not see that it makes sense in financial terms that some of those who have the very least and who will not get the excess consumption that the rapporteur otherwise talked about, but who will actually spend the money on general consumption, would be able to get the wheels going while it is also socially fair? Does the rapporteur not see this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622192208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622192209	No, the rapporteur does not see that. Firstly, Denmark is not in a consumer crisis. There is no indication that our consumption is significantly lower than it was before the crisis. So there is no need to stimulate consumption. That's nice, but there's no need for it. Secondly, it stands to create 400 jobs to give 1,000 kroner. to over 1.8 million Human beings. Excuse me, it is an incredibly inefficient and foolish fiscal policy if it is fiscal policy that is the purpose. And yes, so I just disagree ideologically with the Enhedslisten, whose programme almost seems to be that those who work should be picked for as much money as possible so that they can be given to those who are outside the labour market. It almost seems to be the Enhedslisten's concept of justice, and there I probably just have such a reverse concept of justice at least the opposite of Enhedslisten's. I do not think it is fair to take more money from those who go to work to give to those who are outside the labour market. We must provide reasonable benefits, we can know about the unemployed, and then I actually think we should give them better and more dignified treatment in the job centres, and there we may have a common cause to some extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622192311	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622192313	In any case, we can agree that something needs to be done about the job centres. We are extremely concerned about creating jobs. We see, for example. the green transition as a genius in resolving the climate crisis, while at the same time creating jobs. We have several concrete proposals on what we can do and create jobs. However, it is sometimes a little difficult to take it more seriously or to know whether it is a pussy from the rapporteur. Because it often becomes such a magic trick with some tender reforms that are the way to create jobs. In other words, even in the face of the green transition, the Liberal Alliance has also given up. And then I just want to ask you about a reasonable performance. What does the rapporteur think is a fair and worthy performance both as a concrete figure but also what it is that we should actually be able to afford? Because it seems that the rapporteur does not quite know how far, for example. the cash benefits are sufficient.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622192400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622192402	That is funny, because that is actually exactly the question we have been trying to get Enhedslisten to answer for years on the part of the Liberal Alliance. When is the allowance high enough for the unemployed? We were part of a government that created a cash aid ceiling. We thought this was an excellent level, although it meant that you could get up to 18,000 kroner if you had two children and were on cash benefits. It may even have been to the high end, but we thought it was an okay level. We could be familiar with that. Enhedslisten didn't think so. It was poverty. It was simply poverty to get 18,000 kroner. a month from other people's money, if it was, you had two children and you were on cash benefits. So I guess the question is, how high is the cash benefits supposed to be? We've set a ceiling with the cash aid ceiling. We don't have to answer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622192434	Then it is Mrs Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622192437	I would really like to start by commending the Liberal Alliance for the good cooperation that has been under the Corona, because, like the rest of the Danish Parliament's parties, you have helped to take responsibility; you have helped to make agreements and to hold your hands under our most vulnerable citizens. It is positive and it is good. The welfare society has passed its test during the corona crisis, and we have to recognise that Danish society is unique and indispensable. The Danish community has shown its strength in earnest, and we have been able to hold our hands across political parties under our most vulnerable and vulnerable citizens. That is why we also need to talk society up and not talk it down, and that is why my question to the rapporteur is this: and I think it is rather boring whether it really is right that we should put in place, as we did in the parliamentary elections, that we want to cut the public sector by 10%. Well, the Liberal Alliance will cut 10%. of our public sector, without it having any impact on the welfare task we face?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622192546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622192547	Let me begin by saying that I am speaking up to society in relation to the efforts made by citizens in society during the Corona crisis; the way they have changed behaviour and a little deprivation and renounced, and have contributed in various ways to solving the crisis and shown a fantastic sense of community. It's something we've been together about in Denmark. So there I fully agree that we need to talk society out. One should remember that state and society are two different things, and I know that sometimes in the left side of the middle there is a little misunderstanding about that. And it has to be said that the way in which we have dealt with it by the state, the way in which has been very good in Denmark. We made a quick and effective shut-down. I think we'll also be happy financially in the longer term. And then there are some things we need to learn from. The Prime Minister mentioned one of them earlier today, namely that it has created loneliness among the elderly and vulnerable. There you were too restrictive. And there has not been solitude there. There society has not been able to exercise its community because the state prevented it. So it was something more fundamental and ideological. But yes, we want to cut the public sector by 1%. a year. We believe that there is plenty that can be cut away in terms of bureaucracy and inefficiency and, moreover, also in terms of services and tasks that should not be carried out any longer I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622192656	Thank you. Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622192658	We have just as political parties sent a thank you to these welfare heroes who have made a difference in a coronatide. These are also those to which the rapporteur is now referring must be cut away. So who is it? Is it the colleague of the educator who helps care for the children? Is that the teacher at school? Is that the nurse at the hospital? I do not see where it should be and, like the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, I would like to say that what the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance brings will be a bit of magic.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622192733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622192734	Well, it is not necessarily magical, just because the creativity and imagination of social democracy do not go beyond the fact that if you have to save as much as a penny in the public sector, it has to do so in relation to the warm hands. That says more about social democracy than it does about those of us who believe that more than one penny can be saved. Nurses during the crisis have been out saying that they had easier to do their job because they didn't have to ask a lot of middle managers. Perhaps the middle managers should go out into the private sector and find a job. We know that educators spend more time on paperwork today than they did in the 1970s and 1980s. Maybe we should look at how they spend less time on paperwork. That is what is primarily the policy of the Liberal Alliance, and that is something we have been agreed on in the Folketing since Schlüter's time, that is to say that we have to debureaucratise, but we have not succeeded in doing so at any time. Perhaps we should make it a common and broad task in the Folketing to achieve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622192816	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622192819	Thank you. I would like to follow up on my fellow Members' questions. It goes on this thing with the 1,000 kroner that should be a waste of money, at least if you look at the Liberal Alliance's facebook page. I think it's a little arrogant to say that it's a waste of money to give 1,000 kroner. to folk pensioners who have spent their whole lives building up the welfare community that has actually saved us through this corona crisis. I really would like Mr. Alex Vanopslagh explains to us why it is such a waste of money to give 1,000 kroner. to retired people, who are in fact some of those in our society who have the very least.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622192904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622192905	Because it's other people's money that they pay in taxes. Each time Enhedslisten will share 1,000 DKK. to someone who is not in work, then someone who is in work is going to make 2,000 kroner. and deliver 1,000 kroner. in taxes, which Enhedslisten can then distribute as gifts. I don't have my phone with me, but I want to find the many messages from among others. pensioners, but also by people who are on other public support I've got on Facebook, forward. They write to me and say they can't even understand why in the world they should have this money; so, they're almost offended to receive it, not because the amount is low, but because they don't think they've earned that amount. They do not see the meaning of it, and they have not been influenced economically by the corona crisis, and I actually share their view of it, and I also know that there are others who do not have the same approach to that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622192950	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622192951	Thank you. And thank you for your answer. I'm not surprisingly very disagreeable. Well, I can tell Mr. Knox... Alex Vanopslagh, that my facebook inbox looks a little different. I think it is very interesting that the Liberal Alliance is standing here talking about debureaucratising, and that we will not be helping to create a better everyday life for those people in Denmark, such as Denmark. is being whipped around in an employment system and being whipped around in an early retirement system. That would be to debureaucratize. But then we also need to ensure that those people have a decent living basis, and that is one of the things we have tried to do with this agreement that the Liberal Alliance has so much against.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622193035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622193036	I would be happy to look at how we reform the job centres. I mean, when I was standing here in the autumn of the opening debate, I was talking about spiritual poverty... people who get shoved in the job centres and lose faith that they can do something for themselves. We must then meet them at eye level and give them a belief that they can do something. I would like to be a part of that, and I think the Enhedslisten knows that too. But where I disagree with the Enhedslisten and where I think that Enhedslisten provides poor answers and contributes to spiritual poverty, is by believing that you can solve social problems by giving people more checks. I just think it's so basically wrong. You have to give people an ability and a belief that they can improve their own lives... not just stab them 1,000 kroner. in your hand and say, "Shut up, now you better be happy, because we've done what we have to do."
ParlaMint-DK_20200622193115	Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622193117	Thank you. I'm gonna have a little bit of an urge to ask Mr. Knox. Alex Vanopslagh the same question that I asked Mrs Pernille Vermund: where does the Liberal Alliance stand in relation to a new rape law? Like the SF, are you concerned that it should be a consent-based rape law, or what do you really think about it? I think we have a big problem in this area. 6% by the Danes indicate that they have been forced to have sex within a year, and I think that is a really, really big problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622193148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622193149	I believe that the area covered by the rapporteur is an area in which many of us have become wiser and more aware in recent years. And I would also like to pay tribute to those Members who have helped to push that agenda, because it has also helped to get an eye on some of us who perhaps did not see the challenges that existed in the past. There are several challenges. One of them is that the clearing rate is incredibly low. I don't know what it takes to change that, but I think that's one of the things you have to look at. Then there is the whole question of legislation, where you can see if we can get more voluntary participation, and I think we certainly can. But we must and must be aware in a liberal democracy and in a rule of law that we will not end up turning the burden of proof over, so suddenly it is you as a man/woman who has to prove that it was voluntary. This is not the way we do things, somewhere else in the rule of law. And I can sometimes be worried about that, i.e. whether that's where we end up when I listen to the discussion about consent-based rape legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622193253	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622193256	That sounded like a no to my ears. The rapporteur must correct me if that is not true. I believe that consent-based legislation is needed, because when you have sex, I think it is important that you say to and not say to, as is the case with the current legislation, where everything is put on one side. But we agree on the question of the level of clarification. I also think something needs to be done there, and that is why the SF is going to police negotiations with a desire for a special police unit here. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur can support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622193337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622193338	I do not wish to reject that in advance. I believe that those who are diligently involved in the negotiations on the multi-annual police agreement may have noticed that I am not taking part very closely. So it's not a proposal I've been studying yet. I mean, I always get a little skeptical when I hear that now we have to make a special task force, a special unit. We had the discussion on the other day whether to offer special psychological treatment to those who have done stalking, and I feel a bit like this, that we can do so if there is professional evidence that it works. But we should not just fall in love with a solution and then invent the problem afterwards if it makes sense. So if a task force works, I'll guess we'll back it up, yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622193415	Then it's Mrs. Birgitte Wind.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622193419	Thank you for the floor. I shall begin by expressing my support for the rapporteur's speech. Well, I noticed that mr. Alex Vanopslagh praised the people, the Folketing, but even the government, and that is a praise we welcome in the Social Democratic Party. There was praise for the way in which corona has been tackled, and I actually also heard a praise for having a strong state. Is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh agrees with the Liberal Alliance's health rapporteur, Henrik Dahl? It is a pity that so many people in the blue block are so stubbornly sticking to the criticism of the Danish strategy, which is therefore not very Danish, instead of being happy that we have knocked down the epidemic so that we can get started with economic reconstruction. • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20200622193514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622193515	Let me divide the question into two. It's about whether to have a strong state. Well, excuse me, but the state failed somewhere. The authorities and the National Health Service underestimated the threat. It was thought at some point that the infection would not come to Denmark at all. I do not look at the current or former governments reproachfully, because no one has ever gone into the choice of more protective equipment and greater testing capacity nor was Liberal Alliance, but we were just not ready to deal with this threat, and that is why the government intervened and shut down. However, in relation to whether the state should be strong, I would say that the state was simply not able to do so, and that is why political action had to be taken with a hard shut-down, and then we ended up following what I would call the European lead. And, yes, that is wise, because, as the Prime Minister has also mentioned several times, you have to create such a hammer and dance strategy, where you first knock down the infection and then, with an effective testing, tracing and isolation strategy, you can manage the infection. We haven't been good enough to test and track down before. I hope and believe that we will be better at this in the future, because that is the prerequisite for not shutting down again. And then I can be on Monday coach hindsight and think that we shut down too long and maybe too extensive, but after all, I can't hold the government against that, because how would you know in advance?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622193624	Then it's Mrs. Birgitte Wind.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622193626	Thank you. In the same interview with Weekendavisen, the Liberal Alliance's health rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dahl, yes to the question whether, in short, he was more in agreement with the government than with the parties in the blue bloc when it came to the main lines of the Corona strategy. Is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh reached the same conclusion to be more in agreement with the government than with the blue block?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622193650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622193651	It's not to make bad excuses, but I didn't hear what part should I agree with? Excuse me. Could the rapporteur repeat that? I'd like to answer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622193656	Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622193659	Do you want me to repeat the question? Alex Vanopslagh Yes, at least the part you quoted. ) In the same interview with Weekendavisen, the Liberal Alliance's health rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dahl, yes to the question of whether, in short, he was more in agreement with the government than with the parties in the blue bloc when it came to the main lines of the Corona strategy. Is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh reached the same conclusion?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622193716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622193717	I have not seen that other parties in the blue block have offered an alternative way, apart from one of them. Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen has said that more tests should be carried out and that better detection should be carried out just like Mr Ellemann-Jensen. Henrik Dahl has suggested it. So maybe it's sir. Henrik Dahl, who hasn't been watching enough, among others. some of the Left's proposals in relation to more tests and better detection. We can't all read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622193738	Then we'll go over to mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622193749	Thank you. What brought me to the button was, in fact, that sir. Alex Vanopslagh mocked Enhedslisten to try to take account of some of the less well-off in society, and that is exactly a few weeks after Mr. Alex Vanopslagh has repeatedly pressed the green button when the business community should have not only a few thousand kroner, but billions of kroner, so that the state actually now has a nice debt after the corona crisis. There I thought: Why is there so much difference between those at the top and those at the bottom? Surely we must try to help all Danes to have a good life and a good future, and they all have a great role to play in the development of society. Surely it is not the case that it is only the top that develops and the others are winding up, or how is the vision of the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622193835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622193837	Well, I understand that the human vision of Enhedslisten continues to be that if you're going to help people for a good future, you have to give them checks. That's a poor and materialistic answer. That's not what makes us happy. That's not what gives our lives meaning. Yes, it can provide some security and some security, but what gives our lives meaning is that we have plans and take initiatives and feel that we are masters of our own lives. That is what gives our lives meaning and not that we get checks from other people. On the question of companies, I would like to say that we removed the right to compensation in the event of forced closure, and then I think it is actually right that some compensation should be granted, in other words, in the case of forced closure or de facto closure. So I don't have any moral scruples with that. I would just like to point out that we have actually voted against the extension of the recent aid packages because we think it is unhealthy in the long run, just as the economic group of experts has stated. Had it been up to us alone, we would probably have focused more on some liquidity-supporting measures rather than bureaucratic support schemes with ceilings and requirements and one and the other and the third. But I have no problem saying that when you remove the right to compensation, you have to make some compensation instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622193940	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622193940-2	Thank you. It has been an eye-opener for me to see that liberals go all the way to the socialist camp and say that Keynes is actually better than the old liberal economists and that we therefore have to open the boxes when needed. It is clear that the friends at the top of the country will, of course, be sad when we again have to pay the bill and it is the richest who will pay. I know that, and that is also the policy of the Liberal Alliance. But I think that LA's rapporteur forgets one thing, and that is that if we give 1,000 kroner. For one of the poorest in the country, they are actually used to create jobs in Denmark. If you give 1,000 kroner. For one of the richest, it is very, very unlikely that they will be used to create jobs. That is why it is common sense, when we need to boost activity and get society going, to give them to the people who benefit most from them and create the most jobs out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622194034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622194035	But Denmark is not in a consumer crisis, and that is why we have not proposed that money should be pumped into society for that reason. Then Mr. Christian Juhl, that if you give 1,000 kroner. To all those who are unemployed, it stimulates the economy. We already have. It stands to provide 400 jobs • 400 jobs. We have lost over 70 000 jobs. Even Enhedslisten cannot think that is a good crisis policy. And then I just have to make it clear in the end that the way Enhedslisten has fought for the extension of aid packages and the like means that you have been a friend of the business stop. For what the aid packages for the self-employed do is not to protect jobs; it is to protect the owners of companies. If there were no aid packages, the companies would probably still have continued, it would have been just with new owners.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622194117	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Alex Vanopslagh. There are no more questions. Alex Vanopslagh Well, that's nice). I'm sorry. It's nice when members of parliament want to stay on the platform. That's great. We move on to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622194144	Thank you, President. Today is the end of the most eventful parliamentary year I have experienced in my 5 years in here at Christiansborg. That is, not least because our country has been plunged into the greatest crisis since World War II. It has been an unfortunate time for many, but it has also been a crisis in which many have had the opportunity to jump out of the hamster wheel and live in a different way. Our children have been home, many of us have worked from home, while others have lost the job or their business. And then there are those who, unfortunately, have lost someone they love. The whole situation around the corona has given us a moment to stop and think about whether we are really living the life we want. Is it really worth it, or could we live in another way? That, in fact, was also the question we asked ourselves seven years ago when we set up the alternative. And when we see that the number of premature babies falls by 90%. During the corona crisis, we have to ask ourselves again: is the way we live really the healthiest? When air pollution falls by 35%. During the corona crisis, we must ask ourselves: Is the way we live really the smartest? When social workers say that they have had better contact with some of the most vulnerable citizens during the corona crisis than they do everyday, we have to ask ourselves: is coercion and control and administration of the unemployed the right way to go? We have learned many things that we can take with us from the corona crisis, instead of just jumping unconditionally back into the hamster wheel. Maybe we shouldn't work ourselves half to death and have a huge stress epidemic. Perhaps everything is actually better connected if we share the work and only work 30 hours a week. Perhaps we are better equipped for similar crises if we had an unconditional basic income as a safety net under all of us. Either way, the corona crisis has shown that we can stand together and make huge changes in a very short time. In this connection, it was for the sake of the elderly and vulnerable people all over the world. In the alternative, we hope that we can take the consensus and global action with us to resolve the very major crises we are facing in advance, namely the global climate and nature crisis and the accelerating economic inequality. This requires that we look at a concept that is absolutely fundamental to a society and a democracy, and that is the concept of freedom. From the outset, we have said that the Alternative is a value-based party... our policy is based on six basic values... but we are also a longing party. We long for more freedom. We long for freedom with responsibility, a freedom to seek happiness and even serve richly, but without compromising the freedom of other people. Because my freedom ends where your freedom begins, and vice versa. So my freedom does not imply the right to destroy climate, nature and the environment or other people's ability to live good lives. If we do not understand this and just continue to live as we have in the last 100 years, climate change will turn into regular climate disasters. The half a million Danes who today feel burned out on the job will become thousands of registered, worn-out citizens. That is why we must have empathy and responsibility back in our concept of freedom. That's why it's time to rethink our society. In the alternative, we want smaller states and much more communities. We want the state to set the framework for sustainable conversion. We have made the world's perhaps most ambitious climate laws with a goal of 70% reduction in CO2 but 70%. In fact, if we're gonna take our responsibilities on us, we're gonna be at the bottom of the line. The alternative believes that the target must be closer to 80%, and expects it to be really clear in 2025, where we need to evaluate the Climate Act and set milestones. It is necessary to raise the bar further if we are to have largely phased out CO2 And nap me about climate science at that time is not even firmer on the conclusions of the 1.5-degree UN report of 2018. It is very ambitious, but we are an ambitious country. We want the world's best schools, we want to be the world leader on IT, we want the world's best organic food production, and of course we want to be the world leader in climate. But once we politicians have set the framework, we are dependent on getting companies in. They must help to find the solutions needed to boost the green transition. From the state, we need the right means. We have to, for example. low green bonds, as they did in the Netherlands, where they raised 50 billion. kr. in one day to finance the green conversion. Last night we achieved a broad majority for the introduction of a CO2 A climate tax on goods and services, which emits a lot of CO2 Those taxes will bring us a lot of money, which we of course need to spend in the service of sustainable conversion. But whatever happens, the green transition will also be a business adventure, because there are jobs in the green transition, which is business in the green transition, which is entrepreneurship in the green transition, which is the source of opportunities for entrepreneurship and innovation directly out of the negotiations on climate action plans currently underway in the Ministry of Climate Affairs. There are, for example: great perspectives in power-to-x, where Danish researchers and companies have come a long way in converting power to hydrogen, and you can push them forward in front via support schemes and opportunities for testing and implementing solutions. But no matter how many opportunities there are for green growth and green jobs, in the alternative, we have a very clear limit. On the day we may have to choose between continued unconditional growth and climate, we choose climate. This is a debate we have in this Chamber at the moment. What if it takes a reduction in growth to achieve our goal of just 70% reduction in CO2 It is a question that every single party will ask itself, because we will not achieve the goal of the green transition if we are to continue with unconditional economic growth, to increase unconditional economic growth. We need to dampen the increase in global growth if we are to achieve the goal that the temperature should not rise by more than 1.5 degrees. This means that we cannot continue to replace our smartphones faster and faster, and that means that we cannot continue to increase our flight activity, that we will have to drive more together in our cars instead of driving separately, and that we will have to use more public transport and cut down on our meat consumption. We have to be honest about that. But the freedom of the alternative goes further. We also long to set society and the individual people free. We must set the municipalities free, we must set the public institutions free with the public employees, and we must set schools and education free, so that they themselves are allowed to fulfil their tasks more effectively in the light of the objectives that society sets together. In the alternative, we want the state to have their budgets available to the municipalities without earmarking and taximeter schemes. We trust the city councils and the many employees in municipalities and regions who work hard to create the best communities. We want to add the decisions to those people who actually have their hands on the dough. It should not be bureaucratic systems and standardised spreadsheets that determine how we live. We also have a committed civil society, fiery souls who are passionate about creating the best community, and we must give them room for that. In the alternative, we are particularly proud of the citizens' proposals that come into this Parliament, for example. The Climate Act, which was adopted. And last week we voted in favour of mourning leave for all parents who tragically lose a child under the age of 18. The Danes make good, relevant citizens' proposals, and we politicians can safely give citizens the freedom to make more decisions. In the alternative, therefore, we want more citizen democracy. Why can't residents on a villa road decide together the parking rules? Why should a case worker decide how to look for a job if I lose my job? In the alternative, we want to have much more participation and the opportunity as Danes to organise our lives and our society as we wish. It is now up to the political parties to take responsibility for setting the framework for our country, and it is we who will look back in 50 years and explain to our grandchildren and great-grandchildren why Denmark looks as it does in 2070. Did we take responsibility while we had the opportunity? Did we have the courage to make the necessary decisions? Did we have the courage to set ourselves and each other free and still be responsible for our actions? We hope so in the alternative. We long for more freedom. Finally, the Prime Minister asked us today to go out and spend a lot of money. I will take that in mind, and in this context, in the alternative, we have made the alternative offer paper for sustainable green rebooting. Here there are a lot of good ideas on how to go out and spend a lot of money a little sustainably, both in terms of food and drink, travel and transport, clothing and clothing, housing, experiences, art and other trinkets, i.e. good ideas on how to safely go out and spend a whole lot of money, because these are a lot of sustainable shopping sites. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622195142	Then there are a few questions. Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622195146	Thank you. We look forward to browsing the creative proposal. I agree with the longing for more freedom. I may not necessarily agree entirely that my freedom stops where yours starts. I sometimes think that giving freedom tends to become more when you do it together. I think I owe it to continue the discussion we had when the roles had been reversed a little earlier. For what we agreed yesterday was to make a green tax reform that would allow a CO2 and then we discussed this with whether, when the money is going back to citizens and businesses, it weakens the incentives. I really believe that, as Mr. Torsten Gejl needs to be comforted, at least in relation to our position, is that it is not a question of being compensated for his CO2 It is, after all, a question of the money not going into the treasury to finance welfare, but being spent and returned generally to citizens and businesses. So whoever pollutes a lot will experience less money if you do not change your lifestyle, and the company that goes ahead with its pollution will experience that it is becoming more expensive to produce. That is why it is not a question of compensating one to one, and that is why CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20200622195303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622195305	Well, what I do not understand is that if the polluter has to pay, that is to say the polluter gets the climate tax and has to pay it, the polluter gets it back into corporation tax. Then I think it sounds a little like you're burying the climate tax. That is why, in the alternative, we would like to use that revenue for green research, green businesses, green entrepreneurs and social compensation for the lowest incomes, which can of course be hit quite hard by climate taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622195335	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622195337	In fact, I do believe that all citizens can make green choices and should therefore be in the situation that they experience to put themselves better by making green choices rather than black choices, regardless of who they really are. However, in relation to the business situation, it is basically about what business development is that we get in Denmark. Do we support green businesses, companies that produce sustainable ones, and companies that, whatever they produce, reduce their pollution? After all, it also requires investment. It takes a very large amount of investment to convert production, and that is why it is important that we do not spend the money in the treasury on something where we are going to miss it. That is why we say that tax policy is actually easy enough: what you want more of, you have to tax less. And vice versa: We want less pollution, therefore up with the tax on it. But we do want companies that make profits, and that is why it is healthy enough to lower taxes on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622195425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622195426	Well, I hope that these climate taxes work so well that we get very little money into the box. Then this problem has been lifted. But the money that is now coming in we look forward to discussing with the Radicals how we can best use it for sustainable conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622195443	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622195445	Thank you for the floor. What a parliamentary year, also for the alternative. I think that, on behalf of the new citizens and on the basis of the negotiations we have had, it is after all Mrs Josephine Fock who has been involved in the negotiations that I should like to thank the Alternative for what we have seen as constructive cooperation. I think most people know that in many areas we have political differences, but we have actually experienced a very good and constructive dialogue and also good and constructive cooperation with Mrs Josephine Fock during the negotiations. So thank you for that. I would also like to thank the alternative for supporting our recent proposal to postpone the school start for children. I would like to hear about a third point, and that is perhaps one of the few points we have in common, but it is also a question of finding the places where we have common ground, namely our desire to put out the job centres, which are currently costing the sick and the weak around the system. These are job centres which create little more work than those employed there. Is it still the policy of the alternative and, if so, will it work together to achieve that objective?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622195559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622195600	Thank you so much for those words. We'd like to go that way. Whether to close down the job centres or not, I don't know. We think it might be a good idea to transform them into a place where, if you were available, you would really like to come to a place where you could get help with entrepreneurship and help to get on your feet if you were sick and help with psychologists. There could be plenty of small businesses where you might find work, and there could be advice on many things. The Job Centres, as they are today, seem to me to under-authorise the unemployed, so we would really like to be involved in discussing what the world's best job centre should look like. I think we should start by finding a new name.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622195642	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622195645	You can then take that down positively and constructively, or you can say that there may be a difference after all. But I choose to take it down positively and constructively, because there really are some people in this system who get stuck and who get whipped around the system for years. There are people who are in resource sequences and end up dying before they get an early retirement pension. In New Citizens we say that it should be only a health assessment whether you are too sick or too tired to work. Those who are temporarily outside the labour market will find another solution for them, but the sick and the run-down will have to get out of the job centres. Can this be backed up in the Alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622195725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622195727	Yeah, or they need help at the job centers to get well. At least we shouldn't think that work is the medicine. It is the case that if we closed the job centres now, we would save a lot of billions, but instead of the billions disappearing somewhere, I think they could be very well spent on getting people on their feet. And when people get on their feet, it's my experience that they choose to be active. Then they choose to join the community, then they choose to work as much as they can.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622195801	Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622195802	Thank you. Before I come to my real question, I will start in a completely different place, because a lot has actually happened since we opened this session in the Folketing. The Liberal Alliance is among other things. came in front of the alternative in the queue in here, and I know about the mutiny in my own camp. It's not necessarily very pleasant, so I'm actually just gonna start by hearing how Mr. Torsten Gejl actually has it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622195826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622195827	Thank you so much for that question. We're of good courage. Actually, it turns out it's to be connected. Josephine Fock and I met here in the hall a few days ago and hug each other and said to each other: It's actually just before it starts to be fun again. I don't mean funny as in comical, but I think we're starting to feel the joy of work again. It is also because we think that the government and ministers are very, very positive and helpful to us and give us a little extra leash. The Parliament's Legal Secretariat is very, very service minded. So we are being helped in every way to act as a party, and that means that we can even have political victories. And I certainly have something to tell my grandchildren, and that is that we were so much involved in securing CO2 by 2030. All we have to do now is succeed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622195916	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622195917	I'm actually really glad to hear that. I can also hear the sincerity of what the rapporteur says. So it's nice. But that also means, of course, that I can throw off my velvet gloves and go to the political debate, because somewhere this corona crisis shows, of course, that the dream society of the alternative with less consumption and all these things is not something people want. People have missed flying, traveling, consuming and reviving capitalist society. Isn't that what people like? Have you been hungry for this crisis? Is it not really a sign that if the dream society of the Alternative were to be implemented, very few people would want to take part in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622195953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622195955	I think we have some different friends. A lot of the people I've been talking to have been incredibly happy to be with their kids, they've been happy to go in nature, they've been happy to do a whole lot of things that they haven't done really, really long. Some have also been lonely, and some also need to get back into the labour market. We know that there are of course many bad experiences, but I have made such a facebook post where I wanted to hear about people's good experiences, and I have never had so many comments. So my feeling is that we may have had time for reflection and found out that when we work as hard as we do, we might get too far away from some of what really matters to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622200033	Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622200036	Thank you. I would also like to join with New Citizens in thanking them for their very constructive and good cooperation. I have mostly had something to do with the rapporteur in the social field, and that is also what I would like to do a little about. When we talk about CO2 I get a little concerned about this, too, about what it is you really had to use the taxes for. The rapporteur has asked that question repeatedly. That's why I get a little curious to hear what he's really thinking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622200120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622200121	Thank you so much for those words. And I can assure the rapporteur that it is very important for us to ensure that revenue from climate taxes also goes to social compensation, as climate taxes can become a very, very expensive pleasure for the lowest-paid, lowest-income incomes. In addition, we want to keep the green money in the green business. We can do that in many ways. We believe that green research is extremely important. We believe that green entrepreneurship is incredibly important, not least in the context of the climate legislation being made. Every time we make a new deal in the Ministry of Climate... now we haven't done so many things... I'm thinking: I wish I was still an entrepreneur, because there are some exciting, exciting things to do here. Green companies, I think, could also be rewarded in some way if you can find a system that can handle it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622200221	Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622200223	As a follow-up question, I would like to return to this with the good life. There are very many children around Denmark who experience not being a part of the good life; who grow up in an uncertainty with adults who are not clear if they are present at all. How does the rapporteur think that we can help to support the fact that all children in Denmark can help grow in and grow up in good life?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622200251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622200253	We can do that by thinking very well as parents. Well, we only have that time once, and all of a sudden it's gone. So we can all do something about that, that is, our institutions and our schools. However, it is clear that there are also some children who have particularly poor conditions, that is to say some particularly vulnerable children, and here we think it is extremely important that we do a whole-scale back-up in relation to the family and try to keep the children in the family. We have noticed the Herning model and other models where extra money has been given to case managers, and it actually turns out that it creates major social investment and derived savings.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622200333	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622200335	Since the rapporteur mentioned a great many areas where we need to take the lead, I would like to ask how the rapporteur will ensure that there will be the upgrading necessary to enable it to be done. Everyone in production needs to gain new knowledge. How will the rapporteur ensure that there is continuous continuing training, continuing training and retraining in relation to the people in production, and how will the rapporteur ensure that those who have temporarily left production are given the opportunity to train as much as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622200412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622200414	Well, now we are such a strange place in society where we have the opportunity to do things in a slightly different way. There are a lot of people who are now facing a new challenge because they have to go to training or training. And there I would actually think it would be wise to try with employers, but also with the trade union movement, to find out where the next bottlenecks are, where the future growth industries are, where people are needed, and then try to qualify people especially for those areas where there is a job to get, so that the work comes as a carrot and there is actually work at the end. It is not always possible, and I am not saying that we can only qualify for work. In addition, one could also be better at documenting the learning that a lot of people get in the informal learning market, so that they actually have something to show off, instead of learning sometimes crumbling between their fingers because there is not really a word on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622200514	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622200515	I would like to clarify my question very specifically, because we are now entering a situation where there are already many, in other words more than 100 000, who are unemployed, and we are absolutely convinced that that figure will grow dramatically in the coming autumn. How do we ensure that the time that passes before those people get jobs again can be used constructively so that they can use it to acquire new knowledge? Although a training agreement with a little more training has just been concluded, there are still a great many barriers to how to train during unemployment, including rules on what, among other things, is. are formulated as soon as possible in jobs. But sometimes, as soon as possible, in jobs are actually through some education. How will the rapporteur ensure that this is not the norm?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622200609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622200610	Well, if the rapporteur thinks that we will help to help find additional means for it, then the answer will be yes. This is the best investment we can make. It's always gonna pay off. It is amu, it is vuc, it is all the private players who, if they are serious and not just keep them available for as long as possible, can also come into play. So for me it is a myriad of small and large educational actors that we have, both in the public and private education market and which I would like to see started.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622200642	There are no more questions. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the series of rapporteurs. We go to our Greenlandic friends and the first is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622200703	Thank you very much. What a year. That is perhaps the sentence that has been used most today, and I would like to put myself in the slipstream and also start with that sentence, and it is not only because of corona when it comes to Greenland. But rarely has the interest in Greenland and the Arctic been as great as it is now. This is not least due to the United States. The American buy offer in August, the financial aid package and the new consulate in Nuuk kickstarted a debate which in many ways came to draw the parliamentary year. In the best sense it is involved in the work that we are also doing right now in relation to the kingdom's Arctic strategy, and American interest turned into a wakeup call that forced us to look at the kingdom community and consider: Is there anything we can do better? The short answer is yes. The challenges are almost queuing, and this is not exactly because the initiatives are coming forward; on the contrary. The division of competences between Denmark and Greenland has gradually developed into a bit of a chair game, where no one dares to sit first. Greenland is waiting for Denmark, and Denmark is waiting for Greenland, and in the meantime nothing is happening. Therefore, it is also significant that the last car inspection that was made in Greenland is almost 20 years ago. We also see that the Kingdom's oldest rescue helicopter is in Kangerlussuaq in Greenland. The police's radio communication equipment is now so old that it creates doubts about safety, and in the same way much of the legislation in relation to Greenland is also obsolete. A year ago, the Prime Minister said that Greenland should have more foreign policy influence. But what happened? Greenland has been allowed to accompany Danish ministers to some of the meetings abroad, but not all. There is talk of creating secure channels of communication, which one should probably have thought of earlier, and we are constantly discussing: where are the limits? When can Greenland act on its own behalf, and when should Denmark enter? There is such a need for clarification. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has recently expressed a very positive opinion on taking concrete action, and we would like to sign for this by the IA. We believe that a clear framework is needed in terms of what is a foreign and security policy and what is a repatriated area. Because there should be no doubt that Greenland wants a stronger voice and a decisive word when it comes to international relations. We want to trade with several countries, we want to strengthen our economy, and here the Kingdom community must not be a straitjacket. Despite the major challenges, there are also many good results to be enjoyed, and some ministries have surprised really positively, and IA would like to praise, among others. The Secretary of Defense for close involvement and for giving priority to Greenland, for this is so much needed. When Russian fighters and submarines and new bases from Russia show up, it worries us in Greenland, and we believe that this is the wrong way to go. If that is the way we go in the Arctic, then it means that we get into a negative spiral, not only in the kingdom, but in all the Arctic countries. Misunderstandings and lack of confidence can, at worst, trigger a conflict that none of us really want, which is why we also need to be prepared. For example: We know that there is an urgent need to strengthen surveillance capacity, but we also believe that there is a need to look at the recent proposal made by DIIS to strengthen cooperation and dialogue and create a security policy forum when it comes to the security policy situation in the Arctic. The defence in Greenland also solves some important tasks. First of all, there is Search and Rescue, and precisely because we have the oldest helicopter in the Kingdom, there is also a need for a serious upgrade. The number of SAR operations is increasing in these years, and with Naala Suisut's desire for increased tourism and the overall increase in shipping traffic due to climate change, the need for a modern rescue response will only increase. That is why we in the IA welcome the fact that the government has chosen to extend cooperation with Air Greenland, but let us make a good deal when we get an extension of the current SAR response. Almost a year ago, the Danish Parliament set aside 80 million. kr. children subjected to sexual assault in Greenland. It was a dispute with the previous division of competences between Greenland and Denmark, and some thought that it was to roll back self-government. However, there are many of us who are happy that the government showed the goodwill and we believe that the children finally got the help they should have. Now we see that the efforts have not yet been set in motion. We know that the corona has put a great deal on standby, including the apology to the experimental children, and it annoys us that there has been bureaucracy in that help, and so we would just encourage the government by saying: we need your help, the work must and must start, we are still standing away in an acute situation where children are left behind every day. Fortunately, the government replied promptly and without hesitation when the problem became known, and we are grateful to you too. Thank you so much. We would really like the funds to be translated into concrete action so that we do not lose sight of the children. In the area of justice, we have achieved a historic victory this year, and we have secured better salaries for police and asylum officers thanks a thousand to the government for that. Their pay relationship is now significantly improved and closer to their Danish colleagues. Let us now take the final steps so that we can really talk about equal pay for equal work within the Kingdom community. In the same vein, we also believe that it is important to remember that the police in Greenland must have the necessary tools to carry out their work properly. For some years now it has been the case that the police have had an outdated radio communications equipment which means that if you lie at the bottom of the pile in a fight, you cannot call for help. Therefore, there are some acute and pressured situations where there is no possibility of properly communicating with each other, which makes it dangerous both for the officers and for the people, and we therefore strongly call for a transitional solution to be found, so that a more permanent solution can be found in this area. Inuit Ataqatigiit recognises that 2020 has been a very special year. The Corona crisis has caused concern in Greenland and Denmark, and in Greenland we have fortunately escaped graciously, but the crisis shows how vulnerable the Greenlandic health system really is. We also know that there are parties in Greenland that have expressed the wish for help from Denmark, but right now we are looking forward to the recommendations of the Greenland Health Commission in relation to cooperation between Greenland and Denmark. We look forward to the coming parliamentary year and we choose to look forward. We also choose to be cautiously optimistic about the years to come, and we hope that together we will be able to achieve more results and together lift the responsibilities in Greenland, which are still the responsibility of the Folketing. We would like to thank all the parties here in the Danish Parliament for the good cooperation, both for commitment and understanding, when we raise the issues that we think are important in Greenland. We think this is an important and positive step towards a positive change. We believe that dialogue helps to build bridges, perhaps especially when it comes to such a difficult size as the Kingdom community sometimes is. Thank you very much for the year that has passed and thank you very much for the good cooperation. Qujanarujussuaq.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622201558	Thank you very much for the rapporteur's speech. There are some brief comments. Also congratulations on a national day yesterday to our Greenlandic friends. The first to make a brief comment is Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622201609	I would also like to sign and thank you for your cooperation. It is both challenging and exciting to have to deal with the Arctic and Greenland in these years, and I think we learn a lot from the fact that we have two colleagues in the Folketing who are as committed as they are. Thank you. I share the rapporteur's fear that there will be a build-up in the Arctic, and if I understood what was said correctly, I also share the call for Denmark and, for that matter, the whole of the Nordic region to do what they can to avoid the build-up and the rivalry that is on the way. I will then just ask a small question about the USID's money for Greenland I do not call it support, because I do not see it as support. Can the rapporteur say a little more about what that money is going to do? It looks as if the United States is saying: now we are granting 82 million. kr. to hire some American experts to learn more about how to get more out of the Arctic and Greenland first and foremost. I have not been able to see where they can be placed in order to benefit the Greenlanders. Now it doesn't look like Trump to pursue this kind of policy for the benefit of Greenland, nor does he do it for the benefit of the United States.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622201724	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622201724-2	Thank you very much. I would also like to sign for the good cooperation with Enhedslisten. I think it should be seen in a slightly larger perspective, because a majority in Greenland was actually quite clear that Greenland is Greenlandic, and the Prime Minister emphasized that too. We do not want to be part of the United States, we want to remain in the Kingdom community. I think that's what we can take with us. I think that it is mainly advice to which the money should go. It is American consultants who have to do some work and advise on what they think are their areas of expertise, such as: tourism, raw materials and other things. And there, too, many of us in Greenland want to be a little critical when it comes to the fact that the United States is a completely different country, which is based on very different values than we are in Greenland, so the way you like. drive mining in the United States is not necessarily something that will work well in Greenland. So there is also a critical mass in Greenlandic society and in Greenlandic politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622201829	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622201830	Thank you for your answer. There's another question that's been nagging me a little bit. Now we have had five or six meetings, conferences and hearings, etc. on the Arctic in just the last month, and I think that makes you smarter, but there was a debate in this Chamber last week in which Mr. Søren Espersen from the Danish People's Party, when I mentioned that we should now remember the exposed children, said: Well that problem has been solved • Why do you mention a problem that has been solved? Because if Greenland and Denmark can solve the big problem in a year, it is impressive.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622201915	Here you go, Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622201916	The short answer is that we are at the beginning. There is a great deal to be done, and these are quite violent figures. I also choose to be optimistic and believe that it actually makes a difference, and I am deeply grateful. I stood here at the opening debate and chose not to talk about the United States, but actually to talk about the children, because I really think it is something that it is amazing that we have not solved in Greenland in the past. I think there are a lot of things that could be done in this area, but speaking time is not really enough to give a more comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622201949	Thank you. The next one is sir. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622201950	It is easy to understand Greenland's desire for increased economic development as one of the stepping stones on the road to more autonomy. I would like to know if Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen could put a little more words on it and say how Inuit Ataqatigiit, as an environmental police, sees the balance between mining and protecting the vulnerable nature, including a brief assessment of how things stand with this very narrow majority decision that was taken in Greenland in relation to breaking uranium at the Kvanefjelde, and about the prospects for drilling for oil, which without any reasonable doubt will not hit the vulnerable nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622202031	Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622202032	Thank you very much. I would also like to thank the SF for the good cooperation during the parliamentary year that has passed. After all, the majority still wants uranium extraction in Narsaq in South Greenland at the Kvanefjeldet, and we are very concerned about this by the IA. We are doing what we can to show our opposition, and we believe that there should be a focus on sustainable development, economic development. This also applies to tourism. If we look at Iceland, it has really been a tourist development which has boomed violently and which has also had some consequences, among others. for nature. So we believe that this balance between the environment and nature, while guaranteeing some money, is important. Many people say that Greenland has invented this concept of sustainability, because we live in nature and nature and around nature. We also need to think long-term so that we do not fish all the fish. But there are many different political positions in Greenland on this issue, and unfortunately there is a majority who would like uranium extraction in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622202142	Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622202143	After all, the head of the American consulate in Nuuk, Sung Choi, travels the midnight sun black in Greenland to all places to promote his own or American or at least very friendly interests and combined with making such a cosy corner with sofas and reading opportunities and the American flag at the university, it all seems very friendly and welcoming. What, however, does Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen think could be behind this unusual new infatuation in Greenland from the American side? Could there be other motives than such purely sincere infatuation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622202217	Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622202219	I think it is important not to be naive in this situation, and I also think that it can be about military interest in Greenland. I am also concerned that Greenland will become such a stepping stone, if you can put it that way, in relation to Russia, but also to the rest of the world, if there is to be an armament. So I think it's important to pay attention. We recognise that Naala Suisut has agreed to this agreement and we are also aware of both Russia and China. One should remember that the Chinese have invested money in three different raw materials projects in Greenland, so they are not quite out of Greenland yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622202254	Thank you. The next person who has asked for a brief comment is Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622202257	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech and for your never failing commitment. It's really nice. I would like to ask a few questions about some of what Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen said about Search and Rescue or the SAR preparedness, which is about to be put out to tender now, where new contracts are to be made. After all, we all know from many of the séances that Mr. Christian Juhl has also participated in the fact that there will be some major tasks in the years to come. There is more activity in the area and we need some other and more capabilities compared to Search and Rescue. It is also something that is very much focused on by Greenlandic politicians. So I would like to know whether Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen can elaborate a little more on what she thinks about new capacities before you can meet the expectations of the people of Greenland both for proper preparedness and for the challenges that we face, because there is more activity in the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622202402	Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622202403	In Narsarsuaq in South Greenland, it is the case that you have a readiness from 1 p.m. 8:00 a.m. until 8:00 a.m. 16:00, then there is an accident 16:05 in the afternoon, which means that there is no preparedness, or that there is certainly a need for some goodwill on the part of Air Greenland. We would really like to look at the tender price that has been set up a little critically, because we know that many of those who offered the job last time have offered twice as much in the price they want to give to serve this preparedness. There is such a need for an upgrade in relation to some newer helicopters, and we have also pointed out that there should also be medical care. And if you compare the Greenlandic preparedness with the Danish, I think you will really see that there is a very large difference in the service you can provide. And we see that there are more and more of these accidents, and we know that if you fall into the water in Greenland, you won't survive very long at least in winter. So we're very worried.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622202508	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622202510	Thank you. I look forward to further discussing with the Minister how we can get to the goal or so close to the goal of these priorities. Then I would like to hear from the rapporteur what process she looks forward to and whether it is something in which the rapporteur has been involved in a dialogue with the Minister on how we can resolve this in the right way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622202540	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622202541	Thank you very much for the question. We need to have a consultation that several parties have asked for, where we're going to try to find a head and a tail in this. This is something that we in Greenland have been concerned with for many years. But some of what I may have learned in the Danish Parliament is the thing about working with some people who have different opinions than you do. I just wish that much more was done in Greenland, because then I think we would reach much, much longer than the many tasks that lie. So that is one of the things to say about the terms of democracy, which I have certainly been very pleased with in relation to the work of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622202620	Thank you. The next one I shall give the floor to is Mr Spencer. Rasmus Nordqvist from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622202624	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for a very good cooperation and, above all, a great battle for Greenlandic children. What I would like to ask is something we have discussed before. These are two things: one is the climate and the other is a modern kingdom community, a modern cooperation. Because you can say that one thing is to talk about what has been taken home and not repatriated, something else is, and I am sometimes concerned about how we move on. And an agenda that we should be able to work together on Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark as equal countries in a kingdom community is precisely the climate and the effort to be made for climate, environment and biodiversity. Is this something in which the rapporteur sees some perspectives, in other words to start with a few issues which are so much needed in the Arctic that there is also a strong presence on a global scale?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622202719	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622202719-2	Thank you for the question. It is the case that Greenland almost emits twice as much as it does in Denmark. That's kind of scary numbers. That's one of them. because of the transport. So, you get really, very much food sent to Greenland for general consumption. So there's really a need to think differently. I think we should look at increased self-sufficiency. Could you turn up the prices of imported meat, for example?? I heard at one point that Greenland is the place where you eat the most pork. I find this a little remarkable when we have so much good meat in Greenland and have the opportunity to go and catch reindeer ourselves, for example. So there is certainly a need for action, but efforts must first and foremost come from Greenland. There should be no doubt that, as a starting point, I think it is Greenlandic initiatives that should come, even when we are talking about these 32 areas, and Greenland has also slept per hour for many, many years when we look at the tasks that are just like there. So this equivalence is about both sides acting differently. So Denmark may need to give a little more space, and Greenland needs to take some more initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622202830	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622202830-2	When I ask about this, it's also a little in the light of what Mr. Christian Juhl mentioned whether this financial investment from the American side, where you can get worried, when you hear what these are for some areas, which also have an impact on the environment, climate and biodiversity, is that this is the right place to look at when you look at the US track record in relation to environmental efforts. Then it may not be the right place to look at how to develop a collaboration. Would that not be one of the things that we could actually begin to look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622202908	Here you go, Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622202909	Thank you very much for the question. It is our point that it was a wake-up call, and the question is whether we have completely awakened and taken up the tasks, or whether we are actually just pointing a little finger at the fact that the Americans got so much attention for poor 83 million. kr. At least that's what I'm hearing. So the question is whether we should not look inwards here in the Folketing and see if there are any initiatives we could jointly take. I also believe that there is a huge task in relation to Greenlanders in Denmark, where there are also people who experience a form of racism, which I know has also been a theme today. Could we with knowledge and dialogue help build a bridge and have these prejudices broken down?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622202953	Thank you for that, and we shall welcome Mr. Kasper Roug of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622202959	Thank you. And thank the rapporteur for very good cooperation. And of course also thank you for the praises to the government and also for the improvements that the rapporteur has made. I really think it is a little important to recognise that, too, I have heard the rapporteur mention that a great deal has actually happened in this year when the government has been sitting, if you see it over time. There's been a lot going on in our relationship. And I actually think it is important that we take note of this, and hopefully the rapporteur also agrees that we should listen and that we should strengthen our relationship and our cooperation. After all, the rapporteur has already mentioned several good things that we have complied with, among other things. at the request of the rapporteur. We have already looked at the asylum officers, and we have also met a demand from the Greenland Government on social matters, among other things. That is why I hope that the rapporteur will also share this view of stronger cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622203107	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622203108	Thank you for your comments. Since 2:00 a.m. 3 we have actually been counting on it and we have achieved results for about 175 million. kr., in particular in the fields of justice, defence and social affairs. So it's actually relatively good, you might say. But we are here because we have a job to do, so yes, there are still a lot of things we can do, for example. Car vision, that was more than 20 years ago. That is something I often hear when there are some good moves: yes, but there really are some things that have not been lifted. And that's not just because of this government, which might also have one year to settle down in the chair, and then there was corona. However, I have some expectations, perhaps particularly in the field of foreign policy, that there will be more concrete initiatives, and I would very much like to see closer cooperation. It could be in the field of business. There are two things that are crucial to Greenland's economy, and that is business development and education.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622203213	Thank you. Sir. Kasper Roug, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622203214	Thank you. Well, I think the government has already proved that it is not afraid of great expectations, that is clear. But I also hope that the rapporteur would also like to sign for the good news that has also been out and that, in this way, he will reach out to Greenland and that, of course, he will actually call for us to have a stronger kingdom community. And, of course, I hope that the rapporteur will also be able to sign this evening.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622203240	Here you go, Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622203242	I would very much like to sign for that, and I think I did the same in the speech. What is important is that we not only have good messages, but that we also have good deeds, and that is where we stand. And as I said, I am cautiously optimistic. I think it's possible. I think we can also do a little better in the coming years, not least in cooperation. We would very much like to offer ideas, and whenever I come up with a challenge, I would very much like to point out a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622203310	Thank you. The last person to sign up for a brief remark to the IA party is Mr. Morten Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622203314	I would like to return to the discussion that was going on in which Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen explained that there is somehow a connection between the United States seeing an opportunity to come in with a package of aid and the absence of a sufficiently close partnership between Denmark and Greenland. For it is obvious that Greenland will have an increasing geopolitical importance, a major strategic importance, and that interest will be heightened, and that we therefore have an interest in strengthening the partnership together and not leaving a vacuum where we can then react in outrage at aid packages or whatever it is. There is, of course, the question: what should be the vessel for the joint partnership? Is it an Arctic strategy negotiated here in the Folketing, or how can we jointly achieve it that we are not so vulnerable that we all get lost because an American ambassador writes a clumsy chronicle?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622203414	Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622203416	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, for your cooperation with Radicals, who are also committed to the Arctic issue. It is important to play several keys, and I think that there is a task at home in Greenland with these 32-33 areas that you have to solve at home in Greenland. We would very much like to invite you to this debate. It is a very clear task for us here in the Danish Parliament. Then there is a task that is about Greenlanders in Denmark, and perhaps that is the one we do not really talk about very much. It's kind of a sad number when you look at how many Greenlanders there are in work. It's only about a third. After all, there has been this whole demonstration about Black Lives Matter, and I know that there are a lot of Greenlanders who sympathise with it, because there are also many who experience some form of discrimination or racism. And there I just think that a constructive approach to it, knowledge and dialogue will help build a bridge. I think it is extremely important that we should, for example, be able to do so. more films about Greenland; I think it is important that you get more knowledge in the Danish primary and secondary schools about Greenland need • and like about modern Greenland and not just about the historical.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622203525	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622203525-2	I think that is enormously perspectiveful, because in reality it is also one of the things that is much easier to do, because here in the Folketing we can act ourselves in close cooperation and get some of these things started. An opportunity that could be considered was also a closer cooperation between Greenlandic politicians in Greenland and us Danish parliamentarians in order to perhaps get a little closer to each other there too, so that it is not only at government level, but also there, in order to connect us a little closer to each other and in this way also create the basis for better cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622203604	Here you go, Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622203604-2	Thank you very much. I know that a number of Members of this House have expressed this, and so I also saw that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was quite positive when we had the discussion on the Arctic strategy of the Kingdom. We simply need to have a forum where, it could be once a year or every six months, depending on what can be done, we could meet and have these exchanges and like feel each other, if you can put it that way. I believe that, in order to have a strong external voice for the Kingdom community, there is also a need for internal dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622203638	Thank you to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA. There are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome the other Greenlandic party, Siumut, and welcome Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622203651	Thank you for the floor. Greenland and Denmark's • our contemporary history. Today someone ended a speech with a quote, which is why I think it is only right to start my speech with a Greenlandic quote by a poet and politician, Hans Lynge. It goes as follows: "Silarluttumi seqinnerrsoq maqaaasigisarparput, imaanngitsoq nuippat alarnagu isigiinnassallugu. ▪ Which is translated into Danish: Although we miss the sun when it is bad weather, we should not keep staring at it constantly when the sun finally shines. I think that when I look back at the year that has passed, it is true that much has happened, but I also think that together with the government and the Folketing we have thus achieved historical initiatives for Greenland. This year it became a parliamentary year that will be remembered in the history books. I believe that, and here I am not just talking about President Trump's purchase offer of Greenland, nor am I just talking about the covid-19 situation we had in a situation where, thanks to an effective health system both in Denmark and Greenland with timely political decisions so far, we have avoided a major health disaster. That is why I think it is only right that both our health services and the many people who have stood in their hands should be very grateful for the cooperation, willpower and courage they have shown in a difficult time we have gone through. On the other hand, I would like us to bear in mind what we, together with the government, have also achieved from these historical results. That is in relation to the wage differences we have tried to achieve. That is the historically good cooperation in foreign policy. I have been to Greenland during the corona closure, and then I could also feel talking a lot with politicians who are no longer politicians, and current ministers and others that have never Greenland and Greenlandic politicians felt so involved in their own foreign policy. And through the government and the Folketing we have also secured assistance for particularly vulnerable children and young people in Greenland, even if it is not your responsibility as such. It's historic. But I would also like to come back to the question debate that was here on Thursday, because then we also talked about the powers of self-government to conclude agreements with other countries. All parties agreed on a proposal for adoption based on equality and trust and mutual respect. All parties in the Folketing were in agreement, but there were still some parties who, during the same debate, expressed the view that anyone who actually had the last thing to say about foreign policy is Denmark. Should it not be a matter of course that Greenland is still included in the global and major political world in matters that actually concern Greenland? Yes, these are historical examples, but this just became another example of: Well, will it be so different when it becomes another government? Is that really what defines our community? After very, very many years, the discussion on wages has not come true, and we need to intervene politically in order to get it through. Well, isn't that a basic principle of equality? Why does this have to be historic? Experiment children are also a sign of reconciliation and a desire for reconciliation. Although we have a lot of things happening now, including with Corona and I understand very well that there are many things that unfortunately do not finish on time. I also think that reconciliation is important to remember. Experiment children are no longer children. On the contrary, they are adults and, unfortunately, most of them are no longer here. So, yes, we have produced historically good results in this parliamentary year, but I also think that the reality is: should we just think about, and go back and just notice that these historical We are creating this inequality inside our system that we have created inside this floor, and unfortunately it is still felt in some way today, and I am still thinking about it, because I think we've worked our asses out of our pants. That fg. President We speak with respect). I'm sorry, I didn't mean to. But I have noticed that it comes from both Greenlandic members. We work for our country, yet it is as if it is not enough. It's historic, but it's not enough. Is it because of our system, is it because of the way we have put the legislation together? What is it? I think it's time we also put out our hand and ask if we can't do this any better. We shouldn't fight so hard to achieve basic things. Equal pay, equal pay for equal work, we should not have to fight so hard to ensure that responsibilities that have been under the Danish Government for so many years are just at an OK level. As a young politician, I would say that I became a politician because I wanted to dream of a better Greenland. I wanted to fantasize that my country was the best thing for this and the smartest thing for that, but instead I have to fight to achieve something that's just okay. We live in a community of law, and Greenland requires legal certainty. This is one of our responsibilities in this Chamber, and I also think it is important to point out that, as long as we are subject to the same democratic bodies, which are also bound in the constitution, we will therefore have to create the same legal certainty for people. After all, we are still Danish citizens from Greenland today. I would like to thank you for the cooperation we have had this year, but I would also like to hope that we can look back a little and think that we can do better. I believe that we have a shared responsibility for human rights being in order to have a society in which people should not only survive but also have the opportunity to dream. I hope that we can look at this system, because if we are to modernise and adapt together and not just achieve the basic goal, there is clearly something that needs to be improved, because it is not time for us to commit ourselves to a little bigger by 2020 by perhaps adapting the level to the present, no matter where in the kingdom it is. I can't wait for us to sit together and discuss these things more closely, because I feel I need that, and I can feel that the first year has been spent on me doing everything I could to understand why you didn't understand. But now it is also time for us to sit together for coffee meetings and other things, and then maybe we can try to fix these structural problems, because this is not going to change as things stand now. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622204635	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are some brief comments. The first one's for sir. Karsten Hønge from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622204641	China has shown a great appetite for Greenland several times, from the desire to buy Grønnedal to willingness not only to build but also to finance the new airports. How does Siumut view the desire for Chinese not only investment but also funding? Are they as welcome as the Americans, or have Siumut reservations, concerns in this regard?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622204710	Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622204711	Thank you very much for the question. In Siumut, we believe that the most important thing is to carry out feasibility studies, and that is important, regardless of which country we are talking about. And as far as I know, Denmark also has a very good cooperation in many areas with China, even though there are very many areas in which people disagree with China. In English, that's what they call due diligence, isn't it? You just have to be absolutely sure what it is you're going to do. I think it is important that we do it instead of just excluding countries because of their reputation, because if anyone knows about being convicted without having had a talk with them, it is of course us from Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622204802	Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622204802-2	I understood that not only investment, but also funding is welcome in Greenland. Does it also apply to Russian money, that is to say Russian wishes to invest and finance in Greenland? Specifically, what is Siumut's position if China wants to set up a consulate in Nuuk?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622204822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622204822-2	So, first of all, I think it is important to realise that it is not so much about which country. Of course we have to think about it, of course it has its meaning, but we should not just say that just because it is the United States or China or Russia we can do it. It's important that we just talk about how we get this done, and that's what we have to do. How is this to be done? Yeah, we can talk about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622204854	The next person who has asked for a brief comment is Mr. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622204856	Thank you so much. And thank you for your speech, and thank you for your cooperation, because now we have known Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen for a number of years now, and I also think we are getting to know Siumut's representative more and more, and I am happy about that; we will also have some exchanges of views along the way. I would like to start by saying that I fully agree with Siumut's rapporteur on experimental children, and I would like to say to the Prime Minister, no matter where she is, she is right here, yes, and thank you very much for the fact that we did the job with the godhavn boys. Godhavn is not the name of the Greenlandic city, yes, it may be, but it is also the name of an orphanage in Denmark. We owe it to us here in the coming year, if we do not have a new corona crisis, to solve this problem with the experimental children, both because there are books, reports, films and other documentation which make waiting unnecessary, and that is why I fully agree, and there is a direct call to the Prime Minister: let us try to find a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622205007	Thank you. Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622205008	Thank you very much, and also thank you to the Enhedslisten for their cooperation. I am delighted to get to know the Danish Parliament more, not only the individual parties, but also the individual people, because although we have a great many differences in everyday life, as I also note, I also note that there is a great interest in learning more, and I am delighted about that. The children of experiments are also a subject close to my heart, which is why I think it is important that we start to see this as something we need to look at in a greater perspective, because it is essentially about reconciliation. It is also about a desire on the part of Greenland to say: let us move on, but we need a helping hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622205106	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622205107	Thank you. So to the a little more controversial issue, and it is about what is in the underground in Greenland. There are others who say that the Americans are coming to Greenland now and have experts with them because they are very interested in the underground, and they are interested in rare metals, but they are particularly interested in uranium. What is Siumut and the rapporteur's position on this, and is it something that the Greenlanders want to get under control, or is it okay that it is the Americans who will get under control if that happens?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622205142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622205142-2	Thank you. In Greenland, we think that the most important thing is that it is Greenland that has it under control, and I also think that is very important to point that out here. My opinion is that it is the people first and whatever we are talking about, whatever business it is, and especially when it comes to things like raw materials, you really have to do your research, and that is the most important thing for us in this aspect.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622205218	Thank you. The next person to speak is the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Gundelach. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622205221	Thank you very much for your speech, and thank you very much for your cooperation on a daily basis. I would like to ask the same question that I asked Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, namely whether what is at stake here is the forthcoming Search and Rescue offer, or SAR offer, that is, this SAR contract. How does Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam view this, and what does she think, is that this new contract, this new invitation to tender, must contain in order to meet the increased commitments, the increased activity and a proper level of service in the area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622205302	Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622205303	Thank you very much. This is one of the areas on which I have had a meeting with both Air Greenland and the Minister for Defence. And here I think the most important thing was to listen to the experts in Air Greenland, because they are the ones who know how to do it best, both in relation to the bad weather, but also in relation to the crew members they have. It has also been an important priority on the part of Air Greenland that local crew members are also used, but also that equipment can be ready for use at any time when you need Search and Rescue. I think that is the most important thing to look at. I don't think it's my role as a politician to dictate everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622205359	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622205401	Thank you for your answer. As I understand it, Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam is comfortable with the process of involving the Greenland Committee and also confident that we are hitting a level of service that is satisfied with in Greenland. After all, we have had a number of politicians, including Greenland, who have been quite concerned about the current situation, and therefore it is important to me that we have that dialogue and also come into depth with this matter, so we are sure that we will find the right solutions. But I am reassured if Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam has had that dialogue with the Minister for Defence and is confident that there will be a thorough process.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622205441	Here you go, Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622205442	I'd say I'm as safe as you can be. But you can also say that you will always have to investigate more to stay up to date. And that is where I think our good cooperation in the Greenland Committee will play a major role.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622205500	Thank you. The last person to sign in is Mr. Knox. Kasper Roug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622205502	Thank you to the rapporteur for a very good speech, and thank you very much for the practical cooperation as well. I think it is a pleasure to cooperate with the rapporteur. I am pleased that the rapporteur also recognises that there have been some historical steps and that one feels so involved in the cooperation between Denmark and Greenland. I'm really glad to hear that. I would also like to look a little towards the future with the rapporteur and that perhaps the rapporteur could come up with a little bit about how she thinks we can create a stronger, what to call it, marriage, a stronger community, between Denmark and Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622205546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622205547	Thank you very much for your question and thank you for your cooperation. Here, too, I think it is important to point out that we must at least have strong legislation that means that, regardless of where you live in the realm, regardless of ethnicity, and whatever happens, we have something that protects the population from discrimination, among other things. what is the level of pay or pay terms, or when we talk about involving people. What I can be concerned about is whether one sees greater involvement, even when it comes to foreign policy matters, only means that it is because there is a particular government that allows us to sit at the table more when it comes to Greenland, or whether we should have something more firm that means that perhaps even Denmark will also have to surrender some of its sovereignty in order to be part of a larger kingdom community, which we can all be part of equally.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622205655	Thank you. Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622205657	Thank you very much. I really think it is very well said by the rapporteur that she has spent a great deal of time trying to actually understand why we did not understand. But I would also like to hope that I can get the rapporteur to confirm that, in order for us to come forward as a community, in order for us to come forward and strengthen each other, Greenland and Denmark, we must of course also move together, and we must work together more closely. I hope the rapporteur will confirm this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622205725	Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622205727	Thank you for the question. It is also the case that, as far as I can look at almost all Greenlandic politicians who have stood here, that is exactly what has been asked for. I just think that we need to think systematically about what kind of society we live in in order to understand why Greenland has acted as they have done. When you feel that you have sought out fellowship but have not received it back, you have acted as you have done, and it is not because you have not wanted to cooperate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622205804	Thank you. And thank you to Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam from Siumut. There are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome our Faroese friends, and that's sir. Edmund Joensen from Sambandsflockkurin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622205822	Thank you, Madam President. We hear it over and over again in these times: unity. Since the beginning of March, we have been united in the fight against corona. We've stood together by keeping our distance. Our closeness, despite physical distance, has proved that we, as people, nations have won the first battle in the fight against corona because we stand together. The same can be said of the Kingdom community. Together we stand stronger. It is the unity that has put us on the world map and made us a player in the great power rivalry that is currently taking place in the North Atlantic and the Arctic. But we should not take the cohesion for granted. We need to constantly develop and adapt our cohesions to suit the reality we find ourselves in. The world is changing. The other day, a student found a rare stone on the island of Fur. The stone is said to be 55 million years old and originates from a volcanic eruption that created both the Faroe Islands and East Greenland. And now a small part of the Faroe Islands is found in the middle of Limfjorden, on Fur, 1,200 km from the Faroe Islands. So it is not only historical and political ties that bind us together, but also geological ones. Without the community, Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland, each of us would be just insignificant lightweights compared to the others: the United States, Russia and China. Our room for manoeuvre in the great political game would be extremely limited. Together, we have the opportunity to assert our influence. But unity obliges. We must not take it for granted. The Kingdom has ended up at the centre of the Great Power Rival between Russia, China and the United States. We must not allow these heavyweights to play us off against each other. As Ambassador Peter Taksøe-Jensen has said, the greatest threat to Danish interests in the Arctic is not the Russians, but the prospect that the cohesion of the empire will be weakened. The low-voltage security policy, which has characterised the Arctic, is under pressure and therefore cohesion has never been more important. We must deal with the changed reality. But we also need to have the courage to look at the situation within the Kingdom community. We know that each of us has different interests when it comes to the North Atlantic and the Arctic. Despite the differences, however, we must maintain a common line vis-à-vis the great powers. The changed reality challenges the borders between the repatriated territories and foreign and security policy. The new reality we find ourselves in requires new thinking of the community. The government now calls telecommunications a critical infrastructure, which is also a security policy issue, a matter for real. I am therefore pleased that the government, together with the Faroe Islands' Home Rule Government, will ensure new legislation in this area, so that together we create a framework for how we navigate in these grey areas. The case of Huawei in autumn put the Faroe Islands on the world map. You could read about the case in international media such as The Telegraph and the New York Times. Here, too, in the Folketing, the matter filled a great deal. I am therefore surprised that the Prime Minister forgot the Faroe Islands when the borders were opened the other day. The new travel guide from the authorities tells all travellers that they can travel on holiday in Norway, Iceland and Germany. However, dear Prime Minister, as the Faroese tourist manager Guðrið Højgaard has pointed out, the Faroe Islands actually exist. It may seem innocent to forget the Faroe Islands in the travel guide, but it is of enormous importance to our small community. Tourism has become a major industry in the Faroe Islands and many tourists come from Denmark. So the little forgetting also costs in crowns and ears in the Faroe Islands. I hope that this will not be repeated in the context of the new Arctic strategy. In the new report from the Danish Institute for International Studies on the Arctic, it is also recommended that Denmark lays down and strives for greater involvement and information sharing between the kingdoms. I look forward to it. It is a clear desire on the part of the Faroese to extend the scope for foreign policy manoeuvres. The so-called DFG scheme must be updated. With a good and constructive dialogue, we can hopefully reach the goal of changing the system and having the opportunity to make agreements that concern the Faroe Islands. I believe that this can be done because our intention is to find solutions instead of creating confrontations. The key to maintaining the cohesion of the Kingdom community is mutual trust and respect. The security policy situation in the Arctic has changed. The main reason is climate change. The change in circumstances can have a major economic impact on the countries of the region. In the Faroe Islands, the composition of fish stocks changes. We must get to know this new reality so that resources can be used in a sustainable and responsible way. I am pleased to see that the government has also seen the importance of this and has allocated over 25 million. kr. for marine research in the North Atlantic for the next four years. Thank you so much for that. In conclusion, this parliamentary year will be remembered as something very special. General political strife was set aside in our common front against Corona. The same should be said of the Kingdom community. Despite differences of opinion internally, it is in the interests of all of us to unite. The team makes us strong. But we must constantly develop and adapt our unity to suit the reality in which we live. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622210729	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech to Mr Seligman. Edmund Joensen. There are a number of brief comments. First, it's sir. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622210735	Thank you, sir. Edmund Joensen for the speech. After all, we had a debate the other day in this Chamber about the Arctic and Greenland, but it was actually about the Kingdom Community. And it was suggested that we should try to lift up the Kingdom community, not just safeguard it, but try to find new ways of more dynamic cooperation. One of the proposals was that once a year we should hold a parliamentarians' conference with people from all three countries in the Commonwealth, in turn in the countries, so that we could openly discuss what problems are present now and so that we could influence our governments, regardless of who was sitting there. I would like to hear what the rapporteur from Greenland could say about that thing. But there's also another question: when we heard that debate about the DIIS report, it was online, and there were a lot of people who followed the debate because it's exciting, the thing about the Arctic, Jenis av Rana, who is a minister in the Faroe Islands, said he was disappointed with the report. He was disappointed that there were no visions. This was also mentioned in our joint conference in the Kingdom Community. What is it that the Faroe Islands are disappointed in that report?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622210853	Thank you. Sir. Edmund Joensen is from the Faroe Islands, sir. Christian Juhl came to say in Greenland. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622210854	Thank you. The last one first. In relation to the report: As I heard the Faroese Home Ruler, he thought it was a good report. And it was very telling. I mean, he spoke well about the report itself. But there were some things in the report that he didn't like the way I heard it. And it was all the red lines you didn't know or had defined what was. And it sounded as if when the Faroe Islands and Greenland have taken over responsibilities, you should be able to go in on the same cases and take them back again. But that's not supposed to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622211007	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622211008	Thank you. And I will not bother anyone by calling them someone from Greenland, but say that when you are from the Faroe Islands, you are of course from the Faroe Islands. I'm sorry. Edmund Joensen Very well). The second question was: how can we lift up the cooperation of the Kingdom community by anything other than just praising it when we have a good dinner and a glass of wine for? How can we give content to it? That is what we were debating last week, and it could be very good to hear what the Faroese people think of the idea that we promised each other that each year we discussed the Members of Parliament, just as we did when we started the debate on the Arctic Strategy the other day, when we had contact with all three countries at once.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622211046	Sir. Edmund Joensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622211046-2	I think the questioner is onto something good. Now I can just answer for myself, because it is the parliaments that have to decide. However, I think that the only right idea is that we should talk more together and that Parliaments should speak together and the governments should speak together at more regular intervals. I don't know if it means once a year in shifts, but it could sound like a good solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622211121	Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622211124	It is evident that between the three parts of the Kingdom Community there may be different economic interests, and so far we have also managed to deal with the Faroe Islands exporting fish in a large way to Russia, but now I noticed that Mr. Edmund Joensen said that there must be a common line against the great powers, and then I will again today I have done so several times before asking Mr. Edmund Joensen, what is the background to Mr. Edmund Joensen's party colleague, Jenis av Rana, in charge of foreign affairs in the Faroe Islands, insists that the Faroe Islands Embassy/Consulate should be in Jerusalem instead of in Tel Aviv, where everyone else is? What is the desire behind interfering here and putting a different line in relation to the great powers, where only the United States and Guatemala insist today that it should be in Jerusalem? What is behind Mr. Edmund Joensen's party wish?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622211222	Sir. Edmund Joensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622211223	Thank you for the question. The question has been raised several times, but the most important thing is that the national regime has a policy of setting up an embassy in Tel Aviv. Of course, the fact that a minister goes with his own thoughts resonates in different places, but the most important thing is what the national government plans to do and what the Latting plans to do, and that is to set up an embassy in Tel Aviv and not in Jerusalem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622211307	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622211308	I am very pleased with that. Then we should not just take it for good when Jenis av Rana makes solo announcements, despite being responsible for foreign affairs. That's reassuring enough. I would also like to hear Mr. Edmund Joensen's assessment of why a large American warship arrived at Thorshavn last year for the first time since 1984, as I understood it. What could be the reason for such an American military interest in adding to the Faroe Islands?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622211335	Sir. Edmund Joensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622211335-2	Thank you. Now I can only guess what the reason is, but it is probably for the same reason that we have discussed the Arctic issue, namely that there are tensions up in the Arctic, that the Russians are moving and that it has been a so-called protected area of low tension, and some have said that it has been an area where the Russians have been satisfied because they could do as they wanted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622211420	Thank you. The next one to make a brief comment is Mr Seligman. Christoffer Aagaard Melson from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622211424	Thank you very much for a very good talk with some good thoughts. I very much agree with many of the considerations which Mr. Edmund Joensen does, among other things. in the need for closer coordination and closer dialogue, for example. critical infrastructure where we need to be better at talking within the Kingdom community. So thank you for that. Lately, some of the things that I know have vexed Mr. Edmund Joensen, and as I also think has been a pity, the lack of focus on the Faroe Islands in connection with the reopening after the corona crisis. I'd like to ask Mr. Edmund Joensen to elaborate on what it means for the Faroe Islands when you are forgotten in the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs' travel guide. And what can it possibly mean for the tourism sector in the Faroe Islands that there is no focus on the Faroe Islands and on the possibilities for example. to go on holiday to the Faroe Islands from the Danish side?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622211519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622211520	Thank you and thank you for the question. Yes, it means that the tourist industry in the Faroe Islands since the corona crisis has been down, and there are approx. 1 400 people in the small community who depend on tourism. The Faroe Islands have actually rubbed themselves to get ready for tourism this year, because there has been a growing interest from Danes to get to the Faroe Islands, and as the Faroe Islands were a corona-free area and now it has been for 2 months, it was expected that a lot of tourists would arrive. But when the national government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs so advertise that you can now travel freely to Iceland and Norway and Germany, you take it as if the Faroe Islands and Greenland are not on board.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622211632	The questioner for the second time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622211634	Thank you. - Sir... Edmund Joensen points out some things that can be done on the Danish side to ensure that the Danes also realise that it is possible to travel to the Faroe Islands so that we can get the Faroese tourism industry going again, which I think we all have an interest in?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622211650	Sir. Edmund Joensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622211650-2	Thank you. Yes, it would of course help if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs told Danes in its travel guide that the Faroe Islands were definitely a destination and have even been corona-free for 2 months now. That would help a great deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622211715	The next brief remark is to Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622211718	Takk fyri røðuna. Thank you for your speech. It's so good to see Mr. Knox. Edmund Joensen again. Even if you don't know, sir. Edmund Joensen at one of the most beautiful tree plantations in the Faroe Islands, so I think he probably enjoyed the time there. In order to get to the point of the questioner from the Left, I can guarantee that tourism will get to work again. I will go to the Faroe Islands myself in a minute and promise to spend a lot of money when I get up there for a few weeks, and I would also just like to say that the Social Democracy has not forgotten the Faroe Islands in the travel guide. It appears that you can travel to the Faroe Islands when you go up there. But, of course, I would also like to put a question to Mr. Edmund Joensen's speech, and I was wondering if Mr. Edmund Joensen would not like to share his opinion on why he thinks the Faroe Islands play such an important role in the Arctic that his speech here today was about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622211810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622211811	Thank you and thank you for the question. The questioner should be warmly welcome to the Faroe Islands, he also has genes from the Faroe Islands, I understand, so he has something to do. The fact that the Faroe Islands are to be part of the Arctic is a matter of course. Firstly, the Faroe Islands' sea area is so far north that we are north of the Arctic Circle, and although the Faroe Islands are a small island community, the area itself, the continental shelf, is larger than the whole of Italy, for example, larger than England when measured up. After all, the Faroe Islands and fisheries depend on each other, and fisheries are mostly carried out in that area, and the Faroe Islands have great interests to be involved in the development of the North Atlantic. So that's all that speaks for it. These are jobs in the Faroe Islands. Here it is so popular to talk about jobs and earnings, and there are jobs and earnings in the sea around the Faroe Islands and so far up north.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622211945	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next brief remark is to Mr. Bertel Haarder, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622211948	Thank you for a powerful talk about the Kingdom community. I would just like to ask briefly whether the Faroe Islands have received an apology or a complaint from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because the Faroe Islands were forgotten in the travel guide. If not, then the Prime Minister can give the regret in his reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622212009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622212010	Thank you. Well, now I am answerable because I haven't heard that excuse yet, and I don't know if the national government has got it or the Latting has got it. However, I have certainly not seen in the media that we have had that excuse, and I do not assume that there will be an apology either. But if you just told me that the Faroe Islands were a holiday destination, I'd be happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622212051	Thank you, sir. Edmund Joensen. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. This is a welcome to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman. Sjúrður Skaale from Javnaðarflokkurin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622212100	We are in March 2017, and the then future Prime Minister is visiting the Faroe Islands for the first time. I am a host, and I try to fulfill her desire to get to know the Faroe Islands by meeting as many people as possible. But as we visit the various companies we have agreements with, she quickly gets raided into the executive offices, where enthusiastic bosses tell about what they are struggling with. Among salmon farmers, in 2017 there is one threat that fills the picture: salmon lice. In chief office after head office we see close-ups of the lice on huge screens, and the future prime minister gets a deep insight into the reproduction of the salmon lice, the anatomy of the salmon lice, and how the salmon lice can be combated without using chemicals and without damaging the precious salmon. I sit around sometimes thinking that these bosses sound a little like soccer trainers before an important game: of course we can beat the lice; we have proved before that we can beat strong opponents. And then they tell about how the fight against the salmon virus had been won with systematic tests in very large numbers. Since the trip is over, we'll give each other a goodbye at the airport, and I'm thinking it's gone okay. People have been welcoming and helpful and friendly, and the future Prime Minister says she has been very fond of the trip. But as her plane takes off, I am left with a feeling that she is now sitting up in the air thinking that there was quite a lot of salmon lice in it and that she had wanted to learn a little more about the people and perhaps a little less about the lice. So we're moving exactly three years forward. The Corona is breaking out in Europe, and the Faroe Islands are the country that is being hit relatively hardest. She has to deal with that, because now she's prime minister. I am concerned, she says in a speech, and urges that everything you have be put in place in the Faroe Islands. Again I have a feeling of what she is really thinking: Dear convicts, now care as much about human health as you care about salmon health. But she will come to understand later that it is two sides of the same coin. The great capacity and experience built up to test salmon for viruses are now being used to test people for viruses on a large scale, and so the Faroe Islands are going to beat up three statistics in the global tale of the corona's ravages: 1) we are among those who are most affected at the beginning, 2) we are testing the most and fastest, and 3) we are among the first to become completely corona-free. So it is the battle for the well-being of the salmon that rusts the Faroe Islands to fight the pandemic. Thus, in the year 2020 of this gentleman, in the Faroe Islands, political learning is emerging, which we can call the salmon lice doctrine. It shows how things are connected, and it gives us good pointers in most of life's relationships. The Lakselus doctrine says first of all that it is not only disease that is contagious. I was thinking about that last night when I was at dinner with good friends in the apartment where one of the PM's predecessors, a certain Mr. Thorvald Stauning, 120 years ago lived, thought his thoughts and made plans for a community of solidarity. This created a sense of community, of co-determination and of co-responsibility, and it turned out to be very beneficial 120 years later when the pandemic hit Denmark and his successor were in charge. In unsolidarian societies, things did not go so well. Spring has been marked by the debate on racism. What does the salmon lice doctrine say about that? It says that details, each of which are almost invisible and seem quite insignificant, can do great harm when added together when they become many. A single salmon lice is nothing; many lice can overturn an industry. A single racist remark does not seem to do much harm, but if we do not strike them down as long as they are isolated, they will become the building blocks of a culture and attitude that is excluded and, as we have seen, explosive. Condescending words are harmful; they are contagious; they are salmon lice. The Prime Minister announced in May that in the next parliamentary year there would be a law that says that investments in telecommunications should be made by Allied countries. The address was ready: China needs to get out. It was a step out of fear of the great power in the east. That was good, because we have to stand up to China. But it will be difficult, among other things. because in the Faroe Islands, in good faith and with the green light of those who have the security policy responsibility in the realm, a close collaboration with the Chinese on telecommunications has been established. Although security is common to the whole realm, telecommunications is a Faroese matter and even if, in the name of security policy, one can legally move an area back to Copenhagen, it cannot be done politically. You want to undermine the scheme just by trying to do so. This decision has to be made in the Faroe Islands. When salmon lice become so many that they get out of control, chemicals must be used to fight them. As long as the lice are few, they can be fought with fresh water. Chemicals in our world mean political power, fresh water means dialogue. Developments in the Arctic require a great deal of fresh water to be used in the coming years. After all, the Kingdom must be together and separate, while the economic and military rivalry of the great powers is increasing. I would therefore like to thank the government for the open approach that has been adopted, now that the empire is to have a new Arctic strategy. All the lands of the kingdom have their forces. Greenland's enormous geography is of course most important, but the location of the Faroe Islands and the large sea area also give weight, and although Denmark, we must say, is a small country outside the Arctic, the economic and diplomatic muscle is larger here than it is in the North Atlantic. If we can combine these forces, we can become a great player, a great power in the Arctic, but it requires, among other things, that Denmark is willing to rethink its foreign policy priorities and use more resources to strengthen the position of the Commonwealth in the North Atlantic. Finally, I would like to thank you for your cooperation over the last year. Some cases have been resolved, others hopefully the year will come. If we take the lice one by one, we'll do it with fresh water. But sometimes the lice get so many that it takes chemicals. Earlier today, a verdict was handed down in the Supreme Court, where four people who for 10 years have been accused of very serious financial crime • among others. via a Faroese bank was acquitted. It's just the latest of many cases where the Danish state has accused citizens I know most about the Faroese citizens and since spent 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 years finding out that they are actually innocent. But the indictment is public. The press is judging them; the People's Court is judging them. They're losing their career opportunities. Their privacy is affected; their families are affected; their legal security is affected by the judicial system. What you really do by allowing things to last so long is to judge innocent people. The fact that this is happening time and time again shows, I think, that something is wrong within the very core of the rule of law. This is totally unacceptable and it is something that I will pursue in the year that is coming. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622213109	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it's from sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622213116	Eisini tak fyri røðuna. Tað is altíd gott at hoyra eina predoyska red. Thank you for your speech, too. It's always good to hear a Faroese voice. ] They say the Faroe Islands are far away, but what is really far away? I just want to say that I think that when Mr. Sjúrður Skaale has the floor, so it feels as if there is a spiritual centre, which is at least very, very close, even if I think that Mr. Sjúrður Skaale had already chosen some very good topics to address in his speech to the opening debate. But it has been some time since William Heinesen, who is also a famous Faroese poet, in one of his short stories said that today... So small began to crowd out the immensely long and elegant Faroese medieval period, and it has to be said that things are going well in the Faroe Islands, and that is also understandable, Mr. Sjúrður Skaale says in his speech here. It is in progress and you have also managed your own self-image, and that is good. But I would also like to ask Mr. Sjúrður Skaale a little bit into the substance of what he says, because what does he think about when he talks about relocating his resources in the Arctic?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622213226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622213227	I am thinking of many researchers who have said that if Denmark prioritises its resources differently, then one can become a superpower in the Arctic. If you look at Norway, I believe there are 1,500 Norwegian researchers working on Arctic topics, and I believe you are investing 2.5 billion. Norwegian crowns in it, and it gives Norway a gravity and a weight and a force of impact in Arctic contexts that Denmark does not have. We have had a visit to the Arctic delegation by researchers who are looking for investment, because they want to start measuring. After all, the research ship Dana is out of date and a new research ship is being called for, but so far it has not been put in place. I understand that it is now on the way, but if you want to use the opportunities that many scientists think you have and that I think it is perfectly obvious that you have, then you have to ask whether you should spend as much resources on conducting foreign policy in the Middle East as you do, or whether you should spend more resources on the place on the planet where the kingdom is, namely in the North Atlantic.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622213330	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622213333	Thank you for that and thank you for the statement from the other of the Faroe Islands in the Folketing. I'd like to expand on something. Let's say I had been in the Faroe Islands and had been charged now I don't know what I should have done for a crime or what I should be accused of; I'm not so famous in the banking world, but it could be there. Is it true that if I had been accused, I would not have been convicted until the year 2000, 10 years later? I think that is a slowness. Does the rapporteur not have any proposals on how to do it differently? Because whether it is at the top of society or at the bottom, I believe that legal certainty must apply to everyone. There has been a tendency that it is hard at the bottom to find one hundred percent legal certainty, whereas one can afford one's lawyers at the top. Can it really be 10 years? What is the reason for this, and what is the solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622213432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622213433	Thank you for the very pertinent question. I believe that the state must set itself certain limits when it goes after a person. And this isn't just about the top. The ten-year period is right. It is absolutely correct that it took 10 years on the last case. I also know an example of a young boy who made the unspeakable stupidity of having a glass of illegal tablets with him to the Faroe Islands. Years passed I think it was 5 years before the trial came to trial, and it was a huge burden for him and his family for all the 5 years. So I think that the state must set certain limits when it says, "Now we're after you."
ParlaMint-DK_20200622213511	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622213513	Thank you. So it might be interesting to hear: What can the Faroese do, and what can Denmark do to ensure that it is changed? Because there are not so many cases in the Faroe Islands that it is incalculable. The second point raised by the rapporteur was that of the research ship. I also think it is a scandal that the new research ship has not been planned long ago and also has a production plan so that we can sail and learn more about the Arctic. Some time ago, in the Nordic context, I proposed that we build some research ships together, because then we could make better use of the capacity. At least one research ship should be available to the Kingdom Community at least. Otherwise, we should ask our Nordic friends: can we together build some research ships with state-of-the-art gear, where you could borrow each other's, for example. Would you like two research ships to go at once? What would the Faroese wish if they were allowed to wish?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622213614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622213615	Thank you. Now there are many questions. I do not think that this is only happening in the Faroe Islands, so it is not only Faroese citizens who are exposed to the fact that matters are not closed; it is also happening for Danish citizens in Denmark. I believe that the government now has plans to invest in a research ship. It is high time. I can say that in the Faroe Islands during the last reign we made a gigantic investment in a research ship, so of course we are happy about that. But it is almost absurd, as the questioner says, that Denmark too does not do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622213649	Thank you, sir. Sjúrður Skaale. There are no more brief comments, and so the time has come to give the floor to those Members who are outside the groups, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622213707	Denmark is a lovely country. We are able to overcome big and small problems. Despite the massive shards that the corona crisis leaves for some citizens and businesses, we have a society that basically works well. But everyone can see that bourgeois Denmark is challenged. This may be due to a great deal. When Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen claims that foreign policy is what binds the blue bloc together, so is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen may be closer to explaining the bourgeois deroute than he himself is aware of. Of course, being a citizen is not about foreign policy. Civility is about financial accountability and about value policy on the basis of the rule of law, about education and vision. Denmark has immediately managed well through the first half of the corona crisis, as the Prime Minister rightly said. But it hasn't come by itself. The only reason we can distribute aid packages to the right and left is because we are reaping the benefits of decades of responsible reform policy, the policy that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen carried out, as Helle Thorning-Schmidt was forced to, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl effectively prevented and which the Prime Minister has now set out to dismantle completely. But that's not the last thing I can do. We need to get the reforms back on track. The focus should be on improving conditions for businesses, focusing on making it easy for citizens to get a job, focusing on moderation in the public sector. Financial responsibility is what has always bound the bourgeois parties together... always... that is what binds us together, not the tight immigration policy. I understand that there are some who can gradually get the impression that bourgeoisie is just a club too tight, tighter and tighter, really tight and really scary tight. But being a citizen is something quite different and much more. It is natural that there is a difference between conservative and liberal when it comes to value policy. However, across ideological differences, the defence of the inviolability of the individual, the defence of human rights, the defence of personal freedom, the defence of European values and the love of the rule of law have historically been united. In the schism between state and individual, the bourgeois has always stood on the side of the individual. That is what is the bourgeois basis of value. But it is as if something is slipping in these years that the values are slipping. When Mr. Rasmus Jarlov scornfully calls the principles of the rule of law fine French principles, and sees Karnov as being contrary to Denmark when Mrs Pernille Inger Marcus Knuth cheering, when AfD became Germany's third largest party, when you abruptly normalize right-wing concepts such as knees to Islam, population replacement and Islamisation and respond to Black lives mats with: "All lives mats', and when you consistently argue with discord and distinctions instead of bringing the Danes across religion and ethnicity, you reap as you sow. You amplify problems, you create anxious hearts and sad minds. Don't get me wrong: of course we need to be able to talk about the real problems and find solutions, because that fear is long gone. It is useless neither to make newcomers victims nor to consistently turn them into enemies and scapegoats. Instead, we should also remember to be happy that, on a large number of parameters, integration is progressing: daughters of immigrant women, who are much more in employment than their mothers were, that far fewer than in the past, in their choice of boyfriends, that more people feel a connection with Denmark. It's better than the rumor is. Former Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen launched the ambition of a firm and fair foreign policy. The fixed thing is fulfilled. Now it is also a question of ensuring that the policy is fair. We need to get reform policy back on track. We must ensure that Denmark is a good place to start a business and succeed with it. We must ensure that our companies stand strong in international competition so that they can sell their goods more easily in other countries. We must ensure that Denmark is an attractive country for both smart heads from abroad and for foreign investment. Only in this way will we be able to afford to continue to have good health care and education and to overcome the next crisis that might knock on our door. We must ensure that last night's green tax agreement does not end up with a higher tax burden, but becomes a real blue-green tax reform with lower taxes for citizens and businesses and new taxes that significantly reduce the burden on our planet. That is the only way we take climate policy seriously, and we owe it to each other and to those who come after us. We need to get the wheels going so that we get optimism and enthusiasm again in Denmark. It's always been a bourgeois matter. Then the bourgeois compass needs to be put back in place. Humanism must once again be a civil virtue, along with openness, liberalism and a solid defence of the rule of law. It is time to write a new chapter on bourgeois Denmark. If a bourgeois Denmark is the same as hatred of Muslims, then I am not a citizen at all. But if civility is economic responsibility and a policy of value on the ground of the rule of law, then I am not just a citizen, but I am also proud to be a citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622214436	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first one is for Mrs. Halime Oguz of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622214442	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. Both from the critical questions put by the rapporteur to some of the various parties on the bourgeois side, but also in relation to the speech, one can conclude that the rapporteur is opposed to symbolic policy. That is why I would like to know whether the rapporteur agrees that interpretation fees, such as: In the health care sector, a lot of bureaucratic trouble is being caused, and which does not really make any profits for the Treasury, is also symbolic policy, in other words the legislation that the rapporteur himself helped to introduce when you sat in government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622214532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622214533	I do not know whether it is symbolic policy, but I would agree as far as saying that it is not wise policy. But it is the case that when you are in government, and I am going to see the questioner perhaps someday, you have to make compromises to get your policy through. And it is of course everyone knows what the support party of the previous government had and what the support party wanted, so here you had to give yourself something to get something and then you moved on there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622214559	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622214600	But is it to be expected that the rapporteur will be involved in abolishing the interpretation fee in health care? Because there is no medical justification for this, and thus it also increases the inequality in health, which is going to cost society both human and economic.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622214619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622214620	Yes, it would be possible to imagine that I would be part of it for the sole reason that you could risk some people not getting the treatment that the right people should have when you have such a fee. Therefore, I think it would be the wisest thing to do away with it in a purely health-care and human way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622214636	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622214638	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech, which, after all, is very nicely anchoring a mass idea of the bourgeois value base, which I certainly sometimes miss a little bit in here in the Parliamentary Chamber. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille and myself got to know each other very well, as we had such a rather unholy alliance across the Assembly Hall against amendments to the Public Access Act, which has shut down very much what we can get from access to documents and how we can follow what a government does and does not do and on what basis, and on what basis, was very, very much agreed at that time, that it was, to say the least, a disgrace to democracy. Then it happened that the government changed and the Liberal Alliance entered the government, and then it has to be said that there was Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille as Minister and a part of the government really the chance to do something. So what happened? Why do we still have the public law that we have today?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622214737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622214738	There are two large and three small reasons why we still have the cover-up law, which unfortunately came into being in 2011, 2012 and 2013. The two major reasons are called the Left and Social Democracy, and the three small reasons are called the Conservative People's Party, the Radical Left and the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622214758	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622214808	Thank you. The rapporteur says that we could vote to remove the interpretation fee. After all, the interpreter fee has been introduced for people who have come here and who have now spoken a lot about the individual and the individual's rights, but is there not also a duty as an individual to live up to a kind of social contract if you are also to have some of the society?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622214847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622214848	I certainly think that we should set out to learn the language of the country we move to. That is beyond question. But I think that when it comes to people's lives and health, we should be careful that we don't get so square in here that there are people who get sick or maybe even can't survive because they don't understand what's going on. I think that is important. We've just lived for a while, yes, we're still living in a time of very serious illness. Perhaps it should give more thought to the interpretation fee as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622214922	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622214923	It's just not what the interpretation fee is, because you're still getting away from a medical consultation. The doctor just asks for an interpreter and then sends a bill. It's not like you're not getting your medical treatment. You just have to pay for it yourself if you have been in the country and chosen not to learn the language, even if you have been taught by Danish taxpayers. If you choose not to, but do not have to pay for it yourself, why should you learn the language that way?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622214951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622214952	But as far as I am aware, it has had no positive effect. Besides, you can't pick your hair off a bald one. Well, if it's people who have no ability to pay, we can send them a bill, and then what? What difference does it make? It is with the words of an earlier question purely symbolic policy in that case.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622215010	Thank you, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille. There are no more brief comments. The last rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique, also outside the groups. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622215024	As I stand here today and am about to give a rapporteur's speech on behalf of Free Greens, i.e. Susanne Zimmer, Uffe Elbæk and myself, here for the final debate in the Danish Parliament, it can be seen as an example that most things can be done in Denmark, regardless of what kind of upbringing one has had, regardless of the fact that I grew up in Blågård Square, regardless of the fact that I have a different skin colour than most Danes, and regardless of the fact that some cops called me a monkey when I grew up on Nørrebro. Now that that kid, who some cops called apecat, is now standing here on the top of the country's piano chair, everything can be done, can't it? That is the positive interpretation. But is that the right interpretation? Do we all have equal opportunities? Unfortunately, the truth is a resounding no, because many are behind on points from the start. The world is not open to all, even if they fight day in and day out for it. We brown Danes are still under-represented in the Folketing and in positions of power in general. We see as many minorities discrimination and systematic racism. There is no equality in Denmark, there are no equal rights for everyone in Denmark • not in practice • and this applies to women, it applies to people with disabilities, it applies to people with disabilities, it applies to Greenlanders, it applies to Roma, it applies to brown people, and it applies to black citizens. There is still no equality. In the United States we saw the icy police killing on George Floyd and before him many others and the historical injustice that too many still live with. We saw how wrong things can be; we saw how dangerous it can be not to belong to the majority; we saw how dangerous it can be to have a different skin color. At home in Denmark, after the assassination of George Floyd, we have had an absurd discussion about whether there is racism in Denmark at all. I'm afraid there is. Of course there is, including in the Danish police. But the Minister of Justice has refused to make an independent investigation into that. The government has also refused to condemn the behaviour of the American President, who has responded to peaceful demonstrations with aggression. How I wish, as a whole, that we could distance ourselves from Trump's methods and the police killing and loudly and unequivocally say: Black live mats! In addition, we may come one day, but I would like to keep one minute's silence on the floor right now for George Floyd and everyone else who has lost their lives because of racism, discrimination, hate crimes or ethnic profiling. Praise their memory! One minute starts now. Black live mats! I hope that the silence and reflection from this floor will reach the United States and out to all those who are attacked because of their skin color. I also hope that the silence reaches Nørrebro and northwest, to Gladsaxe and to Odense, to Gellerup and to Aalborg, so no one can doubt that we see you, we hear you, we love you. Black live mats! Another crisis, which is at least as urgent as racism, is the climate crisis, and I might as well keep one minute's silence for all those who have already lost their lives because of man-made climate change. Millions, perhaps billions, will lose their lives if we continue as before. It calls so much a minute's silence, but more than anything else it calls for immediate climate action, so that fewer people will die, so that we do not kill our own civilization. We have seen with the corona crisis what a government is capable of if it is seen as important enough. This makes the failure of climate policy all the greater. A united Parliament of all parties except the Free Greens is desperately pumping money into society to get consumption going and the growth that is destroying our future. It's shameful to witness. So perhaps I should also keep a minute's silence before all the green promises made in the supposed climate elections only a year ago, because they have died. In the Free Greens, we will do everything in our power to ensure that Denmark is really the pioneering country that politicians from both sides of the House have promised the electorate. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622215732	There were two seconds left of speaking time, so it is respected. Just to those Members who would find it inappropriate to do so, I deliberately chose not to break in, since it is the rapporteur's right to use the speaking time in this way. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first question is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622215752	30 seconds it took exactly until you turned it into a matter of skin color. I find it deeply shameful what is going on from the platform right now. What an apology, and I'm deeply provoked by the fact that because you've reached somewhere, you've done it on the basis of skin color or not. It is deeply shameful that you want to spend your time on the most important platform in this way. I myself come from conditions that were not easy, parents who were abusers, tribal problems and all sorts of other things that you fight a way through. Should I have achieved those things because of my skin color? Should I feel superior to anything because of my skin color? This is the Danish Parliament, and it is shameful what you have witnessed from up there, and at least it should not be uncontroversial.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622215850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622215851	It in no way surprises me that New Citizens react that way when we pay tribute to the diversity of Denmark's finest assembly. It surprises me in no way that the rapporteur for the New Citizens' Party, of course, feels called upon to discredit it, that I pay tribute to diversity, that I pay tribute to the matter of Black lives. So I have no further comment to make on that. But for me, it's just important to say that this platform belongs to all citizens of all colours, all religions, everyone who lives in Denmark, and as long as the Free Greens are in the Folketing, we will pay tribute to diversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622215939	Just for the record, the platform belongs to Members of this House. Lars Boje Mathiesen for his second remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622215946	I've been a teacher for almost 20 years. I have worked in schools with a great many immigrants, and it is on their behalf that I feel deeply offended. For you deprive them of their success, their struggle, what they have achieved in their lives, what they have worked hard for, their hard work. You take that away from them with one snap and make it a question of whether you achieve anything based on skin color or not. So on the basis of all the students I've had in my time as a teacher, it's deeply shameful what's going on from the platform, because you're taking their success away from them, and I won't stand for that. Because they have worked hard for it, and when they move on to high school, when they move on, the honor belongs to the young people and not from up there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622220027	Thank you to the questioner and the President will ask that no direct indictment be used. Thank you for the question. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622220032	The rapporteur's speech was the best example of what I am trying to address. The rapporteur says: I have been a schoolteacher for many immigrants. Immigrants, i.e. boys and girls who were born and raised in Denmark. The only place I walked in from is the Rigshospitalet, but I'm still called an immigrant. That is where the whole problem lies, that is, as long as we do not see each other as equal citizens, so that we will never achieve successful integration. And I just want to make it clear from this: the time has come for us to see each other now as equal citizens, the time has come for us to respect each other regardless of colour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622220112	Time's up. The next brief remark is to Karina Adsbøl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622220115	Thank you. I really feel, really provoked by the rapporteur's speech. For who is it that divides people into whites and blacks? That is the rapporteur! Each but it never, never ever was about dividing people up, after whether you're white or black... never... ever... in here from the Folketing, ever. Who is it that divides people up? Who is it that creates racism? Is it Mrs. Sørensen who says that the whites should be in the back row? Or is it the rapporteur who stands on the platform and talks about whites and blacks and divides people up? It's not about skin color. We're kind of color-blind in here. I simply do not understand the rapporteur's speech. So who is creating racism? Is it the rapporteur or is it us in the Folketing? The rapporteur must be able to answer that question. Does the rapporteur think that the members of the parliamentary parties are a bunch of racists?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622220218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622220219	I believe that the Danish People's Party has such a view of minority citizens who are deeply xenophobic. I believe that the Danish People's Party has so much helped to tighten the rhetoric vis-à-vis minority citizens. I believe that the history of the Danish People's Party shows many, many years that rules and laws have been adopted which are aimed at specific groups. And I can only say that the Danish People's Party must now get used to the fact that there are also voices in the Danish Parliament that speak for diversity. I could say a little naughty that when the Danish People's Party and New Citizens react in this way, I have hit somewhere quite right with my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622220306	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622220308	Well, it's just comical this. Well, pull up the victim's card, there! This isn't about skin color. It's about custom or land planes. It's about when you come to a country like Denmark, you have to integrate. We must accept the rules and standards that exist. One should not change an entire society because Denmark needs to be changed to adapt to others. That's what this is about. However, the rapporteur makes it up in skin colors. It is simply pathetic to withdraw the sacrificial card from the platform and turn it into a discussion about skin color. It has never been about skin color. It's just embarrassing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622220347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622220348	So the George Floyd killing wasn't about skin color? So, with regard to the thousands of black Americans who, through history, have been subjected to police brutality for decades, have been subjected to structural racism, is it not a matter of skin colour? Isn't this about skin color? It's really about skin color, isn't it? Excuse me, it sounds super, super strange to me that the party that has looked up on skin color and religion is now telling me that it is not about skin color that it is not about religion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622220420	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622220425	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. It certainly became very clear to me, sir. Sikandar Siddique, that although we have attended exactly the same primary school and have grown up on each side of Blågårds Plads on Nørrebro, the rapporteur has had quite a different period of primary school than I have, and has been called some very different things than I am. So thank you so much for putting it in place, sir. Sikandar Siddique that discrimination is taking place in Denmark. Now to the real question. After all, we have recently adopted a proposal for adoption, a joint Parliamentary Assembly, which obliges the government to do something about the police's efforts in relation to partner killings. In fact, I just want to hear the free green mandates whether the Enhedslisten can count on their support when we propose in the police conciliation negotiations that we work to stop police discrimination. Unfortunately, we know that the risk, if you have a different ethnic background from Danish, of being stopped on the street and searched without being charged, is much greater than if you are an ordinary white Dane.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622220537	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622220538	From here I can give full support to the Enhedslisten's fight in the police conciliation to combat discrimination against minority citizens. I myself have been up to several times to give concrete examples of this happening. Danmarks Statistik has been out with figures. DR has made a documentary about it. There are cops telling me about it. There are thousands of stories out telling us that racial profiling is actually taking place. That is why I can only support the demands of the Enhedslisten in the police conciliation and can assure you that this is, of course, something that the Free Greens will follow.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622220621	The next brief remark is to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622220625	Thank you for that, President. What's happening on the platform now just tells me all about Mr. Sikandar Siddique has not understood what the Danish democracy is about and what the work in the Assembly Hall is about. It is about working for a better Denmark, and it is not about what is happening in the United States or what is happening on the street. What the rapporteur is saying up here is what the rapporteur could say on a beer box outside for a demonstration. It doesn't belong in the Assembly Hall. This just confirms to me that the rapporteur has not understood what is going to happen in Parliament. It is not a matter of taking a demonstration into the Parliamentary Chamber and standing on the platform, Denmark's foremost platform, proclaiming what is happening on the streets. It is the street parliament that the rapporteur has brought into the Folketing, and it does not belong here. I would just like to say that the rapporteur has not understood what is going to happen in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622220726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622220727	I repeat myself and say that from this platform all citizens must be represented. For too long, as I said in my speech, there has been a under-representation of minorities in here. The composition of the Folketing does not reflect the population. It may well be that in this Chamber, especially from the right, one has been used to having a very, very harsh, very narrow-minded approach, and I would say xenophobic approach to the whole question of integration and minorities, but now minorities have lived in Denmark for 50 years, and the young boys and girls are storming up on education. They're coming out. They're trying to get there. They are trying to contribute, and that will, of course, nuance the debate, including in here. You have to be ready for that. One must understand that being Danish is also being brown.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622220827	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622220828	That is not the point at all. It is about the fact that the rapporteur pulled a demonstration from the street in here and proclaimed it, "Black lives matter". The rapporteur is proclaiming that we must keep a minute's silence from the platform. What happens in the United States has nothing to do with Denmark. The rapporteur can stand out on the street and say it there and take part in demonstrations all he wants. We have a democracy where you are allowed to demonstrate everything you want. There is no demonstration into the Parliamentary Chamber, as the rapporteur has done.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622220901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622220903	Racism is a pandemic. We must all stand up to racism. We have to do the same here in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622220919	The next brief remark is to Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622220930	With great respect for the rapporteur, I did not know at all that he was able to arouse the feelings that are evidently the case. I believe that what we see is that there has been a certain political direction in the area of value policy which has been allowed to dominate incredibly much over the last 10, 15, 20 years. What is happening now is that we say from a number of quarters that we are not going to be underneath that. I just want to look forward to working together across the board that now we don't have to let this kind of thing get under way anymore. I have. And thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622221018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622221020	I would like to thank you very much for your support. And then I just have to say that 50 years ago, many of our parents came here, but the next generation and the next generation have not come here. This is at least as much my country and the country of all the other minority citizens as it is the country of some others. And we must now together create the next Denmark; we must now, together as equal citizens, find out what Danishism is. And the right wing must turn to that. Let me conclude by saying that the response to my speech today says everything. A peaceful, friendly diversity revolution is needed. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622221121	There is one more brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Beazley's report. Nils Sjøberg of the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622221126	Thank you. I don't want to ask questions. I would just like to express my appreciation and great respect for what the rapporteur has said here. I think it has been well done and I have great respect for it. I also meet people of different groupings in society and just want to thank you for what was said here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622221150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622221151	I would like to thank you very much, and I am pleased that there is also a great deal of support among the parties at Radicale, Enhedslisten and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille. Because this is an important fight. Racism is also a pandemic. It is across all national borders and it is structural. You find it in everyday life. I brought a piece of paper here that I haven't read. And if I read out the examples that appear on that paper, these are messages that I receive every single day when I do my political work... then I'm sure there won't be one in here who says: Well, we can't understand that you think there's a need for a diversity struggle. Not one! Those are violent messages. So when I'm told that hey, we shouldn't leave here, I'm just thinking that you should try to be me just one day. You should try being those minorities out there just one day! Because then you will experience what racism means, and then you will experience what racism can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622221259	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one more brief comment, and it is for Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622221304	Thank you very much. I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on having done so. It was when the Danish People's Party was founded. During the first many years in the Danish People's Party, everyone shot at us with tomatoes and spit at us when we were out on campaigns. We have tried everything that the rapporteurs are saying should be because of its skin color. We know what it's like to be minorities. We also welcome diversity, and it's fine that there's room for different people and different skin colors and all that. What we cannot tolerate in the Danish People's Party is that the speaker takes a problem which is not a problem in Denmark and leads to racism here. What is the rapporteur thinking? Does the rapporteur have a single example of a policeman here who has behaved in the same way as we saw in the United States? You start digging ditches and dragging that light victim card with that it's because of skin color. Has the rapporteur ever seen a single example of the Danish People's Party saying something because of people's skin color?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622221409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622221411	Now you must simply stop here in the Folketing. You have the lead when it comes to violation of the penal code's racism clause, hello! I simply cannot take that question seriously. I mean, your whole policy is based on scolding minority citizens, and then I get that question. I simply cannot take that seriously. I simply do not know what to say. I can give you countless examples. We have police officers who were the pearl case. Right now, a police officer is being investigated for calling many minority citizens rats coming out of the sewers by a Rasmus Paludan demonstration. We have a police officer convicted of violation of the racism clause. I am not saying that the entire police force is racist, by no means, it is an amazing force we have. The only problem is that we have to recognise that there are citizens out there who feel discriminated against.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622221520	Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622221523	Thank you. I think many people can feel that, no matter what skin color or sexuality or political observance they have. But what is our task here in the Danish Parliament is to solve problems and not create new ones. Somewhere I think it is nice and privileged to hear the rapporteur's speech, because I was so happy and thought: how nice it is that, according to the rapporteur, we have no problems at all in Denmark, so we have to import something that has happened in the United States in order to fill out a rapporteur's speech at all. Then I think that I am proud to be a Dane and live in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622221557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622221559	Then I will try to give some examples. We have legislation, such as: The Danish People's Party has been involved in the process, which is targeted at a minority group. We have innumerable examples in the press over the last few weeks when it can be seen that minority citizens are being subjected to racism. Now I'm going to give you some examples: Perchhog, think definitely, an idiot like you should leave our country or stand out in front of my Audi, then the black stripes will be wheel web and not skid marks, asshole. You're a fucking disgusting pervert, looking forward to civil war against your inbred fellow species, you ape. Islam is the plague. I can keep going, and I can keep going. It's everyday life.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622221640	Speaking time's up. These were quotes, I could see from the rapporteur's papers. Thank you. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622221652	I had actually decided not to ask Mr. Sikandar Siddique no questions. When it comes to the way it does, I think, on the other hand, that we also need to continue a little along the track that Mrs Mette Dencker made here. At the heart of what is happening here around Black Lives Matter is, isn't it, and it's a question that we in the United States have had what we may well recognize from the Danish side, namely a form of racist behaviour by some policemen? Then it is that Mrs Mette Dencker asks: Is it that Mr. Sikandar Siddique finds it in Denmark? On the contrary, I believe that it is quite dangerous if Mr. Sikandar Siddique like illustrates to the public here and in the Parliament that this should be the case. And I think that this is a suspicion of Danish police officers, as Mr. Sikandar Siddique is working on it. Is Mr. Sikandar Siddique agrees that it is a little on an undocumented basis that this suspicion is being made here today?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622221806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622221807	It is not the case that either the police force is racist or it is not. The Danish police force is by no means racist as a whole, but there is evidence in the form of a DR documentary showing that there is racial profiling. There are figures from Danmarks Statistik, and the Institute for Human Rights has dealt with it. Thousands of stories are out there. There's also a police officer who says there's racial profiling. The problem is that, as long as we do not want to recognise that there are challenges, we cannot solve them either. It is a huge problem if the legislator does not recognise and say that there are a lot of citizens out there who feel discriminated against and who feel and say that they have these challenges, and then I have asked the Minister of Justice to do an impartial external investigation. If there are no problems, why is it such a big problem to do such a study?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622221905	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622221907	It is, of course, a problem if you suspect Danish policemen in this way. After all, we all have a great deal of confidence in our police force in Denmark. In fact, they behave in a way that allows you, as an immigrant in Denmark, to go to the police and get neutral, proper treatment. There are some immigrants in Denmark who may not really believe in and do not dare, but the reality is the other. I understand, therefore, that the Minister for Justice thinks that this is a suspicion which one does not want to have sitting on oneself. And I had to say that, now that there were some readings of some things that Mr. Sikandar Siddique regards as racism, might well show similar approaches from Danes who feel exposed to racism from immigrants in Denmark. We can have that discussion, but that's just not what Black lives mates are all about. It's about police officers, and I thought that Mr. Sikandar Siddique needs to think about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622222003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622222004	I find it deeply problematic that, when it comes to foreigners and minority citizens, the approach of the Danish People's Party is that, because there is negative social control in some parts, everyone is cast out. When it comes to the police here and we say that there may be racial profiling in the police, we must not investigate it at all. Those are double standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622222038	Thank you. Time's up. The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622222041	I heard the rapporteur say: we are not many minorities in here. No, we are. It's supposed to be the last one. I find it very difficult to understand the trench excavation which I hear lies in the rapporteur's speech. It seems almost as if the rapporteur is thinking: let me just blow it off wildly, because then there will probably be a lot of jumping on it and kicking it. And we all do. But has the rapporteur asked himself whether that is what our society needs, that is to say, that we need to be incited to fight and to hate between groups? Perhaps it should be more about how we create a society in which there is room for all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622222147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622222149	I understand that sir. Søren Pape Poulsen as a white majority citizen cannot understand it and cannot understand it in the same way. I understand that, because it's not the same thing. It's not the same to experience it. But I also have to say that there is everyday racism. There is structural racism. There are stories out there. Racism is a challenge facing minority citizens. I don't dig ditches. I have been in here for a year and my message is always solidarity, and my message is always that we have to stand together, but we just have to say things as they are. There are challenges in society with racism, and we need to address that. We cannot hide behind such a false self-conception that everything is good. We have a great society, one of the best in the world, but we have challenges of discrimination and racism. We're gonna have to talk about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622222251	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622222256	We can talk about a lot, but I think you have to consider how to talk about it and what ditches you get dug. We can all, and I think there are many who can, stand and read from our inbox. It is not only the rapporteur who is experiencing it. I would just like to say that homosexuals do not necessarily get through the messages easily. Others experience something different. The members of the Danish People's Party, I do not know how many years, have been spoken uglylyly by other groups. Then I just want to say one thing: Danish police are absolutely eminent and fantastic. Can the rapporteur imagine what the officers are listening to day after day in certain residential areas from one, the other and the third who face them and talk so cleverly to them while the officers keep quiet? We need to be proud of a well-educated police force that keeps it quiet, instead of talking to each other. I am very, very concerned about the rhetoric that the rapporteur used today and I am worried about what it leads to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622222401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622222402	And I am very, very concerned that there is no greater understanding in Denmark's finest assembly that there are citizens who are discriminated against, citizens who experience racism. The reaction in here is really a clear sign of the narrow-mindedness that is at the root of many of these challenges. And I would just like to say once again that the time has come for a friendly, democratic, legitimate civil rights movement. We need to see each other as equal citizens and define the next Denmark together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622222441	Thank you. The time has come for the President to insist that speaking time is respected. Sikandar Siddique Sorry). The next person who has asked for a brief comment is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622222452	Thank you. I must admit that I am a little shocked to hear such racist statements from the platform. I understand that you, as a white person....., the rapporteur tells Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen. In other words, the rapporteur divides into skin color, and that is racism to such an extent. I think the rapporteur should be ashamed of himself. Then there is one question: the rapporteur says that he was born in Denmark fair enough. Why, then, is it that the rapporteur refers to himself as being a minority group?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622222522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622222523	Because I'm a minority citizen, I'm a brown Dane. But I demand and say like everyone else. When my parents came to Denmark 50 years ago, they should be grateful, and so are they. They contribute to the country and they built the country. But men and women like me, who were born and raised here and are not immigrated from anywhere that was born in the Kingdom Hospital, will not be discriminated against. We want to tell you openly and honestly that there is discrimination and discrimination. We should be able to talk about that. I am really glad that we are having this debate today. I welcome the reactions that we are getting from, I would say the extreme right in the Folketing, because it is now coming to light that we do not want to recognise that for 20 years in Danish politics, minorities, sexual minorities, brown citizens, black citizens with legislation and with rhetoric, have been targeted. And then you still can't say that, yes, there is racism.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622222630	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622222631	It is the rapporteur himself who divides himself into brown and white. I'm a brown Dane. That concept does not exist; it is nonsense. I can then enrich the rapporteur by saying that I have a secretary as dark as the rapporteur, and I see him as pear Danish, and he himself does. And by the way, he knows nothing about all the examples that the rapporteur is standing there with. We, on the other hand, do this as members of parliament, because we are all exposed to it because we are members of parliament. It has nothing to do with the skin color. I think there is something that the rapporteur has got completely wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622222700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622222701	Well, now it's not me alone. This is all about. It is therefore about the 320,000 Danish Muslims, it is about the 500,000 non-western immigrants we have out there, it is about our lgbt people. Yeah, it's about women, too. This is about discrimination, and that's what I'm talking about from here. And I know that in this fine assembly you are not used to hearing a brown Dane speak and speak it, but I just have to say that the time has come for us to celebrate diversity, and the time has come for us to recognise that there are challenges out there so that we can solve them together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622222743	The President repeats that the time has come to keep to the timetable. And I try very kindly to show it by getting up and it's because time has actually passed. The next brief remark is to Mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622222752	Thank you. It almost seems that the speech that comes here is more for Facebook than it really is for the Parliamentary Chamber. Because I'm sitting here with a quiet wonder, considering if what's going on now splits more than it gathers. And then I actually think that there is a rather gross accusation against the Danish police, which one cannot just dismiss with a debate about racism. Sir. Sikandar Siddique writes at some point on Twitter: "Dear @Rigspolice. What are you doing to prevent us from ever seeing a murder like that on George Floyd in Denmark? ▪ What is the purpose of such a tweet if it is not to create division and division, and if it is not to suspicious Danish police, which we can be proud and confident about, and if it is not to use a very unhappy event in the United States as a basis for suspicious Danish police? Mr. Sikandar Siddique really that it's fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622222855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622222857	I have debated this in almost every media, and every time I talk about the police, I start by saying that the Danish police are doing great. The Danish police as a single force is an amazing police force, but it is documented over and over again and yes, even a police officer has been out in Jyllands-Posten and say that race profiling takes place. I cannot understand why it is so controversial to tackle where we have some challenges. That is also why I am asking the Minister for Justice whether we cannot have an externally independent investigation into how much racial profiling is taking place so that we can solve it and so that we do not have to intimidate all police officers. But I would like to make it quite clear from this that this is not a squeezing of Danish police; we are proud of our Danish police. But just as our prime minister says that in relation to management under corona we make mistakes, and just as we see mistakes in hospitals, and as we see mistakes in nursing homes, of course there are also mistakes in the police. And they're the ones I'm trying to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622223008	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622223010	So a murder of a black man in the United States must be linked to an impartial investigation of errors in the Danish police. I just don't get it. I think it actually contributes to hate speech against the Danish police. In fact, I think it contributes to a division, and I think it is sad.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622223034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622223035	The killing of George Floyd has started a debate on racism in many parts of the world. There's nothing unnatural about that. It is perfectly normal when an event occurs somewhere that it gives rise to a political debate, and that is also what it has done in Denmark. But if the fact that I have tried to start the debate in Denmark is considered by the rapporteur to be a squeezing of the Danish police, then I can completely deny it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622223111	Now the half hour of questions to the rapporteurs has passed. Finally, I would ask the rapporteur to read out the proposal for adoption so that it can be included in the further negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622223122	Following a good and warm debate, therefore, on behalf of the Free Greens, I shall present the following: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that not enough is being done to curb the climate and biodiversity crisis and their disastrous consequences, and that the Danish Parliament thereby fails to comply with the demand for climate action that has been made by the population. The Folketing should declare climate emergency and as a consequence gear our economy as a kind of green war economy, which is necessary to save civilisation as we know it. The Danish Parliament notes that the outbreak of the corona virus has shown that it is possible for the government to act quickly and effectively if it is experienced as necessary, and the Danish Parliament expects that the government will act much more ambitiously to curb and mitigate the climate and biodiversity crisis. The Danish Parliament notes that a diverse, open and internationally oriented society, a rich cultural life and strong and independent civil society organisations are crucial parameters for bringing about the change in society that is needed. V 98). Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622223242	Thank you to the rapporteur and the proposal for adoption will be included in the negotiations. That brings the rapporteur to an end, and I should like to welcome the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622223311	Yeah, what's it become? A 12-14-hour and indeed a good and constructive and proper debate. I was a little surprised that there was a sudden shouting in this Chamber, and I think I would be able to make my reply extremely brief by fully agreeing with Mr Beazley. Søren Pape Poulsen's words, which I thought very, very well framed both what we stand with and stand in, what we are rounded off and also what it is that has created the results in our society. But now that you have the opportunity to say a little more than that, we start a little over, don't we? Because I would have liked to have just said thank you for a very long and also good debate, and of course I will not help to delay further. The parliamentary year has already gone into extended playing time, and I understand that I only have 30 minutes. That is the equivalent of half of a Corona press conference, so I shall be very brief. It's been a really weird time. We've been separated, and somehow we've come a little closer together. For example: We now know what both politicians and journalists have read from books or what books they have placed behind them. It's been a bit like that. Do you know the type?• where the type just comes from the beginning. For example, we were together in consultation and we could see that Mr. Jens Rohde both plays the piano and just by chance on that day had the book "Germany," which seems to be 600 pages, standing on the piano, and political commentators and journalists have also been diligently shown the collections of books. One of the ministers has taken a small step further by presenting both a book collection and biceps at the same time. Søren Pape Poulsen could at any rate be • Tax Island • There have been many questions about taxes • and I have not dared to show a book collection myself, but it is clear that modernist poems like Steins • A rose is a rose is a rose • of course could be one of them. But now we're back together with no books, and that makes bookshelf easier. On the other hand, the opposition in the hassle of the government is again, that is the way to find faults, and that is not because you want the government to feel bad. On the contrary, you have to understand, it is a form of help so that we can become wiser, and it is a sign of a great profit. We can all stay smarter, and perhaps this is especially true if, as an unnamed journalist said last week, you have lost one half of your brain. Then there is a bit of a long way to go, but now we have to go back to normal before the good cooperation gets to our head, and today I want to say not on supermany news, but still a few individual ones. Sir. Jacob Mark and Mr. Alex Vanopslagh has spent an extra year in kindergarten. This is new to me, but it may explain very well why exactly the two thrive so well in this Chamber. In general, we get to know new sides of each other in this coronatide. I understand, sir. Torsten Gejl wanted not only to return to normal, but all the way back to kindergarten so that he could better understand the politics of the Radicals. Perhaps it is a little heavy responsibility to put on our educators, I think. They're pretty much pushed out there with emergency care and other things. Well, then there was the Left's desire to halve the VAT or rather park it in the moth bag, like the frigate Peder Scramble, one has to understand, so it still lay there if you need it. Now I just remind you, in all silence, that Peder Skram was the frigate behind the hoofsamissilet, which shot a half-summer hush area in the sink in the 1980s by mistake. Perhaps it is very good that both Peder Skram and the VAT proposal are allowed to enjoy retirement in peace and quiet. I'm kidding. In fact, our cooperation in this Chamber has been quite unique. In a few months we concluded almost 40 broad Corona agreements, the most important was all the parties of the Folketing, thank you for that. Svend Auken once wrote: In the middle of the road there is nothing but white stripes and dead flies. Nevertheless, it is worth remembering that the results of a democracy are often created when people from different starting points meet in the middle of the road and find common solutions. Actually, that's exactly what we've been doing. It may be difficult to hear that that is what has happened, it may even be painful to recognise for some that that is what we have done, but that is what we have done, and I think the Danes are kisteklad for it. I think our people across the board are grateful for, expected and perhaps just quietly pleased that for a while we put ourselves, short-term political interests and party-tactical considerations to one side and were preoccupied with one thing: the people and to get this small magnificent country through so well what would turn out to be the biggest crisis since the Second World War. It has been impressive, I know how much it has required of everyone. I think it's a good job. In fact, it is not just about the corona that we have had a parliamentary year in which we have cooperated well. In the past year we have made just about 60 agreements on things other than corona, the vast majority of them across the middle of politics. Those of us who have been with us for a few years know that this is not the same thing when it comes to negotiating a broad compensatory reform in terms of objectives. It has also succeeded. The compensation agreement has brought peace to the economy of the municipalities, a better balance, and there is better advice for welfare in the municipalities of the country. Nor is it self-evident with broad agreements in the green area, among other things. the waste sector. It has been tried, it has failed in the past. Now there is also a broad agreement thank you for that. And I don't think it's actually a coincidence that the TrygFonden has recently conducted a study that shows that confidence in us, the country's politicians, hasn't been any higher since then. That has actually been very well done for precisely those of us who for so many years have suffered less than the opposite. A broad cooperation, pragmatism, the ability to find solutions, perhaps in reality not to shout so much of each other, talk together, meet with different starting points, yet come in where the compromises are reached, but where the result is so much stronger, what has shaped the Danish folk government, and we have done so for many years. Across changing governments and political majorities, we have met, given, taken and created solutions that enable us today to have it and enjoy the huge privilege of being allowed to be responsible for one of the world's most powerful societies. It has proved its worth again, and we have shown that we are capable of lifting our ranks, not least when the crisis strikes. On the other hand, I am a little surprised at how little the corona has filled in today's debate. If you listen to the debate in this Chamber today, it is as if it is almost over. I wish it were that way, and I wish we were that far. But I don't think that's the way it is. And I am just as impatient by nature as many of my colleagues here. I miss everyday life, and I look forward to the future. But it is not only Mrs Pernille Skipper who must be allowed to be the dull lady with the hand spirit, because the fight against corona has not been won. It's only the first half we're through. And if we raise our eyes a little bit, we can see that Hjørring is at home, for example, and out in the world it is Beijing, for example, and now in Germany how quickly it can come back. If we pretend to be there and we won the fight, we risk that the people will be surprised if the virus flares up again and we will need either to reinstate some of the restrictions we have fortunately now been able to put aside or to introduce some new ones. Maybe the dance with corona is just beginning, we don't know. We must hold on to optimism and there is reason to rejoice at what has been achieved. We need to get Denmark back on track. But let us not forget that the virus we set aside to fight kills. That's what it does. If it gets the wrong people, those who can't get the disease, then it kills and it can go fast. And all of us who can rejoice again to go to a restaurant or enjoy a cold beer in good friends' company or be with colleagues for a whole day or a little long day, but a whole day should remember that the others are also here in our society, those who still can't go outside a door, those who have to live with the awareness that until there is a vaccine or effective treatment, then a hug of their very sweetest can be deadly. There are those with chronic diseases, a cancer here and now, or those who, because of old age, are not allowed to meet the monster and the beast we have so effectively struck down. They're part of our society. Solidarity, the community, the willpower of Danish society carried us through a spring, but all these people need the rest of us still to hold on and not to pretend that we are through, because we are not. Sir. Thulesen Dahl said something very right and important, namely that the teaching from corona is that community and social mind carry us through, and that is only if you feel that you are united. I think it was about the way the words fell. At any rate, I agree with my own rewriting. I think that's how the words fell. That leads to the question: What is it that binds us together, what is our unique strong community based on? Several have made a bid during the day, I agree with it: democracy, equality between men and women, a welfare society with right and duty, solidarity, strong common values. These are the ones we need to protect. For many years, foreign policy has divided Denmark. I think we just sensed how the discussion can take place in this Chamber too. Our aim must, of course, be a policy of aliens which can unite us; that we in this House are capable of pursuing a policy of aliens which the people can actually support. In our view there is no room for value relativism, nor is there room for symbolic politics. We must face up to the problems and talk about them as they are in a good and proper way. Failed integration has drawn long tracks and continues to do so in schools, residential areas. Crime is more than twice as high in male descendants with a non-western background than in the entire male population. It's a huge problem. And the proportion of 20-24-year-old male descendants from non-western countries convicted of criminal offences is four times as high as that of young men of Danish origin. It's a huge problem. It is also a problem that about half of all women of non-Western origin are outside the labour market. And even if we have heard examples of the opposite today, the problems do not disappear from this. We need to be able to talk about all the problems there are. Now the day also came to be about racism and discrimination. Is it in our society? Yes, it does. Is that a problem? Yes, it is. Are there women who are not allowed to go to work for their husbands or who, moreover, allow culture, tradition, oppression to define what they can and cannot do in their families? Yes, there is. Is that a problem? Yes, it is. After all, we can only take this country forward if we in this Parliament can have a discussion about everything without relativeising; be clear on our values, but also give our very, very clear support to actually solving the problems that exist. That is why we cannot take integration or the lack of integration seriously without saying that the number is important. In our view, there should be no more here than we can integrate, and we are still behind that challenge. That is why we are holding onto reception centres, and indeed we are being criticised for not having achieved everything, and how wonderful it is in its own way that the expectations of this government remain. I just have to admit, and I actually do with my forehead up and straight back that we've had other things to do in this spring. And yes, we have made the clear choice, the clear priority, that very many tasks, regardless of how important they were and are, were put aside because there was one task that was more important than anything else, namely to get Denmark through this crisis. We have succeeded, by common help, as well as I almost think it was possible, with the conditions that were given us. Now we're somewhere else. When we meet again after the summer holidays, not when the Folketing opens, but after the summer holidays, we can get started with some of the other important tasks that lie ahead of us • in the field of foreigners in relation to a new asylum system and many other things. Have we reached what we wanted? No. Do we intend to achieve what we want? Yeah. This brings me to the next, which is probably one of the most important topics in the Danish Parliament, namely the climate and the green transition. Perhaps the night's agreement has reinforced the green focus of today's debate I do not know. But in any case, it's a great deal. It embraces wide. We were the first in the world to build offshore wind farms, and now we are also the first to build energy islands. The agreement speaks a clear language so clearly that it can apparently get a party like the Liberal Alliance that resigned from the Climate Act to join and participate in this. Thank you. We are in a health crisis, we are in an economic crisis. We know that we are still in a climate crisis with global warming. It is not time to get cold feet. Nor has that been the case with today's debate. On the contrary, there has almost been a race about who is the most ambitious. And that's a great competition. It is good to be ambitious, and it must be said that Denmark has chosen to be in the climate area. However, it is not difficult in itself to set targets; the difficult thing is to achieve them and at the same time recognise and acknowledge that it will have consequences. When someone says that if everyone is just hit by a green tax reform, the problem is solved, then we know that quite simply it is not going to be that simple. Because we must, in our view, insist on a real social balance in this society, before the climate crisis and after the climate crisis, that is to say, in our handling of this social balance for the people who would like the green transition, but where, of course, it would not be fair for those who already have the least, to pay the most. The balance will be important for companies, for jobs and for employment. It is also important, we think, in relation to the fact that if we are to move the rest of the world, Denmark will have to take the lead in a wise way where we do not just move emissions to other countries. This can help our own 70-percent target, but it does not help the climate. It will not be resolved tomorrow, and we know that it will interfere with the lives of many people. But come on, we're already on our way. It has given international reverberation to the 70-percent objective. And I agree with that, among other things. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr said today in her speech that many of us, probably not all of us in the Folketing, but many of us were elected on a mandate of hope. There is also a strong desire for a green transition. Now we have taken some of the first major decisions, and then we continue after the summer break, and we look forward to that. Today's debate has also reached a little bit about pensions. What was important before corona is also important after. This is evidently also true of the opposition, because the proposal for entitlement to a previous pension was, after all, opposed before the crisis. At that time, the argument was that there was a shortage of labour. Now the corona has given a financial setback, and then you are opposed for that reason. I just think that we mean something fundamentally different. For me, the corona has shown the strength to show solidarity with those who are the most vulnerable. A society is more than bnp; one must be able to trust that one is not left behind. And no matter how we turn around, whether we agree with one or the other or the third reform, and where we are in relation to the question of early retirement now, it is hard to get around anyone in this Chamber, that when you have de facto abolished the early retirement scheme without replacing anything else, which then for some groups is gradually getting settled, there is still an unsolved task. And we are many mandates in this Chamber behind the welfare agreement. Yes, I am sorry to tell those who are against that agreement, but it is one of the main reasons why the Danish economy is as strong as the Danish economy does and is a very important part of the condition that we have been able to do what we have done in this spring. It just doesn't change the fact that we're going to have a very high retirement age, and everyone can't just keep working. And that's why we're holding on. Here, too, I welcome the criticism that we have not done everything quickly enough. I look forward to presenting our ideas and, of course, I also hope here for a broad political agreement. On the question of how to move forward with this issue, including in terms of funding, our approach is, of course, that the broadest shoulders should bear the heavyest burdens. We still believe that the financial sector can provide a greater contribution to society. Of course, the crisis must mean that we look at this with critical eyes, as with everything else, but the banks and credit institutions have had billions of profits before tax in both 2018 and 2019, and this year there have also been some places that have again been able to afford wage increases at the top of the banking world. Now, it was a little bit about the more national debate we have had. There hasn't been much time today to discuss the world out there. But just two important impact points on my part at the end. Firstly, the Corona crisis has shown us a vulnerability, both in Denmark and in Europe, which we think we need to take seriously. We lacked protective equipment; we lacked test equipment; we could see that we were dependent on being able to buy out in a world society that could not deliver completely vital things when we needed them. That vulnerability should be overcome and, in a common European cooperation, strengthen what can be called the critical infrastructure also in the field of health. The way of thinking must not, for all things in the world, sit down in the fact that the world is now beginning to think in protectionism, starting to denounce free trade agreements, starting to consider only and only going the national way. One of the reasons for the prosperity that we have experienced over the past many years in Denmark and in Europe is an expression of the exact opposite: that we have an effective global world market, that we safeguard free trade, transparency and transparency. And therefore, both for the sake of the international community, but also for the sake of Danish companies and exports, I would like to call for Denmark to continue a strong foreign policy profile in which we constantly choose to strengthen the international world community, not the opposite. This also applies to the discussion we have had today, of course, about the Kingdom community. This has been said several times: why does the government not talk about travel guides when it comes to our community? This is fundamental because we never think of the Kingdom community as the rest of the world. We're for good and evil part of the same thing. I said in my speech many hours ago that Denmark was not only built on stone and stone. This applies to the Kingdom community. We are entangled in each other's history, traditions, culture, family ties. And yes, sometimes you travel to each other's lands and are led into stories about salmon lice and other things that you would not have imagined in your wildest imagination that you would become an expert in. The Kingdom Community is strong and, moreover, in relation to the rest of the world, a unique way of living together side by side three countries. Are we in a new age? Yes, we do. And we can feel how the wind blows around us. We've felt that in the year that's soon passed. It is important, we think, that we hold fast to a community of kingdoms based on fundamental respect and trust in each other, but where we also manage to navigate together in a world that looks different than just a short time ago therefore, for example, the discussion on security policy on a completely new premise. We have gotten around very well in today's debate. Now I've almost spoken in time for half a corona press conference, so I'm gonna stop here. However, if I do not say so at the end of the day, I would now like to thank you for your commitment and, above all, thank you for an exceptionally unique cooperation here in the first half of 2020. We can all be familiar with that in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622225750	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for this. We shall now proceed to the brief remarks. It's first, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622225757	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Prime Minister. If this is like a Corona press conference, it may be that we have to make both brief remarks at once. The Prime Minister said in his speech earlier today as well as in today's Berlingske that now is the time for financial responsibility. We are a few who have actually thought it has been all along. Yet it is so remarkable that the Prime Minister can draw a front page on saying that. This is probably due to the fact that it is a little unconventional financial responsibility that the Prime Minister is proposing. It is with a re-establishment of the post-earning wage, which will cost billions of dollars every year; it is with a growth in public consumption that must be above the demographic trend; and it is the tax increases of billions on top of that, and it is, after all, in the midst of a historic economic crisis. That is why I really want to ask the Prime Minister, who has said that the Prime Minister does not want to raise the tax in general, if she wants to raise the tax specifically in order to pay for the new early retirement. The Prime Minister spoke a little about this in his closing speech, but I would really like it to be specified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622225907	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622225908	There are several things that I would like to answer to that question, but first of all ask: what is really the answer of the Left to those people who, year after year and decade after decade, have built up this society, who have worked hard on the Danish labour market, have been worn out and maybe all the way through a hard working life and, for some, an excessively hard working life, which is no longer part of an early retirement scheme because it has deteriorated over time and may not be able to enter the new senior pension scheme? What really is the answer to these people? And is that a perfectly reasonable way to discuss this by saying that it is just a new pre-retirement wage when that is not what we have proposed at any time? After all, what we are aiming for is to resolve a specific problem that the Left itself has created.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622230009	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622230011	It also reminds us of a Corona press conference in such a way that the Prime Minister does not really answer critical questions, so we are kind of back in the Mirror Hall. It's really nice. The Left's answer to the people described here by the Prime Minister, who have had a long, hard and hard working life, is the senior pension. That's why we introduced it. And I have an assumption that that is why the government also agreed to that agreement when we came on the other side of the election. One of the things the Prime Minister also wanted in Berlingske is honesty. This wasn't a super honest answer, you might say, because I'm actually just asking for the answer to how to finance what I call the new pre-retirement wage, because I think that's the most accurate one, but we shouldn't really see the model yet. Is it with this extra tax on the banks, or is it another kind of tax increase for all Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622230106	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622230108	The financing of a right to a previous pension for those who have had a long working life must, of course, be crowned to crown. That is what I am reporting in Berlingske today. There's just two things for this. I believe that we have jointly pursued a responsible economic policy in this spring. It would not have been responsible not to make aid packages. It wouldn't have been responsible not to make pay compensation. That was wise, and it was right for us to hold our hands together under both employment and companies. But we must also say that it has become a little bit speed-blind, and that is why we must now return to a penny for crown-financing. This also applies, of course, to the government's priorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622230150	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622230152	Yeah, I'll see if I have a little better luck getting an answer, but it's kind of a different ball street, so it can be. That's because my sidemate here, sir. Morten Østergaard, who in addition to wearing EU socks sometimes can scare me too, said something in his rapporteur's speech today that scared me a little, namely: The families of children are on their way out of Zealand, the paradigm shift has broken, and Denmark has again taken quota refugees. Step by step, we're setting a new direction. Here, too, I think we have only just begun to relax foreign policy. Then I just got a little confused because, before the elections, the Prime Minister said, in fact, right here outside the Parliamentary Chamber: 'Cause I am not going to, and I would like to make that clear again, to form a government that relaxes the policy of foreigners. We have made this very clear. Well, then I'm just thinking, either mr. Morten Østergaard did not understand any of what is going on in this parliamentary year, we are now finishing, or the Prime Minister has broken the promise she made to the Danes before the elections. What's right?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622230252	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622230252-2	Perhaps we need to discuss reality. Is it correct to claim that we are moving some families from Soulsmark to another centre to take one example or that a broad majority here in the Danish Parliament decides that Mint should be allowed to come back to Denmark with quite a few other children and young people in the same situation, or that we are creating a small change, which for some selected groups of people is the right, a relaxation of foreign policy? If we look at how things have gone with the influx to Denmark over the last year, and that will not actually be true, because the period of corona obviously has to be withdrawn from the equation, for example, in the area of asylum, then it seems actually quite reasonable. Doesn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622230347	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622230348	But is it not extraordinary that, after the elections, we should just define ourselves out of it and say that it has nothing to do with foreign policy? Then we can do anything. We can just call it something else, like that funny thing, I think it was in the debate at a time when Clement Kjærsgaard tried to ask the Social Democratic rapporteur that you had to stay in Denmark as a refugee if you had work, even if you had to go home according to our rules, and he was then told: it is business policy. It's not a foreign policy. Mint? There I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs has now recognised that this was a relaxation of the policy on foreigners, but it was a relaxation that we would like to make. So I guess there we got an admission that it was a relaxation. The benefits that are being increased? Well, it has nothing to do with aliens. It has something to do with some families with children. Well, then you can define yourself out of it all. Then it doesn't make any sense to take this discussion anymore. Isn't it just because the PM wants to get out of what she came to say just before the election?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622230436	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622230437	But we have not generally raised the benefits. It is true that there has recently been an agreement in which a number of bourgeois parties have contributed once to a single grant of DKK 1,000. Then we have chosen temporarily to help some vulnerable families of children. We have not generally raised the benefits. We are also opposed to doing so. When it comes to the rules on asylum, influx, family reunification, access to citizenship, there are broad political agreements, and they should do so in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622230508	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622230509	I would also like to thank you both for your cooperation and for your reply. Of course, some animals could be missed in the answer. That was a great success at the opening debate. The closest we've come to it is sir. Sjúrður Skaale's salmon lice is somehow not the same. I really think the panda out in the zoo deserves attention. It is the fine animal that at some point decided that it would now be free. It climbed up, one must understand, and squeezed out under a hole in the fence or whatever, and walked freely in the closed zoo free as the bird, I had almost said. It is a fantastic animal that runs bamboo down, and if the sun, moon and stars are right, it may rise once a year to see if children can get along with its mate. Therefore, it is actually just an invitation to perhaps take the good that has been in the corona crisis. This drive towards freedom and also use it further in political cooperation, because perhaps we can work together in this way on other things, even when there is no corona crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622230631	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622230632	The panda is, you might say, challenged by exactly that, sir. Morten Østergaard referred to the fact that it is not always certain that it will deliver once a year, where, as it were, it will be delivered. And that would be such a rather boring statistic for the work of the Folketing, one can say if that is what it should put itself in. I would like to respond to the call that we have done a great deal together, and we have achieved it at a rate which those of us who have been here for about 20 years have never seen before. That spirit and will can easily be transferred to other things, among others. the climate action that we are now facing seriously about to have unfolded, so the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622230731	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622230732	Well, that's exactly why the analogy with the panda is good if it bothers. That's what's so fascinating. We in the Folketing have just proved here in the Corona crisis that when we bother, we can actually do very great things; things which in other countries have proved very difficult. And if we do as the panda in the autumn, that is, if we want to do, that is why the point is: let us now have a good and warm summer holiday, and then let us return in the spirit of the freedom-seeking panda, who wants to fight a little to achieve a strong result.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622230820	Thank you, and then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622230821	Or maybe the Folketing is in need of a little summer vacation, and what you do in it, by the way, I shouldn't interfere in And yes, of course, a society that has been partially shut down needs freedom. But I just want to say two things to it. After all, we have avoided the very massive and violent decommissioning that comparable countries have been through; we have not had a curfew; we have not had to shut down all private production; we have actually been able to maintain most of our society. And in relation to freedom, just to perhaps repeat: Remember, in our desire for the • how many people should keep looking after themselves and that we should keep looking after.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622230912	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622230914	Thank you for a long day and in fact maybe a long week. Even though it's only Monday, I think I've spent a lot of hours in here lately. It's just before I feel I could move into the Ministry of Finance and we're actually ready for that. However, I have at least spent many hours, also with many of my colleagues, and I think we have actually achieved some very good results. We also have a big discussion in here about whether we should have an evaluation of all of this and how this evaluation should be... there are many discussions about process. I think it is wise to have an evaluation if the evaluation is about the experiences we can learn from, i.e. the things that have gone wrong in the Danish health service • that it was pressured that we really had very few intensive places, what we should think about in relation to our health care in the future • but also the good experiences we have had during the corona. Because we can see in our health care that there are more pregnant women who have actually gone all the way to term and that there are fewer who have subsequently needed knee surgery, so that all that complex of good and bad experiences we could carry on into the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622231027	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622231028	Well, I've got the record, of course, I don't know if it's quite correct that Mr. Jens Rohde at one point during a meeting in his joy at some result offered the Minister of Finance that he had to kiss Mr. Jens Rohde's wife, and now Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr says that they have moved into the Ministry of Finance, so now I think that the Minister for Finance should be allowed to come home to the wife of the Minister for Finance and not all sorts of others. This is gonna be a little rough. The summer holidays are approaching here in the Folketing, I can feel. I'm kidding. Yes, we need an evaluation. We have always thought so from the government's point of view. Of course, in the context of what would turn out to be the biggest crisis since the war, we should have that discussion, also with a more future aim. So I would like to give my support to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622231134	The words that are being said are in the Rules of Procedure. It is perhaps more thought that is wrong with it. Here you go, Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622231150	So it's really hard to come back after this, President. In relation to the experience of the corona, we have to learn from them and that was the good experience I had to return to. One of the things we've been using a lot of... I've at least taken advantage of a lot of what's nature. Fortunately, last week we managed to make an agreement on nature, so now there are two more national parks in Denmark. I think that is positive and money has been set aside for even more nature. But we promised together during the election campaign further national parks. Is the government willing to take a look at it in the next parliamentary year?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622231237	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622231238	What was important before is also important after, and this applies especially to our nature and biodiversity and the fight for it. One of the things that may have been most frightening to most people during the corona has been to see how, when we humans withdraw from the activity we need to return, the dolphins suddenly swim in more clear water, and in many places on the globe you can suddenly hear birds and see nature in many places where you have not been able to experience it in the past. So, yes, we are certainly willing to continue working on the track we have already started together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622231312	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622231314	I don't have a joke, but... the Prime Minister, you have some spirit. Yes, I have a hand alcohol and, speaking of hand alcohol, I would like to thank you for reminding us that we are still standing in a pandemic which is quite serious and in which somehow we will find a way to live with the corona virus in our society and to look after the people who are particularly vulnerable. In fact, I thought that was really important to say. I believe that tomorrow the Committee on the Rules of Procedure will have to meet, and then we will probably have to decide to set in motion a study where we need to learn about some of the process; where we need to have some independents to examine in particular the phase in which Denmark was shut down. I believe that what is being covered is from 1 January until the start of reopening society. It is important to examine it, I think. What I think is worrying is that we are not getting an investigation started which is also taking the time up. What happened to warnings from the Kingdom Audit? What were the consequences of the re-priority contribution to health care? What about all the other warnings? Does the Prime Minister not agree that we should also have examined how we could
ParlaMint-DK_20200622231431	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622231433	I think I will say two things to that. So, first of all, I assume that those parties who want to have openness and evaluation and want to examine this process will of course also be willing to look at the course that precedes the corona hitting the world and hitting Europe and Denmark. Anything else would be strange if you had a desire to become wiser. Secondly, I would like to say that it is just that everyone is involved in the further work that you can discuss quite a lot about the management of the corona, and of course you can do that for good reason, but there is at least one thing that you have had difficulty planning your way out of, which the evaluation will also show, was that there was suddenly a moment and a time when there was no time to consider a lot where there was no time to write down and where there was no time to do fine, exciting processes. In fact, there was only time to make one decision: to shut down quite a lot of social activity so that we could save lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622231534	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622231536	That is why we can probably also learn something about how we can stand better if that situation comes back. I do not think there is any doubt that many years of re-prioritisation in health with cuts have meant that we were in a worse situation, even though our health services have really done a lot to move things around. There is no doubt that when you overhear warnings from the National Audit Office and the Danish Health Service about lack of preparedness, it has a consequence. And I think that is important to have an investigation; not least to make it clear that one of the reasons why Denmark so far seems to have come through so strongly is that we actually still have a welfare society. So isn't the Prime Minister also willing to promise again that we should prioritize and strengthen this in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622231620	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622231622	I think there are many explanations as to why Europe was not ready when the global pandemic hit us, but equally understandable in reality it is, taken into account our history and we must 100 years back before we have stood in something that was almost comparable. It is just as important that we can look our people in the eye and say: next time we are prepared in a whole different way; there is another infrastructure, there is another organisation that looks at the critical infrastructure, including protective equipment. That is at least the way we work in Denmark now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622231704	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622231705	Thank you. It has been a little, one should say special season, we have had here in the Folketing and not least in recent months. Many of us need enough, and I think the Prime Minister does, that we are just pulling the plug for a few weeks and living like pandas, I almost said, at least on long stretches to relax. But before we do that, we might as well take such an update on what happened here today with my list of votes on the holiday money. I was getting really excited about Mr. Morten Østergaard's speech, because I thought: yes, now there are 90 seats. Then I have to say that the answer did not quite reassure me that it is going straight home, but there are a few days to talk about it. We should boost consumption, we should get Denmark going. I guess it's not starting in Denmark that we're creating 100,000 new top tax payers by 2020. Doesn't the Prime Minister agree with me that it would be very wise to stop it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622231813	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622231814	Yeah, well, I've been sitting there looking over to sir's office a little bit. Søren Pape Poulsen's list along the way here during the day and will say: Well, I understand the argument. Of course, it should be borne in mind that this applies, as in other respects, to the fact that it costs money, and one has to consider, on the one hand, whether it is the ones you want to use, and, on the other hand, whether you want to use them, and, on the other hand, whether you can use them for something that was even wiser. So I think there are several nuances in it. Whether Members of Parliament should spend the summer as a panda, I should not interfere, but one could hope, on behalf of colleagues, that it was a little more fun than at least some of the things that we have been referred to from the life of the panda.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622231907	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622231907-2	At least I hope so for the PM now when she's getting married. But having said that, I would like to say that, just as we agreed on the payment, we agreed on what we also had at the table, namely that when we pay these holiday money, no one should be set off, that is, people who receive other benefits should not be set off. I'm really glad we got there, because I think that's actually good. I guess we can also say that there is no reason for ordinary workers and lorry drivers and nurses etc. must pay top tax. After all, it is an income that the state did not expect to receive at any time. It was something you had seen in many, many years, when you retire and perhaps weren't top tax payers anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622231951	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622231951-2	Well, I have to say, a little in line with that, sir. Morten Østergaard said earlier, I also take the view that, in a way, it was well known what an agreement had been reached, including about the payment of holiday allowances. However, I have listened well to the discussion that has taken place here today and also in public, but, speaking of what I have also said earlier today to a newspaper and very much to repeat, we are there now, too, when we have to start and look at, not only what we spend money on, but also how much money we spend.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622232031	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622232032	Thank you for the floor. I guess I feel personally that whether I'm gonna spend my vacation as a panda or as a Rambilee or even as a camel or a dromedar, Ali, I don't care. Now we just need a vacation soon, and I could imagine that the ministers who have been in charge of the epidemic and the officials who have been working around the clock behind will also be in need of this much, and that is very, very good for them. To my question. The Prime Minister says that in recent months there has been a form of economic speed blindness, and I fully agree with that. After all, the billion-dollar packages have gone out to the right and to the left, and we have been in an extraordinary situation. There is a need for us to return to financial responsibility and I can guarantee that we in New Citizens will very much like to engage constructively and actively in that fight. It would be good for Denmark if, in the autumn of this year, the government chose to make an agreement on the economic framework for restoring the economy with the bourgeois parties rather than the Reds, because we need to put growth and prosperity on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622232151	Then we get an answer from the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622232152	I must therefore be honest in saying that I think it has had a value in itself with the broad political cooperation, and I have seen that someone, including journalists, says: Now we have to go back, and the best thing is when politicians argue and disagree with each other. I have actually still the merit of finding a Dane outside Christiansborg who is not paid by a Danish newspaper that has the same point of view, and there I am probably a little closer to the Danes than I am to the journalists. So I have no need to stand now and choose whether it should be to one side or to the other, what I also think is a rather unfortunate way of doing this. And then I just have to say quietly that I very much agree with that, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl said before: we never quote from negotiating rooms. There we must be able to have a free space with each other, but I do not think I reveal too much when I say: it is not the case in this discussion that this so-called or at least tends to be a speed blindness in terms of economics, and perhaps even overbidden is something we have seen particularly in one block. I just have to say that quietly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622232304	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622232304-2	I can confirm that. After all, we have been outside a part of those packages for the same reason, where we have felt that it has gone too fast, but let it go. When I say that, it is because it is not so long ago that we were in a party leader's round in which the Prime Minister was faced with the choice of whether to pursue a responsible policy where a stop was put to taxes or whether to maintain the understanding paper and the intentions that were in it. And when the Prime Minister said that society would not be subject to any more taxes and taxes, the day after that there was no outcry, but a small call from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622232343	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622232344	Perhaps the very best thing for Denmark and for Danish economy, Danish employees and Danish companies would be that everyone just laid their well-known • Now we return to the animal kingdom again • Rope horses a little aside, came to the negotiating table, also after the summer holidays, and acknowledged that we are in an extraordinary situation where there is a need for some extraordinary solutions. That will certainly be our approach. Finally, may I say thank you to the officials in government, ministries and authorities who have worked enough more than they have ever done before this spring. We often commend ourselves as politicians, but those behind it who have made all of this work are rarely praised. So thank you very much for the fact that someone in the Folketing who today marks that the officials in the central administration, among the authorities, have carried out a giant they deserve a great, great thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622232446	Thank you. Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622232447	Thank you. I will follow up on Mrs Pernille Vermund's question. I really think it is relevant to discuss this with the Finance Act. Especially because last year's Finance Act was, of course, marked by ideological hoops from the government and the government's support parties. And so it is known that it was a financial law that had so many taxes that it made all income groups poorer. That's what the Ministry of Finance said. All income groups, even those for which cash assistance is increased, are becoming poorer overall as a result of the Finance Act, because one had the ideological objective of increasing the public sector as much as possible and putting as many taxes on the Danes' shoulders as possible. That's what made everyone poorer. Now the Prime Minister is setting out to look at things more pragmatically and riding fewer poop horses, so to speak, and that is fair enough too. But does this mean that the next financial law will not repeat the success of last year? We do not want to make all Danes poorer, we do not want to put a lot of taxes on Danish business and on Danes just to make the public sector bigger. Or how can you understand the Prime Minister's wish that you have less focus on classic sticks?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622232554	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622232555	I wonder if we could have a few words about what taxes we are dealing with, among other things. I'm talking about. Charges on plastic bags: If it has turned into a great ideological victory for some of us, we will gladly take it home. I actually thought there was a broad consensus that it is a very good idea to tax some of what we need less, for example. plastic. What other tax was increased by the Finance Act? Yes, cigarette prices did. I was aware of both a broad political desire, with broad political support, for cigarette prices to rise. Should we not, in order to make this discussion relevant to those who are listening, also have a turn on what kind of charges we are, among other things. Talk about? And then for the fact that you just want to make the public sector bigger: yes, we chose to give priority to psychiatry. Yes, we did so together because some of our most vulnerable people in this country need better daily life and better health care. I just have to understand: the money allocated to psychiatry must be saved?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622232700	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622232701	So, listen, the Finance Act made all Danes poorer. They went to elections for less poverty in Denmark, less child poverty, and even the poorest families for children became poorer as a result of the Finance Act. And it didn't really matter because the psychiatry got better. That's fair enough, that's honest talk. But then you just have to say it on the part of the government. And when New Citizens gets worried when the Liberal Alliance gets worried about looking forward, it is because we do not want a financial law following a crisis that contains a lot of taxes that make Danes poorer, to improve part of the public sector. But if that is the government's priority, it is fair enough, but of course we ask for it and do it in a critical way. That is our task.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622232739	Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622232741	But excuse me, isn't that too easy? Because when you make those speeches, you have to tell the Danes today: what is to be saved in the public sector? We are happy to acknowledge, for example, that a majority of the Members of the European Parliament will vote in favour of this report. chose to stop the savings on education. Now we are again, what we did not know at the time, in a time of crisis, when perhaps the most important thing we can do is to invest this country out of the crisis, which of course requires us, among other things, to invest this country out of the crisis. is committed to training. If you do not want to do what we did together, some of us, in the latest financial law, does this mean that you want to save on education, to take another example?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622232825	Then it's Mrs. Sophie Løhde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622232825-2	Thank you. I would like to follow up on the question that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen asked, but there was no real answer to which. Because I have also read Berlingske, where you can read that the Prime Minister feels called to make a call for an increased degree of responsibility and honesty in Danish politics. Wasn't it now, then, that the Prime Minister should start grabbing his own bosom? We have lost 7 years of employment growth in three months. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister throws any financial responsibility overboard by insisting that, in the midst of an economic crisis, we should just start introducing a new early retirement scheme by the back door and send a lot of healthy people into retirement and thus withdraw them from the labour market. So if I were to make a call to the Prime Minister for an increased degree of honesty and responsibility, it would sound like: What about grasping your own bosom and recognising that the expensive promises made by the Prime Minister to the Danes are not affordable, and certainly not in a serious economic crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622232936	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622232937	I am probably constantly amazed at the fact that one can take so lightly some problems that real people experience in their real lives. There is no reasonable reason for one to hear such casually in the Parliamentary Chamber that a government will simply send healthy people into retirement when it comes to people who have worked longer on the Danish labour market than the questioner has lived; who have worn and dragged, worked out during the day and night and may have been subjected to a long, far harder working life than any politician is going to experience; who has been worn out by, in fact, just living up to what the Danish society is based on, namely right and duty; and who today stands and is worn out and perhaps in pain. Can it not be said that we have someone in this country who is worn out, who cannot get help and who has to wear and drag themselves through the last few years into the labour market, and that they may have deserved at least a better conversation about them?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622233051	Mrs. Sophie Løhde, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622233052	The Left does not believe that worn-out people in Denmark should work. That is why we introduced a senior pension, agreed widely across the political centre, and took responsibility for it. However, I wish the Prime Minister would now also begin to answer the questions that we quite openly ask in this Chamber. I can read further in the article and quote the Prime Minister:... Although no one can soberly claim that they know which fall we look into and what the long-term consequences will be. If it is true what the Prime Minister is saying here, namely that no one can soberly claim, how can the Prime Minister seriously believe that it is financially responsible to introduce a new early retirement scheme by the back door, which everyone can see there is no afford in an economic crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622233135	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622233137	However, I know that the Left was against this before the Corona hit before the election of the European Parliament, and you have to take responsibility for the policy that has been pursued. The last time there was an economic crisis, it was chosen to try to solve it by not really sticking to the social contract that has made Denmark the strongest. We want to go another way. And, yes, we're gonna have to make tough priorities. And no, no one can do exactly as you imagined before the crisis. It does not change the fact that some people have been left behind, among other things. Because of the policy of the Left, some of us have to clean up the mess.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622233218	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622233220	Now I am trying to see whether the Prime Minister will answer the question which first the Chairman of the Left, Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, asked, and most recently Mrs Sophie Løhde asked. The Prime Minister answered Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. But how, Prime Minister? In view of the economic situation described by the Prime Minister himself in Berlingske, how will the Prime Minister finance the introduction of a new pre-retirement salary? And let us assume that it costs the order of 16 billion. kr.; at least that was what the former early retirement cost to the Treasury. So crown to crown, 16 billion. kr.: How will the Prime Minister finance it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622233322	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622233323	Now, actually, I almost don't know if I'm gonna laugh or I'm gonna cry. I mean, how on earth can you ask me and others from the government to answer a completely fictitious question? We do not propose reintroducing the early retirement. We do not have a proposal that costs 16 billion. kr. We are looking at a society and a labour market • at some good Danish solid employees, who have been worn out by going to work after a very long working life. We want to give them a dignified withdrawal. We made that very clear before the elections. Our estimate is that it can be done within 3 billion. kr. a year, not 16 billion. kr. Of course, when we make our proposal, it is financed crown-to- kroner, just as a government should. Perhaps I could ask about the halving of VAT, which has been a long-standing Left proposal: how is it actually to be financed? Has there ever been a proposal in the debate at any time, one day or so, on how to finance it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622233431	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622233432	As Mrs Sophie Løhde rightly pointed out, worn-out people should not be on the Danish labour market, and that is precisely why we helped to introduce the senior pension scheme. It may well be that the Prime Minister is not suggesting that an early retirement scheme should be introduced which costs exactly the same as the early retirement scheme on which the Prime Minister has put the signature was abolished. It cost about 16 billion. kr., when it was introduced, and the Prime Minister says and emphasizes that the regime that the government wants to introduce must be financed crown to crown. But where should the money come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622233514	Thank you. Then we need answers from the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622233516	It is actually an interesting statement that has been made here, namely that there is no worn-out person who has to work. Does this mean in the left's optics that there are no employees on the Danish labour market who are worn out that they are already covered by one of the schemes that are? After all, we have to deal with what is really too far away for many Danish employees. As I said before, when we make our proposal, it is of course financed crown to crown. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622233558	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622233559	Thank you. After all, Denmark must have a new rape law, a consent law. The Prime Minister has also confirmed this in this Chamber. But it is important for Enhedslisten that it not only becomes a consent law of name, but also of benefit. That is why there should be no exceptions. Therefore, I would just like to hear the Prime Minister confirm that inaction can never be interpreted as a yes to sex.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622233632	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622233632-2	First of all, I would like to thank you for the cooperation we have in this area. It has been a discussion over a number of years how we should organise legislation in the field of rape so that it is up to date to protect the victims. For very, very many years, we have found that not enough is being convicted, to put it bluntly, there is the cause of rape, which is one of the worst attacks a human being can suffer. Then there have been a number of debates, discussions and meetings on exactly what the legislation should look like. As I understand it, within the circle of the legal rapporteurs for the parties who are behind this, and the government has not been able to agree on exactly what that legislation should look like, and we must then stay on the other side of the summer break. Because the legislation needs to be put in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622233720	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622233721	Thank you. However, despite these negotiations, the Prime Minister must have a position on what such a law should look like. The Social Democratic Party, the Prime Minister's own party, has, since Enhedslisten put forward the proposal for the first time, actually supported it. So I would like to ask once again: does the Prime Minister think that inaction in, for example, the United States is not enough? a relationship where there is mental violence and there is therefore the same act, for example. Once a week, without anyone saying stop, or without anyone saying quit, can be interpreted as a yes?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622233800	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622233800-2	Now I do not want to go into a specific example. And right away mental violence is said as a premise for that question, the conclusion also gives itself. Then there is a misguided relationship of power, and then it is obvious to believe and imagine and to base itself on the fact that there may also be sexual abuse. What must be our task is to ensure that victims of rape are properly protected by the law and that, as a perpetrator, you cannot hide behind the word that may have been chosen or not been elected. We did not achieve this before the summer break, and we have a very strong and great commitment to securing it together after the summer break.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622233844	Then it's Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622233845	Thank you. The Prime Minister is clearly annoyed by these questions about how to finance the new early retirement scheme. I also wondered why the Prime Minister, in his speech in the Constitution, spoke about the usual arguments here in the Folketing, and that is, I understand, the Prime Minister's expression of the political debate we have here today. When we come up with each one of our positions and each one of our views, the Prime Minister calls it quarrels... well, in an annoyance to have to defend the various political ideas here. We ask calmly how the Prime Minister will finance a new kind of early retirement scheme. It is, in fact, a very simple question. The Prime Minister, who knows it costs 3 billion. kr., I understand, must then be able to tell you where it is that the money needs to be picked up. Yes, of course it should be financed crown to crown, that goes without saying, but where should the money be taken for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622233951	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622233953	First of all, I would like to correct the misunderstanding that I should be irritated or dissatisfied with discussing the right to a previous pension. That is by no means the case. In other words, it is the Social Democrats who have put this on the political agenda in many ways. I am surprised that a question has been asked as to how we should finance something that costs 16 billion. kr., when that is not the case. We have not said that at any time, and that is not what we are going to propose. And no, it is not the case that the government for the next three years at the moment and at this stage can put forward how exactly we intend to finance our proposal. In contrast to the previous government, however, it is also financed when we put policy forward, and this will of course be the case. Then I still think we owe it, if nothing else, so respect for the people and for what we are talking about, instead of the thing of just sweeping it off the rails and saying healthy people. Could it not be said that some of the people who have built Denmark and who have done everything they should and who deserve a little more dignity in their departure from the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622234052	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622234053	It is precisely for those we have introduced a senior pension benefit because we think it is important that there is a good offer and a good help for those who become worn out in the labour market. We are in a huge economic crisis. We keep talking about how to get the wheels going and how to deal with the economic challenges we have. We just got unemployment figures. What we see is violent, compared to people who lack a job. And then the Prime Minister will drag even more people out of the labour market and onto a public service, but without telling how it is to be financed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622234130	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622234132	I think it is important to say that this is about people who cannot continue to work and who today may be forced to do so, because others actively chose to work against the pre-retirement wage, which in the past was a safeguard against some, at least in our view, unworthy of leaving the labour market. In other words, there has been a policy in the past which has created problems that have not been taken into account in order to clean up. That is why this is one of the tasks that we intend to undertake and which I think is always one of the most important, also in terms of sending out the clear signal that there is a fair withdrawal for all groups in this society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622234214	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622234216	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his reply. I think it has been very much mentioned that there will soon be summer holidays, and the Prime Minister has said to a newspaper that it is not certain that there will be so much summer holidays for the Prime Minister, because an EU budget has to be negotiated and that it is of course very important for the government to make Denmark's influence felt there. The question then is whether we can be confident that the Prime Minister will use the summer break to negotiate a budget which seems to involve some rather powerful extra bills for Denmark. According to the Minister for Finance, the Commission's proposal suggests an extra bill of 6.7 billion. kr. Annually to the Danes 6,7 billion. kr. Even if it is not, there is a huge bill on the table for the Danish population, which we have to pay to southern Europe and which we have to pay for people who have had excessive consumption in various ways. What is the Prime Minister's position on this situation, and who is going to pay the bill that the Danes get?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622234323	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622234328	One can of course hope that, in a general cooperative spirit, we, who are to be at work part of the summer holiday, will be given a loving thought if we ourselves have the opportunity to take a little holiday along the way. After all, our position is that which we have been asserting for a long time now. Europe needs a recovery fund after corona. It must show solidarity. We still think that it is a fundamental sensible principle that, if you start debt and have access to debt, you also pay it back. With regard to the budget, which is, after all, a seven-year budget, we believe what we have meant all the way through: if Europe is also starting to modernise its own budget, what is needed in agriculture, for example, we do not need as much a budget as the Commission has put forward. This is true, for example. also when we look at the number of kroner and pennies or euros you want to spend on administrative expenditure. So what we are going to negotiate with is to reduce the overall budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622234432	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622234433	I'd like the Prime Minister to come a little closer. In fact, I believe that the Danish people are pretty concerned that the Prime Minister is also saying to a newspaper today that we are now going to take care of the money, which we fully agree with from the Danish People's Party. Why, then, is it that the European Union suddenly has to have extra money, too, as a gift? 'Cause it's not just loans. Perhaps the government's original position was that it should be, but it has been changed along the way. So now we are talking about gift schemes and now we are talking about a substantially increased budget. Who's gonna fund it? Does the government insist that it should not cost the Danes dearly?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622234513	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622234515	First of all, I am delighted that we have a broad mandate in the Folketing behind the government when it comes to negotiating. It is not as wide as we would have liked. Personally, I am very sorry that the Left has left European political cooperation for a while, and I hope that we will find what has been in force for decades, which may not have included the Danish People's Party, but many other parties, namely that responsibility for European policy is shared. There is a reason why we are fighting for a smaller budget, and it is that we believe that we can carry out the tasks we jointly have, with a budget that is considerably smaller than what the Commission has proposed. And that is the Danish position.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622234556	It's Marie Bjerre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622234557	I understand the PM's special advisor and Chief of Staff have resigned. He's got a new handsome position as a lobbyist or Communications Manager in Danfoss, but he has to continue until the end of August, and he still needs working hours, I understand, so he doesn't stop right away. I have to say that I am very surprised. It must be quite obvious that your interests change when a contract is signed for a new job. Martin Rossen is the most powerful politically appointed official we have had and is even beyond democratic control. I understand that he resigns from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Coordination Committee, but he still has access to confidential information. Does the Prime Minister not see any difficulty in his continuing even though he has been given a new job as a lobbyist?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622234650	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622234651	I would like to say two things. Firstly, I do not think that specific staff issues should be discussed in the Assembly. I do not think so in any context, and of course not here either. And I would also like to say that I do not actually see any problem at all, as in Denmark, in moving from being a member of the central administration or, for that matter, a political party to one of, I would like to say here, Denmark's most important companies. On the contrary, I think there is reason to welcome the fact that those who work hard for our people's rule and who have made a significant contribution to our country can move to different jobs, and I hope that this will also apply in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622234745	Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622234746	It is, of course, relevant to discuss it here in the Parliamentary Chamber. Martin Rossen is the most powerful political official appointed. And then I don't understand why the Prime Minister doesn't see that there are any problems. Danfoss is a major international player on thermostats, on solar and wind energy, so there are obvious interests in the climate negotiations that are going on and on, and not least in the preparation of the forthcoming Finance Act. But if the Prime Minister does not believe that there are currently problems of viability, it may be that the Prime Minister can answer if he does not at least appear. That is precisely what the rules are, namely that you must appear capable.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622234829	Thank you. Then we need an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622234831	As a matter of principle, I think it is quite wrong to discuss named employees in the central administration of the Parliamentary Assembly in principle. Having said that, do I really think that questions of principle arise when, for example, a head of department in the central administration quits his job and gets an appointment in an important company, because should he stop working for the government in office at all times? That's an interesting perspective. That would be incredibly against me, and my clear assessment is that it would make the work of changing governments considerably worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622234910	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622234911	Thank you for that, and I would like to ask you something that I hope can cheer up the Prime Minister a little, because in these debates we have typically discussed training ceilings and minimum standards, what has ended happily, but what has sometimes been a bit awkward to the Prime Minister. Something I know the Prime Minister loves is less bureaucracy and proposals that cost nothing. That is why I have just had the idea, which has actually been an idea for some time, that a reform of freedom for the Danish primary school should be carried out. My guess is that we can get a significantly better primary school for exactly the same money. It's not because I don't want to spend more money at the primary school, but by setting it free, I actually think we can teach the students more, make sure they thrive better, and I also think that corona has shown it: shorter days, children who thrive better, because the teams are smaller, more time for the individual student. Was it not time now to set the public schools free instead of keeping them in the iron grip that has been held them for many years?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622235013	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622235014	I think that is quite right, and I also said it in my opening speech today, that many people in the public sector have had very good experiences during corona. Processes have been written out of planning. There haven't been so many middle layers you've had to ask permission. The Folketing has not interfered in the same way as we usually have very good experiences. I think it is important to be very careful to conclude that all children have thrived during the education that has been under corona. Many of our most vulnerable children have had considerably worse schooling and there has been insufficient attention to their problems. So the picture cannot be drawn as general, but the conclusion of giving more freedom to professionalism applies here and as in other areas of the public sector. We share that basically, but of course it always has to be with the very, very clear purpose that more children have to learn more and thrive better, and that is where I think trust is a key word.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622235113	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622235114	I agree with that, and I believe that the way to it can be many. One school may need to run school in one way in a exposed residential area, but inside the city, where there is a strong tradition of association life, it may be quite different. Why have we convinced ourselves that one size fits all when it comes to the Danish primary school? Why can it not be that one place one should go to school for an hour shorter, but in turn have more open school or have more close cooperation with the association life, while another is more like a full day school? Why don't we give this freedom to the public schools? This reminds us of some of the freedom that the Prime Minister has previously spoken about in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622235150	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622235151	It is quite true that if you want to make me in a good mood in a political debate, you should point to less bureaucracy, because, as we have discussed this before, we have overbureaucraticised our public sector and not achieved the results that were used to justify the bureaucracy that has taken place. I also very, very basically agree that we cannot sit and detail everything in the smallest detail. We just have to stick to the fact that some of the rules we have introduced over time have been done for a good reason, for example. that in the past there have been too many vulnerable children who have not learned to read and write and count, and that goal is still the most important thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622235230	Ellen Trane Nørby, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622235231	Thank you. I would really like to return to the Prime Minister's failure to answer the question of how to finance a new early retirement scheme. When I ask about this, it is because we have introduced a senior pension, so that the citizens who have had a long working life have been worn out and need to retire early, of course can retire early. And that's the group that the Prime Minister keeps talking about, but they're covered. So now that you want to finance the fact that everyone else can go on pre-retirement, I also think that the Prime Minister owes not only the Folketing, but also the people, an answer to how it should be financed and what it is then that should not be spent on. Because you can only spend the money once, as the Prime Minister says. So is it the minimum standards, is it the school area, or is it higher taxes? Who's gonna fund this? I really would like to ask the Prime Minister about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622235328	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622235330	Point that we have prepared for today's debate and said that we will agree to say three things: we have to say early retirement, we have to say financing, and we have to say that the question is not answered. Points for that, but that does not necessarily bring us to a place where we are wiser, either on the content or on the matter of what the Left wants to do. The answer on our part remains the same. When we present our pension proposal, it is fully funded. One has to wait a while to see how we finance it. We're gonna put that forward. I have given that answer now and then. Now it may be that the rapporteur of the Left will answer just one question. When you can say now that it is pretty fresh, I would say that everyone who is worn out is covered by the senior pension scheme, are you quite sure that it lasts? In other words, will one stand today and claim or, for that matter, guarantee or promise that everyone who is worn out is covered by the system that already exists today? And on what basis can this be said?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622235427	Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622235429	Well, I think it's too bad the PM is gonna get mad now too. I understand that one would prefer to describe such a soft, cute animal, which is black and white, if one would like an answer from the Prime Minister today. But I would actually like to try again: how is it to be financed? That's a simple question. The Prime Minister has just given a big, big interview to Berlingske, where the Prime Minister puts on the glasses of concern and says that there isn't enough money to do it all, and I guess you've almost got billions of blindness and whatever else is. Well, it's a very simple question, Madam Prime Minister. How is this to be financed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622235504	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622235506	If there are still listeners to this debate, I hope you just heard what happened here. You repeat a question I've answered. One may be unhappy with the answer, one may disagree with the answer, but nevertheless there is the answer. And you completely avoid dealing with the people it's about. It is quite reasonable to have an economic discussion, and it will come. When we propose our funding, there will be some who agree and some who disagree it is quite fair. But these are some people we're talking about. And it is actually amazing that you can speak so many times with exactly the same speech line, without at any time having to say that this labour market and this Parliament has unfortunately meant that there are people who have been run down by going to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622235552	Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622235556	Prime Minister Then we'll take it one more time, Martin Come on! ) Yes, I can guarantee the Prime Minister that we do. Because that's exactly what it does, that is, it's about people. The Prime Minister is a popular person, so there are many who listen to the Prime Minister. And I think they would like a reply from the Prime Minister as to where that money is to come from, because the Prime Minister has put something in store for the people here. And basically, there are two boxes, so there are two places the money can come from. One place they can come from is that you reduce the public service elsewhere... it may be hospitals, it may be mr. Jacob Mark's minimum ratings that go for a ride. The other place is from higher taxes and charges. It's no more complicated, Prime Minister. And the people for whom the Prime Minister speaks fervently and about what I can understand, I think, in fact, somewhere is entitled to a reply from the Prime Minister, in relation to how the Prime Minister wants to finance what she wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622235657	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622235658	Now we actually got a little closer to it. And in this way it was very good that there were ten people to speak, because now there is beginning to be an understanding of those people. Somehow, it's a little bit of progress here at midnight. It's almost such a cinderella story, where we just get to it before things change in the fairy tale. Because if you understand these people, you do understand that the Social Democrats want to improve their conditions in the last few years on the labour market. When we put forward our proposal, it will be fully funded just as has been said repeatedly. Then maybe we could round one last question. For last year, the Left did not, as I know, put forward a draft budget. There was no funding for the initiatives that were intended to be promoted. Are we gonna see one of these in the fall?
ParlaMint-DK_20200622235747	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622235748	I do not think that we have come a little closer to what I was actually trying to bring to the Chamber here, partly to myself, but perhaps also to those who are sitting and watching this debate, i.e. a reply from the Prime Minister to how the Prime Minister in general intended to finance what she wanted to do. 'Cause otherwise people out there can sit around and think: This is kind of just birds on the roof. Well, basically they lack two answers here, Prime Minister. It's about: when what the Prime Minister wants to come and how the Prime Minister intended to finance it. Well, politics isn't tough either, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622235826	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622235826-2	In relation to the questions about where the Danes are and what they think about the latter, one should be careful to interpret it. We are going to present our proposal for a right to a previous pension after the summer break. And I actually think, and here, of course, I can be wrong that there is a really great understanding among the Danes that we haven't achieved everything yet in the first year. And think, I actually think there are a lot of Danes who also sit and think: How good it is that the Prime Minister and the government gave priority to the fight against corona and thus saved some of the other important political issues to a later date I think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200622235904	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623235906	Thank you so much. Now to another question. I note that the Prime Minister stressed in his statement that the great plans we heard about in the opening speech, which for Corona reasons have not come into being, have not been forgotten at all. And I really appreciate that for a number of reasons. There are several of the PM's key issues, which are also New Citizens'. We want the sick and worn out of the job centres so that they can receive dignified treatment and be free from the humiliating resource sequences and zealous municipal case managers. As you know, we would very much like to help put an end to spontaneous asylum, and a proximity reform, which the Prime Minister has talked about on several occasions, is also at the heart of New Citizens' policy. On the last point, I would like to ask the Prime Minister how the government will approach this work so that we can move influence and power back to the close communities, allow the professionals to use their competences and clear out the excess of unnecessary rules and laws.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623000019	Thank you for that! Then we get the answer from the PM. Here you go, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-DK_20200623000020	Thank you. That's right. This review shows that there is quite a lot in addition to the management of corona that we should be able to work together on, also in the future. We look forward to it. To the specific question of how we will see our ideas about a proximity reform in relation to the public sector, the first example should, in our view at least, be the multi-annual police agreement we are about to make, hopefully also jointly here in the Parliamentary Assembly. The police have a great many tasks, and I am pleased with the very fine words about the Danish police that have been said in the Chamber today. After all, we are convinced that we must bring the police closer to the Danes again. In respect of the many different tasks that are involved, we need a police force closer to home, not least, for example. in relation to violence and some of the problems that are also in vulnerable residential areas. So it could be an obvious place to start, we think.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623000121	Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623000122	Thank you so much for your answer. I am very pleased to hear that the Prime Minister is genuinely concerned about doing something about centralisation, which has weakened something that was previously very strong in Denmark, namely civil society. Then the timetable remains. Can the Prime Minister lift the veil a little bit of what we can expect from progress in relation to a proximity reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623000151	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623000151-2	What is our idea is that the proximity reform has different faces, objectives and content depending on what we are talking about in the public sector. We'll start with the police after the summer break. Here it is natural for us to start. We've already spoken some primary school. The health service has also experienced what it means to be allowed to use more professionalism and, moreover, interdisciplinaryism under corona. So here, too, some of these thoughts will need to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623000226	Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623000227	Thank you. I would like to return to the discussion about the Prime Minister's politically appointed Chief of Staff, because it is not only the Left that can find this problematic. Transparency International has said and now I quote: The problem is that in the coming months Rossen will have a leg in both camps, in the private sector and in the executive, in other words the government. In other words, in these months there is a danger that Martin Rossen will fall into a conflict of interest. Can the Prime Minister really not understand that some people may be sitting out there seeing that there are opportunities for a conflict of interest, and why does the Prime Minister want to make himself vulnerable to that criticism? So one supplementary question: why is Transparency International mistaken in their criticism of the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623000310	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623000311	The last thing I have no idea of is that you do, but I think you should also consider what the Left is actually in the process of either implying or deciding. Let us take the example from before: Department heads in Denmark have direct access to the government's central committee. Some of them are actually permanent members. We have a number of examples in recent years of departmental managers who, fortunately, have achieved even very good positions outside the central administration. Do those people have to stop their work immediately in the event of employment elsewhere? That would, of course, weaken the central administration and hence the political decisions in Denmark quite enormously.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623000414	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623000414-2	Now we are getting a little into the core of the problem, which has been in this whole matter of the politically appointed Chief of Staff, namely that the Prime Minister's first defense is to compare the person concerned with a Head of Department. But he's not the head of the department. After all, he has been politically appointed by the Prime Minister as a kind of Deputy Prime Minister, and this really shows the whole problem here, namely that the Prime Minister can make up his defence to compare it with a Head of Department. So back to the heart of the question: Will the Prime Minister recognise that situations may arise during the summer when the Chief of Staff will be able to find a conflict of interest between the company in which he or she has been employed and the interests of the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623000455	Thank you, and we'll get an answer from the Prime Minister! Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623000456	Well, there was no defense in it. I'm just asking one question: what is it you're really doing? For of course, the Folketing and changing governments must always be aware of the problems of viability. Yeah, yeah, yeah, but we have to do that in every possible context. And that is where management and, moreover, in relation to common sense, we have to separate things from each other. All I ask is that, in its eagerness to discuss some specific issues, we also relate to the principle, and we certainly have a very great interest in Denmark in people being able to change jobs and also sectors.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623000533	Ole Birk Olesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623000535	Social democracy entered the election campaign with a message that there were people in Denmark who had too low an disposable income, actually so low that they were poor. Then it was thought that the government and the red majority in the Folketing would do something about it with the new Finance Act. But the government and the red majority in the Folketing did exactly the opposite. The people you said were poor in the election campaign made you even poorer by reducing their disposable income even more with taxes on some of the products they use. I understand the Prime Minister's response to Mr. Simpson's question. Alex Vanopslagh, that it was okay to break the election promise and also to make people who were claimed to be poor even poorer, because they spend the money to stop a saving on education and on better psychiatry. But I would still like to know whether the Prime Minister will reply this time on whether this is a course that is intended to continue for the budget law for 2021? So, are the people that the government has already made poorer to be even poorer by 2021?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623000643	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623000644	In other words, it is hard to say that it was not uncommonly well known to the Danes that, before the last elections, and now also in the year that has soon passed, we wanted to give priority to the welfare society. We have, of course, made this clear in every conceivable way and in every conceivable context. Yes, we think it is right to cover the demographic trait. When more elderly people and more children arrive, the answer from the Danish Parliament should not be savings in the municipalities as a starting point for budgeting. And yes, in the new political majority we think it was a good idea to stop the savings in education and to strengthen psychiatry. And yes, it meant in the first financial law we made that a number of taxes were raised. But to claim that it has not been well known to the Danes, I think it is a rather gross enchantment. When it comes to the forward-looking tax issue, we have no desire to raise taxes in general. But, for example, in the autumn we will have to discuss a green tax reform, and that is where we have to expect taxes to change.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623000755	Then it'll be mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623000756	So, there were no Danes who in the election campaign thought that the groups that Social Democracy and Enhedslisten and SF talked about were poor, and which the Social Democracy, SF and Enhedslisten wanted to make richer, they would actually make even poorer than they said they were. There was no and no matter that the parties have spent the money on making the public sector more expensive, there are still some voters who have been cheated by the red majority because you have done the opposite of what you said in the election campaign. But do you have to understand that you won't next time? The budget bill for 2021 will not make all Danes poorer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623000836	Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623000836-2	I must admit that the idea of higher cigarette prices was not exactly born in my backyard. I've tried different models around the age group and something like that... I guess it wasn't right in the closet... and that's why I was already in the election campaign where I said that's the way it's going. And there are some advantages to this, and I have to admit that as far as public health is concerned. I also think that there are some challenges to the social balance, but it was, after all, a discussion that we had already in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623000918	Then it's mr. Nils Sjøberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623000919	Thank you. Everyone in this parliament decided to shut down, and I would like to ask: what will the Prime Minister do to ensure a return to a democratic normal state after the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623000933	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623000934	Two more things: firstly, I am one of those who believe that democracy has demonstrated its strength. A great many broad political agreements have been made. The Folketing and thus the parliament have been working overtime throughout this period, either giving their support or helping to find solutions together. It is democracy when it is most powerful. So basically I do not buy the premise that democracy has been put out of effect in any respect in relation to corona. Secondly, in some places we have needed legislation that would have looked different if it had not been because we had been in a global pandemic, and there is, of course, much to think about what powers and means should be available during the period we are going into now. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623001020	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623001021	Thank you. We need to use the experience we have gained from this crisis. It could be a new one. Are there any considerations about changes that the Prime Minister will make or something that the Prime Minister will do in a different way if similar legislation is to be made some other time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623001036	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623001037	That's a pretty big question. There I think I will give a fairly open answer. After all, it is no secret that part of the legislation that was to be put into place was urgent legislation and that, as the word also indicates, what was done very quickly, and indeed on a basis that was somewhat more frugal than what is now the case, as the questioner also suggests. So we would very much like to enter into a discussion with an open mind about what legislation should look different in the future. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623001112	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623001113	Thank you for that, President. I'd like to come back to this earlier withdrawal. After all, it is no secret that one of the reasons why it is necessary to look at early retirement is the welfare settlement of 2006, when the retirement age was raised. There will now be a legislative proposal in the autumn to decide whether we should increase further to 69 years in 2035. But what remains is when the government comes up with that proposal, and if we are not there, the more the retirement age increases, the more topical will be the old proposal by the Danish People's Party that there should be a differentiated retirement age, that is to say different retirement age, depending on how long you have been in the labour market. That is again the fact that we recognise quite openly that there are a lot of people who cannot work until they are 70, they cannot work until they are 72, and when will they be entitled to a pension? We've made senior pensions, but when is this early retirement coming, because a lot of people are waiting for that? Arne's on early retirement, so it's not him.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623001225	Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623001226	How nice that we now come to a discussion about the people it is about and with a recognition from both the questioner and the answerer that there is a group that cannot just keep working. That is, of course, part of the main content of this discussion, which was completely removed from the discussion that was before. And yes, we will have to deal again in the autumn with the welfare settlement, and that is where we think it would be both right and natural that, at the same time as it relates to the introduction of a right to a previous pension, I can hear that in the basic approach to this, Mr. I guess Bent Bøgsted and myself aren't that far apart.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623001313	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623001314	Oh, no, but it's just that the longer it takes, the more speculations begin to go on whether the government can at all put forward a system that is to be administered. That is what many people are asking, and I am sure that the Prime Minister has also been asked that question. But is it possible, and perhaps it is not something quite different to look at? Should we stop this increase in retirement age, or should we make a differentiated retirement age according to how long we have been on the labour market? It may well be that there are two or three or four different retirement ages to be addressed, and it may also be difficult to manage, but we do not yet know what the government really wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623001354	Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623001355	We believe that we must stick to the welfare settlement, because it is a very, very important engine in the Danish economy, and that is in many ways the prerequisite for us to have been able to do what we have done in this spring. In our view, however, it must then be supplemented by a right to an earlier withdrawal to those who are most worn out. That is what has been our approach all the way through, and we look forward to discussing this with, among others. Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623001425	Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623001426	On 4 June there was a debate here in the Parliamentary Chamber where the Socialist financial rapporteur on the question of economic policy replied: Social democracy has no intention of raising taxes. Then I just need to know if the Prime Minister has any plans to raise taxes to finance the scheme she's talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623001449	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623001450	We do not have a general desire to raise taxes. We have a desire to pursue an economic policy in Denmark that is targeted at the recovery of the Danish economy in relation to corona, and then, of course, to ensure what is our pointers, namely that it should be financially responsible, that it should be socially fair and that it should be green. And it is a little bit strange that, before we agree that we have to make a green tax reform, we are so concerned about designating a single tax instead of taking a stand on the task we have jointly set ourselves, namely to make a whole change in our tax system, so that we support the green transition to which many parties have committed themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623001542	Here you go, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623001544	But the reason I ask is that the funding of the Socialist election promise was an extra tax of 11⁄2 billion. kr. Now it was perhaps formulations with a great deal of rubber band in from the Prime Minister. However, the Prime Minister excludes rising taxes for 11⁄2 billion. kr. to finance that proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623001610	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623001611	We stand by what we went to the polls. And yes, we also went to the polls that some selected taxes could be set up. So it is clear that, in the situation we are in now, we are, of course, obliged, like everyone else, to reconsider everything, including phase-in, profile: what kind of taxes would be sensible to work with in this situation, including the green tax reform that we have now agreed to implement?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623001641	Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623001643	Thank you. The Corona crisis has hit a huge hole in the box. We can then welcome the fact that there was a good left-wing government ahead of the last elections, which ensured that a good, responsible economic policy was pursued, so there is something to resist. We have all been able to lean on this now that the various packages had to be run through by a broad majority. Then it is also time for what I can also understand that the Prime Minister himself has signalled that now we must again start to make more of a good, responsible economic policy, where, at least as I understand it, there must be a balance between revenue and expenditure. And there's gonna be a way there. Shouldn't it be a good custom, then, that when you come up with new proposals we now want to have it and through it, then, of course, you point to funding? Otherwise, it's kind of just going on and saying, "Well, now the box is open, and then we're gonna have to take it and that too. And that is not responsible economic policy. So briefly: has the government left the responsible economic policy and just drives out there for as long as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623001744	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623001745	So, far into that question, everything was said right, and we fully agree with that. I think it is important to say that when the Danish economy has such a good starting point and a good starting point for the crisis we are now in, then it is probably changing governments and changing political majority decisions over many years that have created the foundation. Low public debt is something that has been provided over a long period of time, a low interest rate. We do not thus have a direct impact on high employment, low unemployment, a workforce that is competent and skilled, the Danish labour market model, flexicurity and a number of other elements. And with the words that have been spoken from Mr. Erling Bonnesen, it also seems that we have the prerequisite for further progress in at least parts of the economic policy which will also be necessary for Denmark in the longer term.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623001850	Sir. Erling Bonnesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623001851	Well, I would like to extend it to say several previous governments, and since the Left has led, I think, it is 14 out of the last 18-20 years, something like that, it is so put in place. But the Prime Minister forgot to reply to what I actually asked about: whether the current government has completely abandoned what we call good, classic, solid fiscal policy with control of the economy. And I really wonder why it has to be so difficult for the Prime Minister to come and say it. Of course, if new proposals are made, they also provide funding. So if the PM doesn't do it, then it's kind of opening up to regular slings.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623001930	Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623001931	I think I've said it 17 times here in the last two hours, and I've meant it every time and I'm going to mean it forward. Perhaps I could just get an answer to just one question: the halving of VAT, how does the Left intend to finance it? It is strange that the most costly proposal of all those who have been brought to the table has not been able to answer a single time how to finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623002000	Then it's mr. Kristian Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623002002	First of all, I would like to start by correcting the Prime Minister: the Left, of course, has always presented, when we have been in opposition, a draft budget which all government-supporting parties should submit in my view. But it was the Prime Minister's party that deviated from the tradition when the Prime Minister became president of the party. When we in the Left ask about the Prime Minister's dream of introducing a new early retirement scheme, it is, of course, because the Prime Minister has just chosen to introduce it with a financing of rising taxes and taxes. And I have become more and more concerned here tonight every time the Prime Minister has said that there is no general There are no general plans. So I would like to ask: what specific tax increases are there to finance the new early retirement scheme that the Prime Minister would like to see?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623002059	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623002100	At the beginning of March, when it was clear to this government what it was that we were facing and could potentially face, we also made a very, very clear choice, for which I am fully committed, namely that during a period of time we did not know how long we would override a number of political issues and tasks in order to devote ourselves to what was the most important task of this year, namely the handling of corona. I think it was a good thing that we made that decision, and I think that, as I said earlier, there is really reason to rejoice at what we have achieved together. This means, of course, that there are a number of political tasks that we have not achieved at the time when we expected it. This also applies to previous withdrawal. And so it is that now we have got the infection under control, we have saved lives, the health care has not collapsed; we stand a better one than we had dared to hope for. After the summer break, we are putting forward our ideas for earlier withdrawal, including funding. We're not getting any closer tonight.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623002206	Sir. Kristian Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623002206-2	It was good that a number of initiatives were taken, a number of temporary initiatives were also put forward proposals that were not adopted, such as: The Left's wish for a temporary halving of the VAT and all that was financed by drawing on the Treasury. Just as the Left also pointed out that one could because it was just temporary. But the Prime Minister has a dream of a new permanent early retirement scheme, and that is why I ask what funding is needed. For permanent expenditure must find permanent funding. And otherwise I shall hear: can we get a promise that it will not be with taxes and taxes on Danish financial institutions that this funding will be found?
ParlaMint-DK_20200623002244	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623002245	I don't have a dream of a new early retirement scheme. If we had a dream about it, if we had a wish, if we had a proposal on it, then that was what we had gone to the polls for. We want something else; we want a right to a previous withdrawal for those who have been longest in the labour market. It is not a new early retirement scheme. Yeah, that's what we want. I am completely on the goal that we have not achieved everything we had planned in this spring because of the management of corona. And I just think I have to say quite quietly that outside this floor, not many people would have thought it was the right priority that we should have completed a number of other tasks. We have concentrated on solving the most important task in due course. After the summer break, our concrete proposals will come, including, of course, the funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623002334	Then we have reached the final question, and that is from Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623002345	Thank you. Now you can get such a late evening hour here at least at times a good mood. I noticed here earlier this evening that Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll pointed out that he actually thought it was a mistake that he had helped introduce an interpretation fee. And the interpretation fee is also something that the Social Democrats have opposed in the past, and so I would just like to hear whether the Prime Minister does not agree that the interpretation fee has no health professional justification whatsoever; that it helps to increase the inequality in health; that it is an administrative burden for the regions and for the individual patient; and that it is often going to put health professionals in an unfortunate dilemma, where you may have to choose to allow relatives to interpret, knowing that it can go beyond the health care that you are going to provide. That's why I just need to know if the Prime Minister might be able to come to the same clear realization as Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll did, namely that it was a mistake to introduce the interpretation fee, and therefore also be willing to abolish it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623002446	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623002447	Well, I would say that for us the interpretation fee is not health policy. For us, a fee is applied to interpretation, for example. in relation to being in the health service, about something quite different, namely that you have to speak Danish when you are in Denmark and that it is absolutely fundamental for integration, for the cohesion and, incidentally, for the fairness of this society, that when you come to Denmark and for one reason or another you have to live here, you also learn our language and do not hold society against interpretation costs, for example. I also think it is important for me to stress that we are not talking about people who have just come to Denmark; we are also talking about people who have been here for decades and who have still not found the opportunity to learn the Danish language. And in fact, I do not think it is fair to ask others to finance an interpretation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623002536	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623002538	I think it makes perfect sense for people to learn the language when they come here to Denmark, but I still miss seeing evidence of that integrational effect that the interpretation fee should have. I often hear it mentioned, but I have just never seen any evidence of it. And should it not basically be the case that if you need help in the Danish healthcare system, you can get it, whether you can speak it or not? I guess it's not a prerequisite for getting help that you know the language. If you need help in health care, then it is a right to be able to do so, regardless of what language skills you now have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623002613	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623002614	Of the various values that can be highlighted, I think, as a Socialist, that right and duty are one of the most important. And that is why we have to take the view that when you come to Denmark and stay here, you have to make the effort to learn the language and that you do not hold others back. And that is what you do when, having been here for many years, you still do not master the Danish language. You just have to remember that anyone who comes here and does not learn the language is asking someone else to go to work and pay taxes so that you can get interpreting assistance. Actually, I don't think that's fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623002653	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Prime Minister Thank you very much). We're done now, and we're gonna vote in a few minutes. It has been called to the vote, and that is why we need to get the Chamber ready for it. I would ask those who are not going to take part in the vote to go to the sidelines. We vote on approx. Two minutes and get ready for this in the hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623002854	Then we shall proceed to the vote. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 96 by Jesper Petersen (S), Morten Østergaard (RV), Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF), Pernille Skipper (EL) and Torsten Gejl (ALT). Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, specified manner). In favour of 52 (S, RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 42 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 1 (Sikandar Siddique (UFG)). Proposal for adoption No V 96 is adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 97 by Jakob Ellemann-Jensen (V), Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Søren Pape Poulsen (KF), Pernille Vermund (NB) and Alex Vanopslagh (LA) and proposals for adoption no. 98 of Sikandar Siddique (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200623003152	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. Parliament's next meeting will not be held tomorrow, as it says here, but today, Tuesday, 23 July, at 9 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
