ParlaMint-DK_20200326120012	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326120030	The items listed as No. 1-7 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. 6 on the agenda, but that the parliamentary group does not wish to vote on whether consent should be given. I shall therefore hear whether others object to consent being given. As that is not the case, I consider the consent as granted It is given.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326120059	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326120119	It's just a super-short comment. For, of course, I support the bill, but it has also made me think about when we are going to formulate policy on recovery packages in the future, if we can then go in and make qualitative demands on the support we as a society provide. The reason I say this is that we are now about to support a travel industry and the aviation industry and put a hand under them, and we must do so, but the green heart thinks it is rather paradoxical that we are now potentially sustaining some industries that we basically want to have a different business model and a different way of acting. So it is just a comment to my good fellow business rapporteurs that I think we will have an important discussion afterwards when we come to the other side and are about to discuss recovery packages, about what kind of premises are involved. So that was just a very brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326120218	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326120228	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. The vote has now been initiated. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' Then everyone has cast their vote. In favour of 98 votes (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against 0 abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326121228	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326121252	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. 2, 1. (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG), against 0, abstained 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326122213	I would ask the draftsmen of the bill to come into the Chamber. No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326122257	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' The vote shall be closed. In favour of 98 votes (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against 0 abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326123148	I would ask the rapporteurs for this bill to come into the Chamber. Then the debate is open and I give the floor to the Socialist Group. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326123219	Thank you. Following the agreement on the Covid-19 initiatives of 19 March concluded by all parties of the Danish Parliament, the Social Democratic Party supports the possibility for municipalities and regions, as well as the State, to enter into agreements with companies on the pre-payment of benefits not yet provided. The Social Democratic Party also supports the possibility for municipalities and regions to refrain from claiming non-compliance if the supplier's default can be attributed to the covid-19 situation. It is essential that, in the current serious situation, both the state, the municipalities and the regions are given the opportunity to show payment flexibility in the purchase of goods and services from the business community, so that the public as a purchaser also helps to hold hands under Danish jobs and the business community. Social democracy can therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326123318	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326123327	Thank you. This is an uncertain and economic time we are in. No one knows what an economic impact the closure of Denmark will have, but we know that it will be felt by everyone. This is also the case in companies, which at the moment both send people home on pay compensation, on forced holidays or dismisses them. So it's a tough economic situation we're in. That is why we have widely agreed on a number of aid packages in the Danish Parliament, and this bill is part of the agreement that a united Parliament landed last week, which will help Danish industry through the crisis. The agreement provided for rules for government procurement, which provided for a derogation for a number of licensing rules for procurement to the State, such as: allows for pre-payment of deliveries so that liquidity can be created here and now. It has already joined through an act of the Danish Parliament's Finance Committee. The legislative proposal we are now debating is then intended to give municipalities and regions the opportunity to pre-pay private suppliers in the same way and thus create liquidity in companies. Specifically, this means that municipalities and regions will be able to pre-pay for deliveries up to 1 July this year with a maximum value of 1 million. kr. and at the same time also allow municipalities and regions not to collect additional money from private suppliers whose default is due to the corona situation. It could, for example, be done. to refrain from charging a penalty for late delivery. So basically, it is about giving the opportunity that the state has already received through the Act of the Finance Committee to the municipalities and regions of the country, and it is again a tool that will help to remedy the acute lack of liquidity in Danish business because of the situation we are in. Of course, we support the fact that we are putting into effect the agreements we have concluded, and this is one element among many, and I do not think, unfortunately, that we have seen the last of them in relation to the situation we are in, but this is at least one of the essential elements in bringing Denmark so carefully through the crisis, and we of course support this on the part of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326123549	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326123555	Thank you for that, President. The Danish People's Party can of course also support the proposal, as it is part of the implementation of an agreement of which all parties of the Folketing are part. These are some arrangements and some derogations granted to the State by previous agreements, and it is now the case that municipalities and regions have the same opportunities. It is important that the public sector also has flexibility in the situation we face. It is also important that the public authorities can make sensible decisions if one can afford to use that expression in relation to the crisis we are facing. So the Danish People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326123630	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Olldag Ollyday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326123639	Thank you so much. Of course, the Radical Left also supports this proposal, which sensibly equates municipalities and regions with the possibility of purchasing practices in this coronatide by relaxing the rules for a period of time. The municipalities take the challenge with their forehead upright, we can see. There is will, courage, creativity and unity out there when you talk to them. It's quite simply fantastic. But there is also a very large difference in how the municipalities approach it: how much they can afford to help, and not least how hard they interpret the rules they are subject to daily. The sports association, the evening school, the cultural institution, the self-serving institution, the section 18 association, which solves large welfare tasks, the small homeworkecafé, the music association, the local business community. And with this proposal we relax on rules so that the municipalities can help the business community, but we still have to give the municipalities better opportunities to also help the associations and institutions which are not helped by the other packages of the Folketing. The municipalities really want it to be them who can feel it the most if the local venue closes or the homecoming café can't pay its rent anymore. And very many municipalities actually help these and have the authority to do so, while other municipalities simply do not have the means to do so. Here I would like to encourage the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior to think even more creatively and find a way together with the rest of the Danish Parliament, in which we help the municipalities to be even better able to help themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326123814	There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the SF, and that is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326123821	Thank you. We must do our best in every way to get out well on the other side of the corona crisis, and this also applies to business, where a number of aid packages have to keep their hands under business. It is therefore also wise when we have decided in the State field that we can prepay for deliveries and/or speed up payments and not apply sanctions where corona has had an impact on incomplete compliance with contracts and agreements. With this bill, the municipalities and the regions are allowed to do the same. We in the SF think this is very wise, and that is why we also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326123908	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326123920	Thank you. It is, of course, an excitingly small proposal on what municipalities and regions may and may not do, and it is in its formulation of the authorisations that it is well expressed in broad terms: rules laid down pursuant to paragraph 1. 1 may derogate from other legislation and rules laid down pursuant thereto. It's really wide. I note, however, that the wordings have been tightened up in relation to the draft that we got to see last night, and the Enhedslisten is very pleased with that. We are also satisfied that agreements concluded before the entry into force of the law are still in force. However, I have a particular consideration on the encouragement of municipalities to maintain normal decisions on the exercise of chain responsibilities, social clauses and apprenticeship agreements also in the case of new tenders. Today, there is just as much need for the kind of regulations on the procurement of services by municipalities and regions as there was yesterday. I certainly hope that the municipalities take this seriously. In the slightly longer term, and the law will apply until March 2021, we also need to think about how we can restore the economy of the municipalities and regions once they have paid a lot of benefits in advance and survived any bankruptcies and the like. In short, we need to talk about the budget law and the economic negotiations. In the budget law, there is a force majeure provision which says that if there are major external events, it seems that this is currently the case, which causes considerable financial losses, one may deviate from the balance sheet requirement. This, of course, concerns the budgeting of the public sector as a whole, but it must also apply to the municipalities and the regions. For me, this means that the government must ensure that it finances the extra costs caused by the corona crisis and that it ensures that the budget law is not an obstacle to our being able to obtain local welfare and to make up for lost time by 2020. I am aware that the Minister for Finance and the Minister for the Interior will be holding a press conference here shortly with KL and Danske Regions. I cannot, of course, know what the precise content of this is, but I strongly hope that it will be possible to relax the plant ceiling in this respect. For then municipalities and regions can take the useful initiatives they need and thus keep the wheels going. I will look forward to hearing the result of that, but I imagine that is the kind of thing it is going to be about. I also imagine that we need to consider when the economic negotiations themselves will take place, because the municipalities will have to provide an overview of their economy before they can enter into any overall negotiations on the coming year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326124202	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party in the Chamber, so the next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326124216	Thank you. This law is, after all, the implementation of an agreement, and in short, it is about the exemptions that can be granted for procurement in the state, also applying to municipalities and regions. This means that municipalities and regions will be able to pre-pay deliveries with a maximum value of 1 million. kr., do not make default clauses, e.g. claims for payment of fines, applicable to suppliers, etc. It makes very good sense that the same rules apply both to the state and to the municipalities and regions, and that is why, of course, we support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326124302	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326124311	As part of the fight against the corona epidemic, we politicians have taken a number of necessary decisions which have made it difficult for Danish companies in certain industries to make really difficult money while fighting the epidemic. Fortunately, we also have the opportunity to be large on the part of the public sector, and this is an expression of this bill, by allowing municipalities, like the State, to pay for goods supplied by private individuals before they are delivered, and also by allowing municipalities not to charge fines in the event that a private supplier has somehow failed to deliver in accordance with the agreement. So instead of the municipalities being zealous, they get the opportunity to be large, and we should be here this time. That's why the Liberal Alliance is backing the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326124411	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the alternative, and that is Mr. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326124419	Thank you. We are currently seeing many companies having difficulty paying their bills. The cost goes on, but the revenue stops. So there are major liquidity problems, and we do many things to try to solve that. In this case, we ensure that regions and municipalities can pay companies in advance of their products in order to create a little extra liquidity and a little extra money in the box, while at the same time we can accept that companies wait a little while to pay some of the bills sent from municipalities and regions. It is all to create a little room in the economy for the next rent and fixed costs until the crisis is over. So we vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326124456	Thank you to the rapporteur for the alternative. Thus, all the rapporteurs have had the opportunity to comment on the draft law, and this has become the turn of the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326124507	Thank you. I would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their support for the draft law and for the constructive approach which, in general, both here today, but also in this time, is to the very serious problems we are facing. It is an extraordinary situation in which Danish society finds itself because of covid-19. There's no one standing left untouched. This is, of course, true, as the rapporteurs have also said, to a large extent also of our businesses, which suffer from a lack of demand and hence a lack of liquidity. It is absolutely crucial for our welfare societies that our companies can continue to exist despite the health crisis. This is necessary so that we can secure Danish jobs and Danish employees on the other side of the crisis, and that is why the government, together with the Danish Parliament's parties, has recently taken a number of initiatives to mitigate some of the economic consequences for companies, among others. The Commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 93 (2) of the EC Treaty in respect of a number of economic aid schemes. However, we have also agreed that, as public purchasers, we can give companies a hand in showing greater flexibility. That is why, on Monday, the Committee on Finance adopted an act allowing state institutions to prepay and to refrain from using defaulting powers. It can, for example, be done. be unable to claim damages in the event of late delivery. KL and Danske Regions have basically been positive about giving municipalities and regions the same opportunities, and that is what we are allowing with the bill here ■ with the extra good news that the European Commission has now also given the green light to the scheme. It will be an opportunity to give some companies a much needed economic space. It is important to be clear that this scheme can mean that money is paid out without a service being provided at the end of the day. That is why the draft law also states that financial accountability can be taken into account in the management of public funds within the flexible framework that we are now providing. The scheme is not intended to be used to pay money out into thin air or to give scammers free rein to the public purses. The specific framework of the scheme shall be laid down in a notice. Together with the Ministry of Finance, which has the rules on government procurement, we are working to ensure that it can be put in place as quickly as possible. And it is faster than we thought a short time ago because we have already received the green light from the European Commission. The rules will apply initially to advance payments and deliveries up to 1 July and in relation to defaults run until 31 October of this year. The only thing left to say is that I hope that by then we will be getting back on our feet and that there will be no need to extend the rules, but time will have to show that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326124741	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326124807	I should like to ask the cultural rapporteurs to come to the Chamber. Then the rapporteurs are in place in the Parliamentary Chamber and the debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Jesper Petersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326124855	Thank you. Denmark must safely and safely go through this very extraordinary situation we are in as a country. Covid-19 has put Denmark at the other end, and the situation requires the Folketing to respond to a number of points, and thus also with the proposal from the Minister for Culture, which of course has the support of the Social Democratic Party. The bill is intended to ensure that all Danes, regardless of age and digital resources, have access to antenna TV for a few months yet and thus also to the important information about, among other things. Covid-19, there's a broadcast. As the situation is today, it is estimated that by 31 March up to 150,000 citizens will be able to experience black screen and that they will no longer be able to receive a TV signal via an antenna. And this is done as part of the planned and agreed transition to a new frequency plan, where more frequencies are to be used to strengthen the mobile broadband. With the bill here, the Minister of Culture can extend the current authorisation from 2008 so that the company Boxer can continue to broadcast aerial television. The current authorisation expires on 3 April 2020, but with the proposal, the use of antenna television on these frequencies will therefore be able to continue until 1 June 2020. An agreement has been reached with the mobile operators who take over the frequencies, so that they wait until June to be able to use them. The DR is also sending out on this signal, but there the Minister can already extend the authorisation, as I understand it, without requiring amendment of the law. So that's Boxer's license, that's what it's all about. At a time of epidemic and when misinformation, fake news and quacks are emerging, access to credible information is central, as is the need for the authorities to reach the citizens. And so that news and information can reach as much as possible in these weeks when we have to keep to ourselves and how older, for example. can't have visitors, so it's also very good to be able to watch your TV channels and maybe start the day with Danish song tax and Phillip Faber on DR and still experience being part of a community. It was just to give one example. We know that it is not least older citizens who continue to have an antenna connection to television and who are not prepared for their television to be able to receive the right signal in the future. You may have to buy a new TV or a box that can be connected to your TV so that it can receive the new digital signals. And some will also need technical help to install this new equipment. Several stakeholders in this area, including: The Elders cause, has pointed out the possible cut-off of the television signal by older citizens, and so we do not want a large group of citizens to lose their television signal in just five days' time. That is why it is good that the proposal has come from the Minister for Culture and, of course, the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal and hopes that we will be able to adopt it in agreement, even as quickly as it has been set out in the timetable there so that the consent for the signal can be extended immediately. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326125145	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Stén Knuth. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326125154	Thank you. No one is in any doubt any longer that Denmark is in a serious crisis, where communication and information are vital, and that is why the Left can agree to the bill we are discussing here, in which we give the authority for the Minister to postpone the abolition of this frequency, which affects 150,000 citizens' ability both to get information and to keep up with communication. It's mainly older people who are already really, really hard challenged on this. In the first place, we are postponing the closure until 1 June, and one might ask why it should not be any longer. We have already asked the Minister a question about this, and we have also asked several questions about the length of the postponement here. How, then, do we ensure that the 150,000 citizens are given the opportunity to reconnect and that they actually do so so so that they can keep up with the time that comes afterwards? What, moreover, will the Minister do when we get by on 30 June if the crisis continues? How do we ensure communication and information in relation to these 150,000 citizens? These are some of the questions we have asked, and we hope, of course, to get an answer to that. But the sum here is that, of course, the Left votes in favour and looks forward to both the answers and the treatment in the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326125325	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Bendixen from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326125337	Thank you very much. Now the previous rapporteurs have explained very well what this is all about, so there is no need to go further. In the Danish People's Party we are really, really happy about this, because there are some older fellow citizens who, particularly in this time, really need to be able to keep up when our Prime Minister and our authorities go on and give the training that is now necessary in the crisis that is going on. Of course, we also wonder about the deadline, but we are convinced that there is a good explanation for what we are sure we will be sent from the Ministry when the time comes and there will be a little more calm and we will have time to resume our normal workings here in the Folketing. The Danish People's Party endorses the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326125420	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I do not see that the Radical Left rapporteur is present in the Chamber, and so I shall give the floor to the rapporteur of the SF, and that is Mrs Brændemose Brændemose. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326125443	In the SF, we support the proposal to extend the antenna television signal. It is estimated that from next week about 150,000 Danes will be without a TV signal. These days we are experiencing the need to get a lot of information out. New measures and new legislation are constantly coming in to stop the covid-19 epidemic. It is important that the authorities can communicate this important information to the whole population. A lot of people are very concerned about being able to keep up with developments, and a lot of people are watching press meetings and news broadcasts on television. They get the bulk of their information from the TV, which is why we must ensure that they are not cut off from coming next week. Several organisations have also expressed concern about what this could have to do with the impact on different groups of people. Like the Elders, I am afraid that it will especially be older citizens who will experience a black screen from next week. Of course, information from the authorities about the covid-19 will still be available through the Internet, but we know that a great many older citizens receive a large part of their information through the TV. Many of these will also be among the people who are particularly vulnerable, which is why it is particularly important that we ensure that they do not lose their television signal and thus risk not having access to information. At the same time, the covid-19 epidemic means that it is harder for the Danes to acquire new television equipment and to get help with installation, and that is why we support an extension. That we postpone the transition until 1 June, we think in the SF is positive. However, we are aware that we may be in the same situation later this year if the epidemic flares up again in the autumn. Therefore, it is important that the households that are about to lose the TV signal continue to be informed about this and that they are given the opportunity to provide equipment and help to install it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326125628	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326125643	Thank you. It goes without saying that it is not only serious but very serious if 150,000 elderly people are cut off from the outside world in a very short space of time, and that is why I would like to begin by commending the Minister for having shown due care and taking the initiative to postpone the planned closure here from 1 April and then to a later date. The later date has then been chosen to be on 2 June, and I would like to ask, following on from other rapporteurs, why on 2 June? Well, we can hope that many of the elderly will take part in the 1st of May demonstrations... well, no, they have been cancelled, so they cannot. So it will not be until May that they can go out and be in contact with others, among others. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not long before 1 June, if it is in the middle of May, to get their television sets fixed. Perhaps an installer will have to be added, and what do I know, and it can be very difficult to reach. So why has it been extended until 2 June, especially when I understand it in such a way as to allow it to be extended until 30 June? Then why not just take it in one fell swoop, at least in the first place? That would certainly have allowed the elderly throughout June to solve the problem. But there is certainly an explanation for that which the Minister will give in a moment. However, I note a wording in a press release issued by the Minister the other day, which says: the telecommunications companies have agreed to postpone until 2 June. Is what we are dealing with here really the problem of the telecommunications companies, that is to say that the Minister wanted a longer delay, but that it is the telecommunications companies that insist that it is only until 2 June? For then we are quite a lot of people using the telecommunications companies, who might have to take up our telecommunications company and see if it is really true that they are carrying out such a socially harmful business. So I would also like the Minister to answer this question: are the telecommunications companies the problem? Then the Minister also writes that there is an end date called 30 June. We cannot avoid that, because it comes from the European Union. Yes, there is a lot coming from the European Union, except aid to Greece when it was most necessary, but one has to ask whether the Minister has been in contact with the European Union to see if the European Union maintains that date. Because if it is the case that the European Union, despite the fact that the corona crisis prevails throughout Europe and there must be other countries with the same problem as Denmark, insists that the elderly should be isolated from 30 June, then it is not a discussion about a postponement that we should have. Then it is, of course, a discussion about the European Union that we should have, because that would be totally absurd. So we need a concrete answer as to whether the Minister has asked the European Union whether it can be postponed longer and, if so, what the European Union has replied to. Finally, I should just like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326130022	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Mrs. Birgitte Bergman, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326130031	Thank you for the floor. I would like to take this opportunity when we finally get some culture on the ground here on the platform of these times, just to raise a small flag. After all, we are in a serious crisis, a health crisis, a social crisis, but also a cultural crisis. Many of our cultural institutions are having an extraordinarily difficult time right now, and I think that these days, many people and very many politicians realise how important it is that we support our cultural life and our experience life in general. And I also miss getting something concrete from the Minister about what we are doing in these areas, because there is a lot of cultural life that falls between two chairs with the aid packages that are there. So it is a flag I would very much like to travel here today on the platform. Much more needs to be done for our cultural life. The legislative proposal before us today aims to postpone the planned closure of the antenna television signal from 31 March to 2 June. This is an important delay, and I would like to acknowledge that the Minister is now coming here because otherwise we risk that 150,000 mainly older Danes will lose the TV signal if they have not managed to get the right reception equipment. It would be a disaster in these times when information to citizens through television is, by its very nature, very important in dealing with the corona virus. If the signal had been closed, it would have hit most of our older citizens, who are hardest tested by loneliness and the need to be able to access information through their television. When we agreed on the closure of the television signal, of course we could not predict this major crisis that we are facing now, but let me take this opportunity to emphasise that I am aware that it was planned that the television signal should be changed so that there was room for better mobile broadband coverage, especially in rural areas. That intention has not been forgotten despite the adoption of this bill. This is a temporary delay, which mobile operators have given the green light to thank them for showing the extremely necessary flexibility in this difficult time. Therefore, I also believe that this bill contributes to public education and, above all, to supporting entertainment in the many homes right now. Of course, the Conservative People's Party supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326130305	Thank you, Mr Conservatives' rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326130311	I shall be very brief: new citizens can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326130317	Thank you. That was very short. The next rapporteur is Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326130333	I shall see if I can say so in fewer words: we also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326130341	Thank you. Then it is the last rapporteur in the rapporteur's line, Mr President. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326130353	Thank you, President. The problem we are trying to solve here is that on 1 April 150,000 people, mostly the elderly, are at risk of black screening and simply standing without their television antenna signal, that is, those who have aerial television. What we are doing about it is simply extending the licence for aerial television until 2 June. It is, of course, because we must all be able to receive information about the corona crisis through our television. There is plenty of information every day that it is incredibly important that everyone can get. Many people are totally dependent on their TVs in this regard, but of course it is also to ensure that there are some good films and some entertainment and all sorts of other things that you can make the waiting time go with, when you can hardly do much else in our society. The alternative is warmly in favour of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326130447	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we have now finished the rapporteur's series. The next to speak is the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326130457	Thank you very much and thank all the rapporteurs for their comments. After all, this is an urgent proposal to deal with the situation as a result of the spread of coronasmitte. It is a necessary piece in order to maintain the current antenna TV signal until 2 June this year. As planned, it was precisely here on 31 March that DR and Boxer should start broadcasting aerial television on new signals and shut down the current ones. This is because television frequencies must be made available to mobile companies in order to improve the coverage of mobile broadband, especially in the outermost regions, as some of the rapporteurs have also mentioned. But it would be very unfortunate that it sounds to us all to agree that if a large number of Danes, especially the elderly, lose the TV signal because they have not gotten and installed the necessary reception equipment by 31 March. We cannot risk these Danes thereby losing access to important information about covid-19 and about society in general. There have been questions about the role of mobile companies in this, and it is true that they have accepted a postponement to begin with until 2 June. In this way, the most urgent thing in my world has been resolved, namely that we are being delayed, that this signal is shutting down. There is then the right to extend it further, and I can promise the Danish Parliament that the Ministry will continue its dialogue with the telecommunications companies and, of course, will also follow the situation closely with the covid-19, so that, if necessary, it will also be possible to put extensions into effect. It has also been asked about the role of the European Union, and it is indeed an agreement concluded within the European Union which also prevents an extension beyond the end of June. The Ministry has not yet been in contact with the European Union, but I have taken note of the comments made by the rapporteurs, and if the situation so requires, I am ready to take the dialogue there too. With the bill, then, as Minister for Culture, I am authorised to temporarily extend the distribution licence to Boxer, thus preventing some people from going black and the antenna TV viewers also get an additional chance with more time to replace their older televisions with a newer one, and I would still urge them to do so, as this is a temporary postponement. I would also like to call for a lot of the innovative new solutions, we are looking at other business areas, that those who sell TV and those who install TV might also reach out to some of those who have difficulty and feel insecure, even in a future where we are hopefully well through this covid-19 situation. With these comments, I would just like to say that I look forward to and, of course, am available during the committee procedure. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326130758	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326130802	Well, I would like to thank the Minister for the clear answers, and then I would like to say to the Minister that I think there will be a great many Danes who will find it difficult to understand if the telecommunications companies do not accept a further postponement if necessary. I am sure the Minister knows that too. That is why I do not think there should be any secrecy about what the telecommunications companies think. If the telecommunications companies insist that they will not go further than 2 June, then I think the Minister should tell the public. Because the people have a right to know where the responsibility lies. As far as the European Union is concerned, I would just like to ask the Minister to try to contact the European Union before we deal with it here on Tuesday. There are many things that can suddenly be done in the European Union, that is, things that have been tried for quite a long time, but that can now be done because of this corona crisis. And, as I said, the European Union must also understand that this is a crisis, not only in Denmark, but also in a number of other countries. And there are many other people in other countries who will certainly have exactly the same problem. So I would just like to urge the Minister to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326130908	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326130909	The call has been received and I would like to tell you about the cooperation between the telecommunications companies and the Ministry. And there is my view that there has been a great deal of enthusiasm and understanding and hard work on the part of all parties to make this happen. So when the postponement right now is until 2 June, it is because this is also technically difficult, and there are a lot of systems that have been planned for years for the change to take place here in a few days' time. In fact, I think that there is reason to commend the telecommunications companies for helping us to achieve this at all. And then I am confident, at least, that the good dialogue will continue if an extension becomes necessary. But let's hope it doesn't. Because it will only be if society is still shut down. I still hope that by then we will be well out on the other side. In relation to the EU, the comments are noted. I have heard the rapporteur make the call earlier, but we are also in a situation right now where there are many things that are urgent. Again, it is noted and I will return.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326131022	Thank you. Sir. Søren Søndergaard has not asked for another comment, so thank you to the Minister for Culture. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326131043	The debate is open and we need to put the legal rapporteurs in place in the Chamber. The first person to speak is Mr Seligman. Jeppe Bruus of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326131149	Thank you. After all, the draft law we are now considering is an urgent legislative proposal because it relates to the crisis in which we are faced not only in Denmark but throughout the world, and it has hardly passed unnoticed that we are in the middle of a very serious situation. It is a situation which poses a threat to all those who, for one reason or another, are weakened older or are at risk of not only being infected with covid-19, but also experiencing very, very serious consequences of it. Unfortunately, there are also people who die from this disease. That is why we are doing everything we can in a united Parliament, a united Denmark, to protect those who are most at risk, and to ensure together that our healthcare professionals have the best conditions to get through this crisis and to cope with the pressure that is on our health care. In the situation that is quite unique, it is, of course, very, very serious when we can hear on a daily basis how different types of criminal are taking advantage of the situation to see if you can make a profit out of it. They commit crimes which may be of a more or less nature in themselves, but which, in view of the situation we find ourselves in, are very, very serious. The National Police are, of course, following the picture closely, and we have already seen that, for example, since 1 March. have been registered 8 notifications of trick theft, 16 notifications of attempted or executed theft or burglary aimed at protective equipment, 45 notifications of fraud concerning covid-19. And now these aid packages are also starting to be rolled out to our business community, and one can imagine that there are also those who are not traditionally similar to those who might commit something criminal, but who are trying to see if we can make any financial gain using these aid packages. In this situation, it goes without saying that we need not only to take a deep stand against this, but also to act in relation to it. That is why there is a need to deal urgently with a legislative proposal which, of course, proposes the introduction of a new provision into the criminal code, whereby the penalties for a number of offences which I read out here will double: it acts, for example. on false declaration, forgery of documents, theft, burglary, embezzlement, gross fraud, extortion, robbery, deliberate and gross negligence on the part of theft, and thus fraud and particularly gross fraud involving public funds. It is assumed that the penalty level for these violations will, as a rule, be doubled compared to the penalty level for similar offences, if this relates to the covid-19. At the same time, it is assumed that for certain infringements it involves more than a doubling. It may be, for example, if you steal a bottle of alcohol from a hospital or from a pharmacy, which does not in itself represent a very great value, but if at the time you steal it is a scarce resource to be used to protect our healthcare professionals and ensure that infected patients do not infect even more, it is very, very serious. Then it doesn't matter whether the canister with alcohol or other protective equipment costs 500 kroner. or 1,000 kroner. Then it really makes sense to say that we will double the fine for it, so instead of getting a fine of 500 kroner. or 1,000 kroner. get a fine of 2,000 kroner. For what it represents is a scarce resource, and the theft puts other people's lives and well-being at risk. And when, as a united society and a united Parliament, we are fighting to manage us all well through this crisis, we also need to clearly signal that this is not only unacceptable but that it must also be severely affected. That is why this draft law contains a number of stricter penalties, as I said, which will mean, for example, that if you commit fraud or fraud with public funds in connection with aid packages, the penalty can be quadrupled. So if you go into a hospital, go into a warehouse and steal a can of alcohol, you can go straight to jail. This is a tough round, and I shall end by saying that because we are dealing with it urgently, the proposal also has a sunset clause so that the law will automatically be repealed by March next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326131705	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's report to the rapporteur, Mrs Inger Nøjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326131718	Thank you. Of course, in the Left we are very pleased with this bill, as it is ourselves who has proposed it. We did so on Monday, and today we can then deal with it first, and I would like to sign for it because I think it is good work on the part of the government that it has been taken up. And it really also shows that when things are really difficult, we can stand together here in the Folketing, and then all that political teasing is put aside. That is very positive. Because we are in a very extraordinary and serious situation in Denmark. Pretty much the whole world does. And fortunately we also see that the vast majority of Danes stand together and help each other. Unfortunately, however, there are also stingy vessels that cynically exploit the situation to commit crime. We have seen thefts of hand alcohol and masks in hospitals, a shower of reports of fraud committed via the Internet and crimes directed against some of our older fellow citizens who are being tricked into letting trick thieves into their homes because the thieves are pretending to be from the Danish Health Service. It simply goes completely beyond my understanding that someone can steal vital protective equipment from hospitals, while health care is currently fighting a brave battle against corona, or that in this way it is fraud against older people and makes them extraordinarily insecure in a situation where they are already insecure. It is also quite unacceptable for some people to exploit the situation precisely to defraud and deceive businesses and citizens on the Internet, for example. to impersonate being the police to get information on NemID, or by getting a company to transfer money in the belief that they are paying for e.g. muzzles. Similarly, it is quite unacceptable, as I said before, when elderly people are exploited in a vulnerable situation. And that's why we find it extremely positive that the Minister of Justice has listened to us and is presenting this bill and is hitting hard on these crimes. Of course, we can also wholeheartedly support the fact that it must have tangible consequences and also impose severe penalties when you commit this kind of anti-social activity because that is exactly what it is. But we must also note that this is not enough. In the Left, we are concerned about the prospect that riots could potentially occur in the streets in the longer term in connection with the corona crisis, and we simply believe that this is missing from the legislative proposal. That is why we would like to ask for the assistance of the Minister of Justice to make amendments in this area unless the Minister of Justice himself does so, so that the police can have the necessary tools here too, and so that the punishment becomes harsh. I would also like to announce now that we have some questions on how to ensure that the penalties are used. It can, for example. by entering into a prison sentence as a normal punishment in cases where it is a criminal offence. But, as I said, we're very, very happy with the bill... with these few little things. And then we look forward to the debate in committee between the first and second readings and look forward very much to its adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132117	Thank you. There are just a few brief comments, and the first one comes from Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132121	That is really more a comment than a real question or comment. Perhaps I should have just signed up for the initiative that both the Left and the Danish People's Party have taken here over the last few days and for the good discussions, and I hope that we can bring together all parties to share this signal. So I'd sign for it this way, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132155	I feel that it is not always the case that you are equally proud of everything that is going on in the Danish Parliament, but I must say that in this corona crisis I really think that Danish democracy and Parliament are worthwhile in being able to put all the normal political teasing and sniper feet away and then work. So thanks go both ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132219	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132223	I have something I would like to ask the rapporteur. In the SF we also think that there are a lot of good tactics in this proposal, but there is one thing that worries me, and that is that we are going to put people in jail for relatively small things. I think it is really, really good to go after those who are deeply criminals and who are taking advantage of the situation, but the health care professional who grabs a hand alcohol has to do with this bill in prison. This does not mean that I think it is okay in any way but does the rapporteur not think that it is going a little too far? Should we not be careful that we do not lose the support of the people for all the initiatives we are making when we do something that goes so far? Could we not settle for a fine, and even a large fine, in this particular area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132316	First of all, I would like to say that we in the Left believe that the normal punishment should be prison sentence. Now Mr. Jeppe Bruus is so well aware of why it is that it is important that there should be a hard hit when it comes to the theft of protective equipment. That nails sound reasonable, but it's not. In other words, we are in a situation of shortage and we are in a situation where it could potentially put other people's lives at risk. That is why I am a little surprised that there are no limits. Are you allowed to do a little trick theft in the elderly, or are you allowed to take a tiny bit of the Treasury with these aid packages, or are you allowed to do a tiny bit of unrest and riot in the streets? I mean, quite simply, it is a slippery plan to come up with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132406	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132408	I think we're just gonna run the risk of seeing some bad stuff. And I'm not saying it's okay. I am also saying that this is a problem and, for my sake, we can impose a great fine, but this is a behavior that may arise from anxiety or irrationality. We saw how the Danes crashed into a supermarket to hoard all sorts of crap when it was announced that now we should shut things down, and that just means that there will probably be some citizens who, if the opportunity presents themselves, might just take that hand alcohol. I don't think that's okay, but it might be a bit of a challenge to start putting people in jail for that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132447	You should not steal, and you should not steal such protective equipment when there is a lack of it and when it can endanger the lives of other people.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132455	Thank you. There is one more brief comment. Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132459	In fact, I am a little in line with the SF rapporteur, because I think that we are running the risk of doing something radical here in the Corona crisis and doing something that might be a little overkill. In relation to the fact that you are putting other people's lives at risk, I would say that yes, you are, but you are also doing that if you drive too fast and you are also going to jail if you drive too fast?
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132532	I must honestly admit that I think it is strange in this way to start bringing politics in a really bad way into this debate. I kind of thought we were over it in this situation. I think it is a strange comparison such a little casual to say that you are also putting other people's lives at risk if you drive too fast and if you have to punish it. At least that is what we have to do, and it will be today, if not with the same penalties. But that is because we are in a very special situation. We are in a very special situation, which calls for very specific measures, and that is why, as Mr Tugendhat has said, there is also a very special situation. Jeppe Bruus of the Social Democratic Party mentioned is a sunset clause on this, so it runs out the day the crisis is over. That is why I believe that the punishment should be tightened up to the extent envisaged here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132626	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132627	My concern isn't teasing or trying to bullshit the Corona crisis. My concern is real. I think it is a very, very great thing to do, in other words to throw people into prison for stealing hand alcohol, and I am also concerned that people who go to prison, as many studies show, will just become more criminal. So I have a real concern that if we are not to face the seriousness of this crisis, we might make some efforts that are overkill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132700	I would just like to ask again whether you can do a little trick theft for older people in this connection, because it is not so much as stealing, or whether you can steal a little bit of the Treasury with the aid packages that are there, i.e. a little trinket in the Treasury. No, you can't do that, and that's why it's being hit hard. The Corona crisis should not be used to commit crime. If you do, it'll have to be extra hard on you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132724	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132729	Perhaps I am surprised that the rapporteur of the Left cannot see that there is something that is trivial. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left what the rapporteur of the Left thinks of the Members of Parliament who have brought these bottles with them. It's not a gift. But I can see around the tables, including on the Left Duck, that there are many places where these have disappeared. People have stabbed them in their pockets because they thought they could use them somewhere. You might think that about what you want, but it's the kind of stuff we can face where people have taken a bottle of alcohol in the hospital, in the staff hall, where they sit and work. They brought it because they just need it, as many members of parliament here have done. What does the rapporteur of the Left think about the fact that members of parliament have removed them from the tables in large numbers?
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132820	I would now like to question whether anyone has it. But it can be based on a census afterwards. Having said that, I believe, as it says here, that the normal sentence should be a prison sentence, and then you have to look at it within the framework. But seriously, you shouldn't go stealing hand alcohol or anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132840	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132842	You don't need a count because you can just look around at the tables. These are located on all the tables (Inger Løjberg No, they are not, they are placed on every other table!), and I just have to say to the rapporteur that it shows something about what problems you can get into if you think that there is no such thing as trifles. I think it is obvious that there are trivialities, and I just think it has to be said that the legislation we have to make is becoming all the stronger by recognising that there is something called trifles.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132918	Is there also something called trifles when you just take a little off the treasury in connection with the aid packages? Well, there must be. Or when you're just a trick thief who comes in with older people and pretends that you're from the Health Service, and if you don't take so much silverware, is that also a trifle? It's not in my world.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132935	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left, so I thank him. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326132951	On Wednesday evening there were some people who went in to an older citizen in South Jutland and pretended to be from the Danish Health Authority dressed what might well look like something from the Danish Health Authority. This lady down in South Jutland did not open the door, but said a little skeptical to the people in question out of the window: Is that correct? She picked up the discussion, and eventually these people took their feet on their necks and ran away from there. It was something we could hear from the South and South Jutland Police here in a press release on Wednesday night, so it was an example of what happens during this corona crisis. I really think that this example very well highlights the need for the Minister of Justice to have made this bill that we are discussing today, and it also very well underlines the need for what the Left Inger Løjberg and the Danish People's Party announced on Monday, namely that we think it would be a good idea for the government to make a proposal that imposed some more respect on our legislation, right now when we see these cases where someone is using other people in connection with the coronasmit. So today's conclusion from the Danish People's Party is that we will certainly support the proposal that has come from the government and the Minister for Justice, because what is needed is needed, and that is why the Danish People's Party will support the proposal and press the green buttons, at least on Tuesday, when what it looks like is finally being dealt with in the Folketing. However, we had seen so well that the proposal could be finalised today, because it would still allow us in the Folketing to ask the right questions, to make some amendments, to have a technical review, because that is what we need with a proposal like this and then we could adopt it today, because then it could come into force more quickly than if it were only adopted on Tuesday. But we have not been able to get support for this in the Folketing. In fact, when we have to do what we can to contain the corona virus, as it is called, it is important that we can also ensure that the dubious individuals who exploit other people who are in a vulnerable situation, the population in general, receive considerable and emotional punishment. The additional words are flying around in the air during this time, unfortunately, because we have seen thefts and robberies, and we can risk fraud, fraud, heeling, cheating and general dishonestness, as Mrs Inger Løbberg has also mentioned here in the Chamber, dishonestness with vital protective equipment; hand alcohol and all sorts of things that hospitals really need, so there are some who cannot help themselves. We are also at risk of people trying to use the system in these aid packages, and so we think it is good that the Minister for Justice has included in the proposal that we try to put an end to it immediately, and that the Danish People's Party would like to go a long way to ensure that it is the right people who will need the funds that will then also get the funds in this situation. It is not a secret that we also want to go further in the Danish People's Party, and that is why we also intend to table an amendment, because we believe in certain points, although it is important that the Folketing is united on this proposal from the Minister for Justice, which we have just received this morning, that it will be extensive in some areas which are not extensive today. For example, we would like to see the penalties also applied to those who buy the hand spirit or secure large-scale hand spirit to sell it in their own shops, because we are closing the outlets of thieves, we will also be able to solve part of the problem of organized thefts. Of course, thieves steal not only for their own consumption with the quantities we have seen someone try to steal, because when it is in such large quantities, it is clear that it is for other people's consumption too, and the stores that buy theft goods for resale must be penalised by a covert fine, and we also believe that the owner should go straight to prison. If the thefts are committed by organized criminals, it must also be an increase, we believe, in relation to the bill, in other words, a doubling of the proposed, if it is for organised crime, and if they are not Danish citizens, they must also be expelled from the country, because we simply do not want people from other countries to come from people who do not have Danish citizenship and take advantage of the situation. So we can support the proposal that comes from the Minister for Justice in every possible way, but we would also like to tighten it up so that we ensure that it reaches all the way around.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326133508	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, so we go further in the rapporteur's report to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326133522	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that I am here on behalf of our legal rapporteur, Kristian Hegaard, and I will therefore read his speech. First of all, we believe that it is beneath all criticism that the draft law has only been sent out this morning. It increases the risk of lawlessness. The consequences for real people are whether or not someone is going to jail. That is why we have not supported the urgent procedure itself, which has dealt with something that we have not known the content of until 8 a.m. 8.33 this morning. Corona has now had Danish society shut down for a few weeks, and it will remain for some time to come. More and more people are fitting in, fewer are gathering together. It's a good thing we're being listened to. It is good that police instructions are followed, and a great thank you is due to the police for their work. What has particularly served as effective punishment is collective condemnation. It's changed people's behavior. People have been listening, and it's worked. Unfortunately, however, there are also those who do not listen to what you do not listen to at all. Unfortunately, the criminals never take time off, either during the summer holidays, at Christmas or during the current crisis. There are some who never show community minds, some who take advantage of the situation or the condition of other people to commit crime. This is deeply unacceptable. It's quite grotesque when some people hoard alcohol in supermarkets or steal alcohol in the hospital, where our doctors and nurses work hard to take care of us all. It is far-fetched when some pretend to be either home care or come from health authorities and exploit that authority to cheat and exploit the elderly. That is just not right; we all agree with that. But that is not what today's debate or legislative proposal is about. The information we have so far is that there have been 16 reports of hospital theft and that several of them concern the fact that a single alcohol bottle has been taken in a toilet. The highest catch has been 5 litres of alcohol. So that is not what has caused us to lack protective equipment, and I find it difficult to see how we are going to get out of it by doubling the penalty. That is why we are concerned about this. We are concerned that you can go straight to prison for mild theft in a pharmacy. We are concerned about the effectiveness of the measures at all. We are concerned that this is just a risk of being a new knife law where people go to prison for minor offences. We shall be tabling amendments to that effect, because it is also the rightful spirit of society. If two people go into the same hallway, one disguised as a representative of a housing association, the other disguised as a health care provider, why should there be double punishment for the one who commits trick theft on the second floor if the other does the same on the first floor? If two people go to the physiotherapy in the hospital, one takes the alcohol dispenser and the other takes a dumbbell, why should one person go to prison and the other be fined less? We shall ask such questions in the committee's work. We are also positive about parts of the bill, for example. to increase the penalties for fraud with aid packages, which are largely based on faith and laws in order to give less bureaucracy and give an outstretched hand of trust. We are also very pleased that there is an expiry clause. So there is both good and bad to say about the bill, but we need changes in order to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326133916	Thank you. There are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326133921	Thank you. One of the questions the rapporteur himself raises here is why, if two people go into physiotherapy and one takes a dumbbell and the other takes some hand alcohol, then there must be a difference in punishment. What could the rapporteur think of that difference? This is, of course, a rhetorical question, and I think that the answer lies just in front of it: there is no shortage of dumbbells, but there is a lack of alcohol when we are in the middle of a pandemic, that is a completely unreasonable argument.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326133955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326133957	Well, I could also turn it around and ask if you think it's working and that it's keeping people from taking this hand spirit, that you double the penalty. I therefore very much agree with some of what has been said by some of the previous rapporteurs, among others. SF's rapporteur, on whether there are any limits to what should give a direct prison sentence. And I know that this is one of the things that our rapporteur will also address in the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134028	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134030	So let me ask one more question: does the Radical Left believe that, in the situation we are facing, there is a difference between stealing the dumbbell and stealing the hand alcohol? That's one. The second question is: does the Radical Left believe that, when we are faced with the crisis situation in which the whole world is faced, there is an increased penalty, an increased penalty, for committing crimes related to the pandemic in which we are faced?
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134057	I will allow our legal rapporteur to elaborate on this in the committee's work, and I hope that there will also be an understanding from the Socialist rapporteur. But I would say that stealing is always wrong. It's not like we think it's okay to go in and take anything at any of these places, but we think it's very worth considering what we're opening up to with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134125	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134129	Thank you for the contribution from the Radical Left. I am a little puzzled about the speech. However, I think it must be quite clear to everyone that it must be an aggravating circumstance in the situation we are in right now that a large-scale use of alcohol is being taken from a hospital. That's very serious. This can basically mean that there are people who cannot get the hand alcohol in the deeply unhappy situation they are at the moment. That is why I would like to ask the Radical Left whether it is not reasonable enough to make it as an aggravating circumstance in relation to other crime right now that someone is taking alcohol from a hospital. That was one question. There was another question. I did not quite see whether the Radicals would support this proposal. I feel myself that I think the right thing in this situation we are in now would be if all parties could support the legislation that comes from the government. Because I believe that the government is doing as well as it can for the sake of all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134238	I would say that I also have the impression that the government is doing everything it can. But that does not change the fact that we must ask critical questions and that we must be critical of the proposals that are coming. I hope we will all do that, because I think we will get the best results from that. Having said that, I would like to say that what we are opening up to here is that if you take the little bottle of hand spirit that stands somewhere, you will get a prison sentence for it. We think this is very far-reaching and these are some of the things that need to be looked at in committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134320	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134322	I fully agree that we can, of course, ask critical questions, but I really just asked something that I did not think I was given an answer to, namely whether the Radicals will not consider it an aggravating circumstance right now if you go into a hospital and steal 28 litres of hand alcohol, where it can in every way be a shortcoming in the current situation. That is what we see around the world, and it is also the situation that we risk getting in Denmark. Is it not an aggravating circumstance that should be punished more severely?
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134359	So we have not seen an example of, at least not in the examples I have been presented with, that someone has stolen 28 litres of hand alcohol. I think in the example where the most stolen was stolen, it was 5 l? It is, of course, serious, and it is not okay, and we take all kinds of crime seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134420	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134423	I'd really like to continue a little along the same lines. Because I do not think we have really received an answer to the fundamental question whether the Radical Left believes that it can be an aggravating circumstance that crime is committed during a crisis like the one we are in. After all, the rapporteur himself mentioned an example of trick thieves as I understood it. If someone was disguised as a caretaker, it was thought that it was as glaring as if someone today came and told an elderly couple that they were from the health authorities and that they would help them in a corona crisis. Does the rapporteur really think so?
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134508	I believe that all kinds of trick theft are very, very serious and deeply, deeply unsympathetic. I mean, I mean, the older person, whether you're lying in with one thing or another, gets hit equally hard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134530	Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134531	I can only support the fact that trick theft is one of the worst things you can ever see. But the rapporteur simply believes that in a situation where older people know that they are in extraordinary danger if they are infected with corona and there are people who pretend to be from the municipality who want to help them and who are actually trick thieves, is it not worse than anything else? It's just a yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134602	I think that if it's okay, and I know I have to answer questions from up here, I'm gonna pass those distinctions to my legal rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134614	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134617	Thanks for the speech. I just note that the Radical Left has the view that punishment has no effect. That is why I should like to know whether the Radical Left will support a motion for a resolution after the Corona crisis that we are abolishing the fines in order to drive too fast.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134637	I find that hard to imagine. But I think you should take that discussion with our legal rapporteur, sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134648	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134650	So there is no reason to have speeding tickets, and that is just symbolic policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134658	I don't think so, but it may be that Mr. Henrik Dahl means it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134708	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. We move forward in the rapporteur's report to the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326134718	Thank you for the floor. It is always a pleasure if you can praise someone from the platform in your own constituency. But in fact I would also like to address the example of Mr. Peter Skaarup started with that, because I was going to start with that, too. Because there was a vicious piece of shit that got a couple of trick thieves sent to the gate. They had dressed up in protective suits, so it was very real, and came and said they were from the Danish Health Service. But they didn't fool the vicious torment with that. She threatened the police, and then they went. I think that is fantastic, but we must also say that it is rather cynical, manipulative and very cold to try to exploit an elderly person in this way. This vulnerable situation we are in with the covid-19 should simply not be exploited for crime in this way. I therefore very much agree with the Government that those who steal protective equipment, commit frauds or trick thefts should be put to the test, or who could use some of the many aid packages that we, as a society in this difficult time, provide. So there must be full support for that from here. I particularly welcome the strict view we have of the misuse of aid packages that we are doing in the field of employment and business these days. It is, of course, a question of society putting a lot of money into this, and that is happening without the big counter-claims. Then it must also be a clear requirement that we tackle possible abuses. It is clear that we need to keep house with the funds we spend on keeping the economy afloat and, of course, they must be used for the intended purposes. So I think that the majority of the proposal is in order, but there is a single thistle in the proposal, and I think that the listeners here today know what it is that the SF is having a little bit difficulty with. And don't get me wrong, because I don't think it's okay to steal, as the rapporteur of the Left suggested... that you could steal a little bit. We do not think that, and certainly not protective equipment such as muzzles or hand alcohol, which is a shortcoming in these times. We must not do so, we must not do so, especially in the health sector, where it means life and death. But I also think that when theft of a single hand alcohol for your own use can trigger prison sentences, it is as if the proportions are disappearing. I do not think you are particularly thieving in the health sector, but it is surely not entirely inconceivable that a health care professional should take a single hand spirit into his pocket to protect himself and his family. It's a job theft, and now we're gonna walk away from a $500 fine. So, is it okay to take a handshake? No, and I would like to make it quite clear that we should not do that. But I think we go too far when a single hand spirit is meant to mean that we put people in jail. In the SF we will therefore make a proposal that we should instead give a pretty fine. The person who will then be caught in this will, of course, have to pay a net sum for this offense. I think it is really important that we make a sharp distinction between those who are deeply criminals and who steal 27 dunks of hand alcohol, and then the individual who just, because the apartment offered himself and there was a bottle of hand spirit, took it. I believe that some of these days cannot be free from some kind of irrational behavior. I think that hoarding in the shops is a very good example of how we psychologically react when we become deeply concerned as citizens, and I actually think that something similar might be good when you could find a way to grab a single hand spirit. These are our considerations on the proposal. Then I would also like to draw attention to some shortcomings. I would very much like to ask why bribery is not covered by these sharpenings. And then I am a little bit unsure whether this issue of forgery of protective equipment, which we have unfortunately also seen examples of, is covered by the fraud clauses. It may be, it is, but I can't really read myself out of the bill, so I'll ask about that. Because I think that is actually problematic behaviour as well. Then I will finish by mentioning the courts, because I have heard from the Court of Justice this morning, and I understand that they have not been consulted on this matter at all. I think that is a pity, because precisely in such a case of urgent legislation it might well be that they had good input. I understand that we cannot hold a hearing as usual in a legislative proposal. In any case, the rapid consequence of this bill may be a little difficult, since the courts have closed these times. So there's not gonna be any real verdicts. It is clear that you will be able to be held in custody if the penalty is sufficiently high, so it is still a possibility. However, although there will be no judgments in this area, I am also convinced that there is, after all, a signal value in society that we do not accept this. It's not community mind if you commit any of these crimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326135230	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326135234	I just want to sign for one, I think, positive speech. We are now dealing with urgent matters, and that means that the debate we have had up to has, by its very nature, also been brief. There are now examples of the course with the nurse or some other person asking: What about a homeless person who takes a little extra hand alcohol in his hand or in his pocket in a shelter or whatever? I think it has been very successful to say here that it is stealing. There is also a difference between whether you commit theft in a supermarket or you commit it in a pharmacy or a hospital or whatever it is. And I am actually confident that, as you do in all sorts of other cases, you will look at the circumstances and the specific case. However, it must also be said that it has not happened to anyone that if we are in this situation, and we are doing so, there are scarce resources, that is why we need urgent legislation. And it must of course be the case that, in this situation, you have to look at whether there is a scarce resource and whether it has been communicated out, whether it is clear. And, of course, it must also be punishable.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326135348	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326135349	Well, we don't really disagree with that. What I'm talking about is the proportions. I think it's crazy to put people in jail for stealing a single hand alcohol. I think we should be careful that we do not go so far as to be comical and that we lose support in society for these other initiatives, which I really think are really important. That's why I would suggest that instead we pay a more tacky fine for this first offense. I think there are a lot of people who react with irrational behavior. If there is just a bottle of hand alcohol, you might want to take it, knowing that it is not easy to get hold of. People just react strangely in these times. We saw that when they were hoarding in stores. I do not dispute that there must be a punishment, and it must also be higher. But I challenge the fact that we're putting people in jail on the basis that they're picking up a single hand alcohol. By the way, if they have never done anything before, I think it seems quite wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326135449	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur, and then we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326135506	First of all, I should like to mention that we in the Enhedslist consider it unsatisfactory that this proposal should come at such short notice. It is not generally the case that it comes at such short notice, but the time we have had to look at it is too short. We had it here at the beginning of the morning, and it is not much time to read, examine and contact different people in order to take a serious view of the proposal. I assume that, from the first time that people committed crime in this area, this bill has been considered in the Ministry of Justice. I hope that it is not the Left that inspired the government, but that it has been considered independently from the first day, and after all there has been some more time to prepare the proposal so that we could have had it a little earlier. But that's the way it is when the music plays, so we'll take it from there. We would like to acknowledge the background to the proposal. It is true that we have seen these cases where protective equipment has been stolen from health care, and we have seen these cases of trick theft, where perpetrators have appeared to be persons from the Health Authority or health authorities to gain access to protective equipment. Of course, there have not been so many cases of them so far, and in the Enhedslisten we generally do not confess to the prevailing idea that higher penalties are a wonder against all forms of crime, but if we can nevertheless support the proposal for a punishment for trick theft, burglary, simple theft, fraud, heeling, etc., which is based on the Corona crisis, then this is, of course, due to the very special situation we are in. That is our starting point for supporting this. We are in a very special situation and we would like to help send out a clear signal that the exploitation of the Corona crisis, the theft of protective equipment for own gain, is an unsolidarous and antisocial behaviour which cannot be taken seriously enough away from. It is only solidarity between people, the solidarity between people, that can prevent this crisis from costing even more lives than it is imposed on us by the very nature of the disease. Solidarity and cohesion are the prerequisites for getting out of the crisis, not least for the most disadvantaged and the most vulnerable groups in our society. And stealing protective equipment is the exact opposite of solidarity and unity. We'd like to send that signal. We are usually not much for signal policy. Call it a signal policy, because it may not have much effect on the empty brains that do this kind of thing, but we are helping to send that signal because it also sends a signal to the whole population about how we assess this crisis. But then it is also important that the proportions are in order. In our opinion, this legislation should not be used to send a so-su assistant or a doctor to prison because he takes a bottle of alcohol into his pocket. Well, that was in my fucking pocket. Now I've taken it from the table too. Well, listen: People will laugh about it or think it is very serious if we send a doctor to prison, who, because he has worked overtime and has not had time to buy alcohol, puts you in his pocket to have something to drink his children off with when he comes home. I mean, there's gotta be proportions! That's kind of just what we're saying: there's got to be proportions in this. We need to focus on those who do this kind of thing for their own gain, and that is why there must be a small limit, and we really assume that the minister agrees, because of course the minister is interested in this legislation being taken seriously. In connection with the work of the committee, we will try to find a model that we can all live with. In addition, the bill also provides for an increase in the penalty for cheating on the financial aid packages that we in the Danish Parliament have made for companies and others. To cheat on the aid packages is, in our view, financial crime, and it is fortunate that we in the Enhedslisten have had the view for years that the punishment for financial crime is not proportional to the crime of stealing from the community money, a crime that is very often carefully planned and not about just taking a little bit of protection and putting in the pocket. No, financial crime is something that is carefully planned. We have always thought that such crimes are being punished too lightly, so we can of course also support that part of the bill. Finally, it is essential for us in the Enhedslisten that there is this sunset clause. In other emergency laws it has been six months; here it is until 1 March 2021. I think we should consider whether we should not harmonise in this area and say that we will take it all up again in six months' time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326140025	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326140033	I would just like to sign for, I think, a very good speech, which in this way also contributes to the fact that not only do we stand together in the people, but we also stand together in the Folketing and do some things we would not normally do, and I will just sign for that. Then this example comes again with a doctor who has worked many hours and takes a small hand spirit into his pocket. I do not remember whether the rapporteur himself calls it a codfish or what they say, but this is a matter of stealing. You have to be prepared to do so in order to commit theft, and I am actually confident that our courts can judge on the basis of whether you have been intent on that theft. If you gave another example, where the doctor on the way home locks himself into the warehouse and takes a dunk of alcohol home in the car, knowing that it is a scarce resource and it is used to defuse the coworkers and patients, it is gement theft. I don't know if we agree, but that's how I'm gonna see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326140132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326140136	But we might as well be clear and say how we see it. Well, what is the huge problem here? It's that people steal for their own gain. That is the big problem, and that is why the Danish People's Party's proposal that we should also look at the fence that the fence is as bad as stealing in reality is something that I think is a really good idea at first sight. In other words, it is the chain of organised crime that we have to tackle, and it is organised at the moment that it is at a level where people can sell things or can give it to others and where it is not a question of it being for themselves. If it is for itself, you should not do it either, because then there is no overview of how many protective equipment there is, and if everyone does it, it could be a problem. Then all we have to say is that the legislation we have in this area is quite adequate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326140239	Thank you. Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326140244	This is a first reading, so we will have the opportunity to continue the treatment, and I am certainly looking forward to it. In relation to the proportions of that, I would just like to repeat what I said earlier, that it is not the value of what you steal. That is what it represents: a scarce resource at a time when it is absolutely essential to protect health professionals and to ensure that patients who are infected do not infect more, etc. That is what it is; it is not the alcohol itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326140317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326140320	Now there are many things we need to discuss. We also need to discuss afterwards why there is the scarce resource. So it is a completely incomprehensible to me that in a Danish society that is so strong and has so much economic space, so much technological surplus and knowledge, etc., we can find ourselves in a situation where we lack hand alcohol and have to get it from China. That's completely ridiculous. We must at some point have a responsibility for that. So there are many things that need to be done. But I just have to say that there is a difference between whether you take something for your own consumption that you use to spritse your hands off, even if you do not have the right to it and if you take larger amounts. So it also makes a difference in relation to the scarcity; I just have to say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326140403	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Birgitte Bergman from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326140412	Thank you for the floor. I am here on behalf of our legal rapporteur, Naser Khader, who has been given male cough. He's of good courage, and I had to say hello many times from him. We in Denmark are in a serious and extraordinary situation, and this requires exceptional measures. Unfortunately, there are criminals in this country who are trying to take advantage of the crisis we are in. This is completely unacceptable and the Conservative People's Party welcomes this government bill very much. The draft law proposes that the penalty can be doubled for a number of offences if the offence is based on or linked to the covid-19 epidemic in Denmark. And, of course, we also support harsher penalties for platters trying to exploit the aid packages. For example, there may be criminal trick thieves trying to access citizens' homes on the pretext of coming from health authorities. There may also be criminals stealing alcohol from hospitals, as well as a large number of other offences. Such behaviour is unacceptable, and it must be put down very harshly. Criminals who exploit the current situation must have a long sentence. That is why the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326140534	There are no brief comments. Thank you to Conservatives' rapporteur, and then the next rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326140550	We are in a serious health crisis, which has also developed into an economic crisis. The Corona virus is affecting all of us. The Government and the Danish Parliament have taken far-reaching and intrusive action to curb the spread of infection. Businesses and businesses have been closed down and children have been sent home from school and daycare centres. We must not meet as usual, and in the country's nursing home the elderly are isolated without contact with their relatives. Like an arch-citizen, it tears me apart when the authorities get too much power over us. But we are in a very special situation and, unfortunately, the interventions are necessary. Because if we do not reduce the spread of infection, the virus will spread faster and strain health care, and even more Danes will die. The way the Danes have increasingly taken responsibility for each other has warmed me. It gives me a belief that, despite the tragedies we are experiencing now and which will come in the future, we as people can emerge stronger from the crisis. The trust we have in each other helps us in this time. Unfortunately, however, there are people who seriously abuse the Danes' trust. We hear daily about how criminals use the current crisis situation to commit criminal offences. The National Police have reported that there are currently indications that the epidemic is affecting the development of certain forms of crime: trick theft against the elderly, thefts of protective equipment and fraud on the Internet. One example is a man who approached an elderly woman's home, where he pretended to be from health care. He stated that he wanted to make sure that there was no risk of coronasmits in the woman's home, and then he took the woman away from the living room, and then he himself searched the living room for values. To put it mildly, it makes me indignant to hear such stories. That is why I am delighted that the government will take action with significant punishments. With the bill, the level of punishment for crimes that have a background in or a connection with the corona epidemic in Denmark will be significantly tightened, and we in New Citizens support that wholeheartedly. The other day in several media you could also read about a man who stole alcohol at Aarhus University Hospital and then threatened the hospital guard with stab wounds. The police described the man as Middle Eastern in appearance. At a time like this, when we Danes are experiencing huge interference in our everyday lives to reduce the spread of infection, it is even more unacceptable and frustrating, if possible, if foreigners who commit crime are allowed to stay in the country. The current draft law does not indicate that foreigners should be expelled if they commit corona-related crime. That is why New Citizens are tabling it as an amendment, and we hope that the Ministry and the Minister will help in drawing up such an amendment. This must, of course, mean expulsion both for conditional and unconditional sentences and regardless of the length of the stay of the individual foreigner in this country. That is our general position, and it is not least in times of crisis such as this one. Fortunately, the vast majority are being exemplary in these weeks. Unfortunately, however, there are some who take advantage of the situation and abuse our trust. This is unacceptable and, therefore, crimes based on, or linked to, the corona epidemic must be punished more severely. And, of course, foreigners convicted of these cynical crimes must be expelled. We support the government's proposals and I hope that the Folketing will vote in favour of our amendments. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326141000	There are no brief comments, so thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326141025	Thank you for the floor. After all, we are in the midst of the situation of dealing with a global pandemic. This requires a great deal of effort, but what is at stake is also extremely important. It is absolutely crucial that our health care services can stand up to the pandemic. For without a well-functioning health service, overall public health here in Denmark is drastically deteriorating, and that is unacceptable. When, in this situation, someone can act so deeply antisocially, as is the case when, for example, they do. Stealing hand alcohol intended for a wider range of people, or cheating elderly and vulnerable people in their homes or scamming with funds granted by a unified Parliament to support business, obviously requires a response. And I have to say something about what has been said by several parties, for example. terms such as the fact that a protective device is taken into account in the quotation marks. That is an argument that I simply do not understand. The protection you nail can prevent many people from becoming infected with corona. I don't think it's like stealing some random little thing. For me, it is like stealing one of the rescue boats hanged around the country's beaches, which is like stealing something that can save other people's lives. I can't believe you can take it lightly. I also believe that the prerequisite for the things we do here in the Folketing is, in fact, that man has a free will. It is making laws that we can respect with the help of our free will. The free will is, of course, the one that means that we not only passively have the ability to distinguish between good and evil, but that we also have an active ability to act in accordance with what is good and evil. And I think it's quite I think it's a very strange position. So L 157 is a very good and sensible bill, and of course we support that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326141300	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so the next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the alternative, Mr President. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326141309	Thank you. It is clear that in the alternative we condemn all the criminal conditions that have been mentioned here from the platform today, in other words where people use the Corona crisis in various ways to commit crime for their own gain and so on. None of it's okay. That is why we would also like to help send out a signal with higher fines and make it clear that stealing and deceiving or abusing the subsidies you may receive to get your business through the crisis is a particularly bad situation. Where the chain jumps off for us is when we start introducing prison sentences for stealing hand alcohol. We think it is overkill; we think it is out of proportion. And we will support the parties that are proposing amendments in this regard, so that it is turned into a penalty. And if it is the case that we do not succeed in getting it through, we will consider voting no.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326141410	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. There are no brief comments. And Sikandar Siddique has asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326141431	Thank you. On behalf of the MEPs Rasmus Nordqvist, Susanne Zimmer and Uffe Elbæk, I would like to say that, of course, we find it deeply, deeply reprehensible that in a situation where we are faced with a pandemic in which we are faced with a crisis that we have not seen in 100 years, we are not showing socialism, but, for example, we are faced with a crisis which we have not seen in 100 years. Cheats with the aid packages that we have adopted unanimously, or organized or for that matter, unorganized spirits steal. It is deeply, deeply reprehensible. However, when we find it difficult to support the proposal as it is currently before us, it is simply because when we both appeal from the government and from the Folketing to the public's attitude towards society, it is also really important that, even though we are under pressure, even though we have this crisis, we also show the right spirit. And we think it is a great pity that the proposal is an overall package, because there are many of the measures in the proposal that we are in favour of. It is important that we send a signal that the crisis should not be exploited. But, on the other hand, we also think that the proportions may not be entirely related to the examples that have been cited, with prison sentences for stealing hand alcohol. So I look forward to the committee work that we are about to have, and I hope that we will be able to come up with a model in which it is not a single package that we are adopting, but that there may be some amendments that will make it possible, for example. The prison sentence for stealing hand alcohol is taken out of the bill. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326141626	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so now it is the Minister for Justice's turn to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326141638	Thank you. Thank you very much for your very much in agreement and positive comments. So there is no one who does not say that this is a special situation to which we have to give particular attention, by asking all of us to show the spirit of society, to show solidarity, to stand together in the community, to give up some of the freedoms that we otherwise have and the opportunities to live the life that we want. That is basically what we are asking the Danes for these days, and the Danes sign by doing so. The Danes sign by doing so, i.e. by fully complying with the instructions, recommendations, etc. made by the authorities. Then there is a tiny group that exploits the situation of pure selfishness, for its own gain, regardless of the community and which potentially throws us into the abuse of the aid packages you make to save people through the crisis, to help avoid unemployment, to help companies survive and businesses survive, that is, to abuse the trust, the money that the community does to hold hands on us all, or to commit trick thefts. Of course, it doesn't matter if you dress up as a health care professional or a caretaker when you commit a trick theft. It does not matter, because you steal the legitimacy of health professionals when you dress up as health workers and commit the trick theft. You steal from exactly the social mind that we have asked for when you do it that way, don't you? Of course, it doesn't matter whether you steal limited resources from your protective equipment or from your hand alcohol. That's why I'm going to say to that thing, whether it's hand alcohol or a dumbbell, that there's a world of difference. We don't need dumbbells. No one gets sick at least not on the short track if they don't use dumbbells. But we lack hand alcohol, it is a limited resource, and that is why we must, of course, do it here. I think it was Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten who said that Enhedslisten supports this bill because we are in a very special situation. Well, that's the thing. We are in a very special situation where there is a need to do something special, and that is of course also why, as in the draft law, there is a difference between whether you steal a bottle of hand alcohol in a supermarket or in the Parliament hall or whether you steal it in a hospital or in a medical clinic. The difference is that in the hospital, in the hospital, it is prepared to be used to protect the staff and patients. There you protect those who are weak. That is where we are trying to make our health services stick together, stand the distance, in a situation where we are incredibly pressured and where we know that we can come under extreme pressure, by the fact that this is an extremely limited resource. And that's why it's of course much, much worse to steal a bottle of hand alcohol in a hospital than it is to do it in a supermarket. That is why, of course, there must also be a difference in penalties, and that is why this bill is the same. Because it could sound like you're going to get unconditional prison for stealing a bottle of alcohol everywhere. There is no question of that; that is what the proportionality of it is. The proposal is, of course, that if you do so in a hospital or in a medical clinic where it is essential to have it at your disposal, you will get it, but of course not if you do so in a supermarket. After all, the proposal does not envisage that if you steal it in a supermarket, it will cost you unconditional imprisonment. That is why the proportionality that some people wanted is, of course, built into the proposal. That is the overall picture, and let me then comment on some of the very good speeches that have been made. I would like to start by saying that I would have liked us to have been in better time with this. I wish we could have sent it to you earlier. I do not think that the Folketing deserves to have proper time to get to the bottom of all the elements of any legislative proposal that we may adopt. And that is not so much for the sake of the honourable Members; it is because what we are adopting, what we are doing, will have significance for all those out there, for the whole of Denmark. That is why Parliament must, of course, have proper working conditions. I also have to tell you that it's not like we've been taking extra long lunch breaks at the Ministry. Well, there's really been a lot of work, and we sent it over as soon as we could today. And thank God we have a technical hearing afterwards, and I think that makes up a lot for the second and third readings on Tuesday, which means that in the course of tomorrow, Friday, and Saturday, Sunday and Monday we can have the opportunity to answer all the questions that may be asked. Then we can have the opportunity to clear out any ambiguity that may exist, so that hopefully we can agree on what we disagree on, if we disagree, because I really do not think we are so disagreeable when it comes to the matter. The Danish People's Party made the observation that it would have liked to have seen the Danish Parliament deal with the proposal as quickly as possible today. I think that given the experience of the last and what I have just said, it makes sense that we have these days in between, so that there is time for a process that we can feel comfortable with. On the other hand, I think we can do the same. Let me just say that the one to be honored is that it was actually the Left who were the first to shout guard in the rifle. At least it was the Left who were the first to turn the warning lights on in me by saying: there is something here that we need to pay extra attention to. This happened right here at the end of the weekend and hence the period of time that we have had to work on this proposal. In fact, I think that it is true what Mrs Inger Løjberg said, namely that this time is in many ways strenuous, difficult and all sorts of things, but it also throws some good away. It may throw away the good thing that the Folketing is working together in a different way. I don't think I have any evidence at all to say this, but on the other hand I'm a politician, so I don't have to have that if you measured on the politician's side now, it would be too downward. And I think it would be, because during this period we have rarely put aside strife, strife, teasing, trouble and all that else we are bothering each other with, instead of asking: should we not try to live up to the responsibilities that the people have given us? Maybe I'm wrong. I hope that there are some who measure it; after all, you measure everything these days. But one might have thought that people's confidence in us is increasing as we begin to behave like adults. It was a side remark. Furthermore, I also agree with the point made by the Left that, as we move a little further forward and the weather stays good and there may be some who get bored tremendously, we should also make sure that we have better opportunities to deal with riots. I think that is relevant. Peter Skaarup of the Danish People's Party pointed out that heeling should indeed also be included. Here again I regret that Parliament has had the proposal available for as little time as it has. Heeling is covered by § 290 but let's see if it is covered to a sufficient extent. When SF's Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt says that there should be a hefty fine, but not a prison sentence, for the health care professional who steals from the hand spirit, that is really what is supposed to be the big disagreement on the proposal. But perhaps we can turn it around and say that we agree so much that we must at least be severely punished, that we agree that this is reprehensible, even if it is health professionals who have to do so if they do so deliberately. That is why it is a question of what kind of punishment is appropriate. And I think, for the reasons I mentioned at the outset, to protect staff and patients from stealing from the community that it is relevant here to respond with prison sentences. Why is corruption not covered by the proposal? Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt was also asked about. I think we should look at that. It is not covered, so we have to look at that. On the other hand, this is covered by the counterfeiting of products, as it may be fraud. So we just have to look at how it can be handled. The other comments are in the same areas as what I have said, so I would just like to sign for the support and the goodwill to deal with it and hope that, when we come to technical consultation and whatever else comes of the opportunities to ask questions, we will get answers to our questions so that we can gather as widely as possible, including on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326142702	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326142708	I would like to thank the Minister for a constructive review of the comments that have been made. It is clear that with the short period in which we have had to look at it, there may also be a number of amendments that can be adopted. I hope the government will agree to that, i.e. if it succeeds in obtaining a majority. I would just like to ask you something about the expulsion of foreigners who abuse the Corona crisis to the detriment of other people. There I would like to know whether the Minister agrees that it must of course also mean the expulsion of those concerned if it is that they are abusing this corona crisis for crime, which goes beyond other people and the possibility of being able to live in peace and quiet in Denmark right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326142802	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326142806	There are some people in this Chamber who can make the rules on expulsion considerably better than I can, and that is why there is a little risk that I will talk myself into something where I am on a little thin ice, but then forgive me for it anyway. As I understand it, the basic premise for being able to expel people is that we are, of course, pursuing the issue, which the prosecution must do when we raise the sentence that we are doing here, we will of course automatically move into an area where the prosecution will be able to claim expulsion, and brought up for the prosecution at the moment is, of course, that in all situations where it is possible to claim expulsion at all, we must claim expulsion. So with this proposal, everything else will be equal, which will be able to be deported, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326142901	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326142908	Thank you for your answer here. I think it is very positive from the point of view of the Danish People's Party if there are more people being expelled, but I would like to know if we could get a little closer, because this is important, and time has also shown that when we make legislation in here, we sometimes have to spell it out a little before the courts, what we want there to be judged on the basis of the legislation there is, so that we do not have to see again in the Folketing that there are cases where the courts are not really following the signals we are sending from Christiansborg. That is why I would like to ask the Minister for Justice whether he would like to make an amendment that spells out that it means, of course, expulsion if you cheat other people, for example. in connection with trick theft because of the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326142947	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326142950	I'm sure we're going to go significantly further in this in the technical review. As I understand it, because of the international obligations we have, we cannot simply say that it automatically entails expulsion, but that we need to balance our links with the country of origin, their links and so on, so we cannot cut ourselves out of this situation either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326143010	The next short remark is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326143014	Thank you for the floor. I would really like to follow up where Mr. Peter Skaarup ended and asked about the Minister's political position on this. Now we got a very legal answer, and I fully agree that the government has very much respect for even outdated international conventions. But what is the Minister's political attitude towards foreigners who are being convicted of these crimes which we are now sitting here together, in fact the whole of the Folketing, and who says that an extra aggravating circumstance is being committed in the context of the situation we are in now and that it is a cynical and gross exploitation of the Danes' confidence? Does the Minister believe that foreigners must be expelled if they commit these crimes and are convicted of them?
ParlaMint-DK_20200326143103	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326143107	Yes, just as I believe that we must respect our international obligations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326143111	Then no one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326143133	I should like to ask all the health rapporteurs to come to the Chamber, and I must also ask the legal rapporteurs to leave the Chamber and I thank them for the previous debate so that we can open the next debate. The rapporteurs are ready. The debate is open and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Welcome to sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326143304	Thank you. Two weeks ago, I was standing here advocating urgent treatment of the epidemic law. The change gave the Minister for Health and the Elderly the opportunity to make use of a wide range of tools to limit the spread of infection in our society. It was a legislative proposal which received broad support from a unanimous Parliament, and I was very pleased about that at the time. Since then, the authorities have also launched a number of new initiatives. At the same time, our health and caring staff have made a unique effort in very difficult and uncertain times. We must thank you very much these days. In the coming days and weeks, we will hopefully see the impact of the measures that have already been taken so that we can mitigate the infection and our health services can keep up. Fortunately, the vast majority of Danes behave and comply with the authorities' instructions, and they are good at taking care of themselves and each other. They show community minds, and they help each other. Unfortunately, there are also examples of the opposite, although fortunately there are few, but there are situations where people have gathered in too large groups and have not kept the necessary distance and made the necessary reservations. It is especially now with the good weather and what has happened in the last few weeks that it is clear that we also have to look at outdoor areas, because it doesn't help that we tighten up inside if we get the infection outside. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party also fully agree that the Minister for Health and the Elderly should have the necessary tools so that we can put in place actively and effectively and break all the infection chains • tools that are based on those we have already adopted. We believe that it is sensible that the Minister for Health and the Elderly should have the opportunity to make rules for assemblies of less than 10 people, that it is important that we have that possibility, if it should therefore prove necessary to make use of that possibility. We also consider it sensible that the law should also allow the current ban on access to public buildings such as libraries and museums to be extended to outdoor areas such as public sports facilities, playgrounds, etc., in other words places where there may be a risk of infection. Following this, it is also logical that the draft law provides that the police may prohibit people from staying in places where experience has shown that many people are gathering together. After all, we have seen examples around the country that there have been people who have time and again gathered in the same places, and that has been very inappropriate. It will therefore reduce the risk of infection, and it will facilitate the work of the police if there is a possibility that the police may issue a general ban in selected places. Similarly, the proposal envisages that the Minister should be able not only to regulate access to the premises of traders but also to the outdoor areas of traders. It is again to ensure that the measures we make indoors are not watered down by people just moving outdoors. I will stick to it for the time being, and otherwise I would just like to say that the Social Democrats naturally support the proposal and I hope that we can have broad support from a united Parliament forward-looking too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326143621	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur, so the next rapporteur is ready to take the floor. That is the rapporteur on the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Martin Geertsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326143631	Thank you. All parts of Denmark are affected by coronavirus. The epidemic has had, has and will continue to have quite serious consequences for almost all parts of Danish society. Care systems, schools and educational institutions are shut down. Many have been sent home from work. Public traffic is virtually around people. Despite aid packages and other good initiatives from the Danish Parliament, many companies are pressured to the utmost, and more vacancies are reported day by day. Still others try to make everyday life slip with videoconferencing, telephone meetings, and other unconventional methods. Health professionals in both regions and municipalities are working hard on a very frighteningly difficult background to make everyday life for our sick and weak fellow citizens. We owe our staff, who are almost in the face of the Corona virus these days, enormous gratitude for their efforts. Without them, I can't even think where we'd be. Unfortunately, in the foreseeable future, we cannot see an end to the challenges. We don't know how the infection will develop. Is it suddenly speeding or flattening the basket? We simply do not know. For good reasons, no one dares to loosen the grip precisely in this situation. You just have to look south to Italy and Spain to see where the situation can develop if we are not extremely careful right now. We're only about. Three weeks into an epidemic which is only expected to peak sometime after Easter, and so we do not yet have enough solid ground under our feet to know whether the initiatives that have already been taken will work and to what extent. We have all received a number of advice and demands from the authorities, which we must continue to bear in mind in everyday life. There is a personal responsibility on all Danes to comply with them. We must show exceptional consideration for others. That is all you can be aware of. Last Thursday we adopted an emergency health law which was and is quite intrusive at several levels. We joined in the Left. We are of the opinion that it must be the case that, in an exceptional crisis, it is the authorities and the government that must have the overview and the capacity to analyse the latest information. Against this background the government then comes with its attitude to the Folketing on what the best possible measures are. We still have that feeling from the outset. The government comes with its attitude to the Folketing, and the Folketing must join in this critical situation. Of course, a prerequisite is that we are kept adequately informed on a regular basis and can keep up with the health professional assessments of the individual actions. This applies to the choice of test strategy at this time, at earlier times and in the future, and it applies to cooperation and trust between government and authorities and much else. Now the government is asking us to vote on another proposal which would potentially be even more intrusive. This applies, among other things, to: increased powers to regulate assemblies and the size of assemblies, to regulate access to public institutions, to give the police, if necessary, better opportunities to prevent crowds from gathering in a way that would pose a risk of infection, and to increase levels of fines in breach of the rules. We look forward to learning more about the underlying health considerations of these proposals and, at the same time, we call on the government to use the increased powers that this bill allows to apply in such a way that they create maximum clarity for all actors in society, not least for those operators who may now be at risk of an injunction. I believe that it is a matter of providing rapid clarity for these players. May I not say, then, about the part of the bill which deals with the potential possibility of restricting the ability of ordinary people to gather, that here I think the Minister and the Ministry can prepare themselves for the fact that we have a large number of questions and comments on the very definition of who may meet with whom. At first glance, it appears that even very close relations in the application of this law may be prevented from meeting. Can e.g. a couple who don't live together and where one party has a child, even meet? There are probably other examples, and I think we owe it to get it drilled out to the maximum. Secondly, the new potential rules on the size of gatherings of people do not, as a starting point, apply in private homes. Nevertheless, there is a cat door in the proposal where, in exceptional situations, the police can go into private homes and dissolve a crowd of people. Here, too, I think we owe it to each other and to the people to be absolutely keen on how the police can do this and whether, however, we cannot put some control mechanisms into such a process. Could it perhaps be an idea to include some passages on a court order here? In the Left, as has been said, we have the basic view that it is the government and the authorities that have the upper hand, and when the government asks us in the Left to vote on what the government believes is necessary to combat the Coronasmitte, we naturally welcome it. We come to that basically, despite the reservations mentioned, of course, in this context too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326144231	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326144256	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank all the employees and various professional groups, public and private, who work hard every day so that the wheels can continue to run around. And thanks to all the Danes who show great responsibility and take care of each other and others. This bill is a very far-reaching draft law which gives the Minister for Health a number of powers which the Minister can implement if it is deemed necessary. Many of these powers are very far-reaching and something we in the Danish People's Party would never vote for if we had been in a normal situation. But we're in a nightmare-like situation... a situation I never dreamed of. And it makes me think of many of the movies I've seen, where you come to a ghost town, where all the people are gone and everything is shut down. It is very serious when you go in and legislate and restrict citizens' rights. But it is also necessary, according to the information we have received from the Ministry, to prevent many from becoming ill at the same time. And if anyone is sitting out there wondering whether the situation is so serious anyway, one can take a look at what is happening in Spain and Italy. The authorization given to the Minister provides that rules on the prohibition of assemblies, etc. may be laid down. They are extended from today to include larger assemblies, events, events etc. and to include the possibility of establishing rules prohibiting multiple persons from being in the same place. Thus, as the lower limit, it will be possible to lay down rules prohibiting the presence of three or more persons in the same place. In this context, it is assumed that persons from the same household and their immediate relatives will not be eligible for such a prohibition. It is also proposed that the possibility of regulating access to public institutions, etc. be extended to include, where necessary, outdoor sports facilities, playgrounds and similar facilities presenting a risk of infection. It is also proposed that the existing possibility of regulating premises available to traders should be extended to both outdoor areas and premises available to any natural or legal person. This will, for example, allow for the possibility of regulating access to the outdoor areas of amusement parks or museums, etc., which are neither public nor commercial. It is surprising that the Danish People's Party has not closed its borders on asylum seekers. They can still enter the country, while German citizens and others cannot, only in very special situations. We want the borders closed to asylum seekers in order to avoid any further risk of infection. Of course, we will also have a number of questions in committee, including those relating to campsites, and we will also be tabling amendments, and we will work together with the rest of the committee to ensure that the necessary steps can be taken to protect the Danes, including our elderly, who are at risk of becoming even more isolated and homeless, who we believe need to be given help and shelter over their heads, and we would like to make social aid packages. Further compensation may also be needed for those affected by this bill if the Minister makes use of the authorisations. All the powers given to the Minister must be stopped immediately when it is no longer needed. And that's the minister's responsibility, and the minister has to answer for this legislation. We also have a number of questions in relation to the housing. Well, the place is inviolable. Still, I think there's a cat door. What about church closures? And then there's something about breast exams. So I also have a question as to whether we have secured all the compensation options: if the Minister decides that these powers should be used, is there anything else that needs to be guaranteed there? It is just so important with clear message and clear rules and that you know what you are getting into. And we have just seen that there are challenges, and that is why I would appeal to the Minister for Health and the Elderly to be clear in his statements, including in relation to our employees working in home care and elsewhere, as well as health professionals. There are a number of questions that the Danish People's Party will follow up on in committee, and we must take the necessary steps precisely to prevent more people from becoming infected, even if it hurts very much and is very cross-border. After all, we need to stand together and find common solutions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326144758	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Stinus Lindgreen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326144817	Thank you very much. It is, of course, only two weeks since we stood here and adopted a historically far-reaching law that gave a number of powers to the Minister for Health and the elderly. As I said at the time, it was an exceptional law, but it was also an exceptional situation we were in. It continues to be. We are in a serious situation where we are in the first phase of an epidemic. It is still too early to say whether the measures we have already taken have had the effect we all hope for. You can just look beyond the country's borders to, for example, Italy or Spain to be sure that the situation can develop very quickly into the worse. The proposed bill envisages giving additional powers to the Minister for Health and the Elderly, as well as setting out to adjust the law in some areas that were unclear. It makes sense to extend certain parts of the powers already adopted so that, for example, access can be restricted, not only to hospitals and nursing homes, but also to other settlements where there are health-care arguments that residents are particularly vulnerable. Those parts make sense. But then there are the far more far-reaching parts. The draft law provides for the possibility of further restricting assemblies. Today, as you know, it is not permitted to meet more than ten people. That is the number you want to be able to reduce further. One would also like to be able to ban preventive residence in certain areas so that one can no longer sit in the park or on the beach if the government decides. Both are very far-reaching and interfere with the everyday lives of each citizen. We have already taken a number of far-reaching steps which the people broadly support. The trust that they give us, we must reciprocate. Therefore, it is absolutely essential that new restrictive measures are proportionate to the situation we are facing and that we have a health professional record. Here I am completely in line with my colleague from the Left. For example: good arguments that it has a significant effect to allow only 10 citizens to gather instead of 15 or instead of 5? How do we weigh the health professional's recommendation that it is good to get outside in fresh air with proper distance to other people, of course, rather than sitting inside all the time if you close access to outdoor areas? These are major, intrusive measures that are being proposed, and therefore it is imperative that we be able to get answers to a number of questions relating to personal rights and the health-care arguments. I fully accept that these powers are only opportunities which are not necessarily used. Nevertheless, it is also relevant to discuss whether the same effect can be achieved with the already existing tools. This is an extremely serious situation and we must take it seriously by taking the necessary measures. But it must also be measures that work and that do not interfere unnecessarily with our personal freedom. We have already done a great deal, and the next steps we are taking must be carefully and carefully considered. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326145122	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the SF, and that is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326145135	Thank you. As others have already said, it is only 14 days since we last stood here and agreed the first epidemic law. Now we are once again faced with the second epidemic law, and I would also like to start by thanking the many employees who have been on the front line for the last 14 days and thanking the many citizens who have taken such good action against the measures we have set in motion. We're gonna have to hold on a little longer, and we're gonna have to bring everyone with us. It is too early to say anything certain about whether the many measures are helping to prevent the sharp increase in the number of people infected, as we have just seen in southern Europe. But as the days go by, there is reason for cautious optimism. Now it is important to hold on a little longer, and it is important that we get the last of them. It is impressive to experience the great support for our joint fight against corona. I am receiving, for example. also many requests from citizens who draw attention to the areas that have been forgotten or areas that the law cannot regulate in relation to inappropriate behaviour. However, the regulation of measures to protect us from infection is also somewhat of a balancing approach: too little regulation can be fatal and too much regulation, yes, it just doesn't make sense. I would like to commend the government for the open dialogue with the parties and the respective rapporteurs in this process. However, there is also a reservation that I would like to make sure is made in relation to any new measures that may prove necessary. This applies both to the discussions with the party leaders, and to the new measures in the epidemic law to continue to be discussed with the followers, as agreed with the first epidemic law. And in the SF, of course, we will also make sure that there is also a clear sunset clause in relation to this law. The new proposals for the Code of Epidemics provide a little more tools in the toolbox, so that the rules will also include assemblies of less than ten people, including collections at outdoor installations or places, as has been done in a number of other European countries. No one knows the developments and the situation in a week's time, but it makes sense that the possibility of further decommissioning is available if it is needed. The previously adopted epidemic law provides for the possibility of imposing restrictions on visits to, for example, nursing homes and hospitals in order to avoid the spread of infection among the most vulnerable citizens. This possibility is also sought for other institutions which want to prevent the spread of infection to vulnerable citizens, for example. in settlements. It is really important for SF that we allow individual solutions to visit restrictions. It must be possible to visit sick and/or dying relatives, and it must be possible to visit children living in institutions. On the whole, it is important that individual agreements can be concluded which compensate as much as possible for the loneliness which unfortunately also goes with the visitor restrictions. This is a particular focus of attention for us in the legislative process. In this context, I would also like to draw attention to another proposal that we have already made, namely that work could also be organised so that fewer employees are in contact with the weakest citizens. In this way, we can also shield against infection. I can see that the Danish Health Service shares some of these considerations, and I am delighted about that. I also welcome the fact that the government has included the most vulnerable citizens in the recent test strategy, because it is better to isolate the few sick people than to isolate many for a very long time, and in this context also special attention is paid to the fact that when municipalities may have to receive infected citizens who need care and treatment, they must also be isolated in suitable buildings. The proposal on citizens' access to justice must be clarified in this proposal. The many measures that can be taken at this time make sense, but it must be clear to citizens that there are remedies when and when you feel your rights are being violated. Finally, it is important for the SF that the government continues to have a high degree of involvement of the parliamentary parties prior to any new sanctions that will help us through the corona crisis. We will try to get answers and clarify questions in committee which we have a little better time for this time than last time. And we must do what is necessary, both for the citizens and also for the many employees in the lead who are pulling the load right now. Thank you for that and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326145623	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is no desire for short remarks. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Jakob Silver Mound. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326145632	Thank you. Like a number of previous rapporteurs, I would like to take this opportunity to express my thanks once again for the work of our dedicated and competent staff in the health sector. You are making a fantastic effort to ensure the huge transformation of our health and care sector, which enables us to receive and treat the increasing number of patients requiring treatment, which we must also expect in the coming weeks. We must be happy that we have a well-functioning publicly funded health service, where health care is paramount. We should remember to appreciate that, even when we are on the other side of the crisis. We must do our utmost to ensure that there is sufficient capacity in our healthcare system to treat those citizens who need treatment. We owe it to the patients, we owe it to the relatives, we owe it to the staff. That is why we must also do everything we can to limit the spread of infection, particularly in order to protect our most vulnerable and vulnerable citizens for whom the disease can become fatal. We know that, unfortunately, some of the things that seem best are the limitations of our social contact, because everyone can potentially be carriers of the infection without being aware of it. In the view of the Enhedslisten, we have already gone a long way in restricting the freedom of assembly. Fortunately, this seems to have a positive effect on the reduction of the spread of infection, and it is my impression that in general there is an incredibly high level of responsibility. The citizens are well aware that our common health needs to be taken care of. But we also know that it is still unclear how the epidemic will develop in the coming days and weeks. We see frightening consequences in Italy and Spain, and we see very worrying developments in France, Germany and other countries. Therefore, we in the Enhedslisten will not deny that further action, further restrictions may be necessary. That is why we are also in favour of the government's proposals. We just want to emphasise that it is vital for us that there is proportionality in the interventions. We must take care of our common health, but we must also take care of our common freedoms and our legal certainty. It is therefore of great importance to Enhedslisten that legislation here, like the emergency legislation already adopted, is subject to a sunset clause; that a revision clause is incorporated so that we have to look again at the law in November; and that there is a political follow-up group so that the measures that the government considers necessary take place in a close dialogue with the parties of the Folketing. It is also crucial for us that citizens are not cut off or unduly restricted from complaining about regulatory decisions. It is a fundamental principle of a legal society that citizens should be allowed to complain about decisions, and we must not compromise on that under any circumstances. I know that our health rapporteur, who unfortunately cannot be here today, has highlighted this in the negotiations that have been taking place for the time being on the legislative proposal, and we have also announced that we will table an amendment to the law which underlines citizens' right to appeal. In the Enhedslisten, in the committee work that is now to take place and subsequently in the political follow-up group, we will work to ensure that we maintain a proportionality between the scale of the interventions and the size of the problem. It is quite clear to everyone that we are in a very unusual and serious situation which is evolving from hour to hour. That is why we must be able to take even more far-reaching action than we have seen so far and as is proposed here. But it is crucial for us that it should not be at the expense of freedoms.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326150101	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326150111	Thank you. I should like to start by stating that the reason why we adopted the special law on the covid-19 measures last Thursday is that we are in the worst crisis most of us have ever experienced. We are in a situation in which health services are at risk of collapse. We only need to look to southern Europe to see how wrong things can go. In Italy people do not simply drive the dead away in hearsay cars, but they simply carry hundreds of dead people in motorcades of trucks. And in Spain they abandoned a nursing home and left the dead in their beds. Our Danish health services are under pressure, and we do not have a lot of extra capacity to cope with a massive pandemic with tens of thousands of seriously ill people, and where perhaps doctors and nurses and other health professionals are also infected and sent home. That is why we also gave the government a broad framework for what can be put in place to curb the spread of infection. I can't believe that a unanimous parliament has authorized the government to forcibly vaccinate and enforce its citizens if it becomes necessary that we have closed the country down, sent the schoolchildren home, closed the shops and restricted the people's access to assembly. It is very, very far-reaching action which we would never support under normal circumstances. But here it is a special situation, and a united Parliament has taken the situation seriously and takes responsibility. And good for it. We also support, as a starting point, the new powers that the government is asking for, but I would, of course, like to make it clear that we do not want to undermine the citizens' ability to complain about the decisions taken by the authorities. Nor will we be helping to set these far-reaching measures in motion here. I am thinking very much of reducing the number of assembled to less than three unless there is a clear justification. There must be a clear indication that the strategy put in place does not work and that the measures we have taken do not work as intended. I look forward, of course, both to the committee's reading and to the second reading, which we will have on Tuesday. Fortunately, we have a little more time to do good with this time. We are also going to ask for a technical review to get absolutely solid ground under our feet before the third reading. And I would also like to make it clear that, fortunately, the measures will disappear and will be repealed again by 1 March 2021 at the latest. And hopefully there will be an opportunity to lift them and abolish them earlier if we get the corona situation under control. As I said, we support the measures as a starting point so that we can quickly get the corona situation under control, and so that we can get our normal lives back and have Denmark opened up. I look forward to that very much. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326150436	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326150447	We are in a difficult health situation. Decisions have been taken by the Folketing which significantly restrict people's lives out there and which have huge, incalculable consequences for many traders. When the government has asked us in the Folketing for support, a collected Parliament has supported up, even if it went further than what many want for our society. Why? Because we were told that there was a medical necessity argument that would justify that action. It was difficult, but in the situation needed decisions. Therefore, the legislation that the government now wants to deal with urgently in a number of areas is also fundamentally different. Now it is mostly about actions that the government may want to take, steps they may want to take, but where there is no clear medical necessity at present on which to base the proposal, and that changes the situation. Because we must be extremely careful about blindly giving fundamental rights away from citizens and moving power away from the Folketing to the state. And make no mistake: this bill is extremely far-reaching. Let me give you four specific examples. 1) Citizens may potentially lose the right to be with more than two persons in their own private home, unless they are next of kin. This really means that grandparents can no longer be with their grandchildren... it can also apply to cousins, aunts, uncles... and it can mean that neighbors can no longer care for each other's children. However, one tries to dispel it by saying that one does not want to do so as a starting point, but that it may be necessary. 2) The police now have the right to be able to stop the citizens on the street if they go more than two together on the street and demand answers to who they are and also what their relationship is with those they are going with. Because you can go with your immediate relatives, but not with others. Again it is said that it is not certain that it will be necessary. But that is really what the state is given powers to do here. 3) It gives the police the right to prevent access to areas of business. It is true that these shops are being closed down, but they are not being imposed, like companies, and so it is convenient to avoid having to compensate them. It can be campsites, and it can also be shops. 4) It now wants to give the State the right to decide whether or not to complain about decisions, so that in future it will only be possible to bring proceedings before the courts. It is therefore a significant weakening of the legal position of citizens. There remains, then, what it is that can justify the urgent need to deal with this and give the state such massive powers and make extremely far-reaching fundamental restrictions on citizens' rights when it is not under medical documentation; and we know that because the Health Authority has replied to it. The answer is that you might need it at some point. The truth is that you have problems with a few groups in Danish society. The vast majority are behaving properly; the Kingdom police say so. But we have problems with a few groups in the population, and we have problems with some individual associations that will not behave properly either. However, it cannot be because of some immigrant boys and some water pipe clubs that the fundamental freedoms and civil rights of the Danes should be curtailed as significantly as they envisage here. You really can't be serious. There are people out there who are sick these days. There are people who have become unemployed. There are citizens who are currently in a position to lose their business and their life's work. And now we are going to take them further away and make their situation even worse, both for citizens and for business, because we are having trouble with some immigrant boys groups and cannot address that problem. That is why we propose that we deal first with the legislative proposal, and we can also deal with it in committee in the next few days, but then leave it until the government has explained thoroughly and convincingly why this should come into force now, why it is needed here and now, for health reasons and not because there are problems with some groups of young boys who keep coming together. And if it should be necessary to take the measures that it is not at this stage, we can, of course, deal with the third legislative proposal, and if there are problems with the three days of the search, that part must be taken out of the proposal. But until there is a convincing argument that we have to act on this now, power should remain with the Folketing and rights should remain with the people. That is why we are not going to take a position at this stage on how we deal with the proposal itself, but we will look forward to the forthcoming committee dealing with it and see what happens there before we take a final position.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326151028	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are requests for a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First it's for Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326151035	Thank you. I can sometimes be in doubt whether it is actually the same legislative proposals that we are dealing with, the rapporteur and I are dealing with. Because with the last draft law, in which we adopted an epidemic law, we adopted a number of provisions for ministries which, moreover, in good dialogue with party leaders and with accompanying groups and others, can take decisions and measures, as this legislation requires, which in fact requires a number of days. Exactly the same applies here. How can the rapporteur get himself to stand on the platform and say that this law gives the government powers for anything else, something set out at all? We provide a legal basis, as we did with the previous one, and thus also an opportunity for the government to take the necessary measures. But there's nothing in this law about exactly what it would be. Could the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200326151136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326151144	I think we've read the same bill. We stress that there is no medical argument here that it is necessary to do these things. In this context, the Danish Health Service stresses that no health documentation can set an upper limit for a certain number of participants in an assembly. When we dealt with the last proposal, there was a medical argument as to why we should do what we did. Then there were parts of the last proposal that we did not agree with in the New Citizens' Party either, and that is why we tried to get it divorced, but that would not be done in the Parliamentary Assembly. It may also be that it is necessary to take these measures, we do not reject that, but until it becomes necessary, when the government now says it is not necessary to take them yet, it is just nice to have in the toolbox, then the power to bring this into force must lie with the Folketing, and the rights must remain with the population until there is a need to make changes to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326151250	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326151253	I just want to know whether the rapporteur agrees that what we are giving the opportunity to do with this legislation is a legal basis for decisions to be taken on, for example. to change the number of people to meet, as indeed they have in very many other countries, where the situation looks much more serious than it fortunately does for us in Denmark right now. But in other places restrictions have had to be made, and in some places people have even been asked to stay at home. Does the rapporteur agree that there is nothing in this legislation to determine what is going to happen, but that we are giving the authority to do so if it is needed, which is indeed an option, because the curve for infection is still rising?
ParlaMint-DK_20200326151332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326151336	Where the difference is between SF and New Citizens is that the legal basis and the responsibility we believe should lie with the Folketing. If the Folketing thinks it's necessary to make these decisions, then it is. And so far we have shown not only by New Citizens, but together as a Parliament that we take responsibility for ourselves. So if the government comes and says that these actions are needed now, then we will deal with them. But what we are told is that the government is saying that they are not needed now, but perhaps sometime in the future. In other words, we attach great importance to the rights of citizens, so that none of them should be removed without strict, strictly necessary health-care arguments.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326151415	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326151421	I will be really sorry when I hear the rapporteur's speech from the New Citizens' Party. I think the whole force of this effort that has been has just been that we've found each other and that we've done something that we all could see each other in. So I'm just gonna really appeal to New Citizens just to give this another chance and not get bad nerves and get out of this. Because we need all good powers. I don't know where to start, but there will be the allegations and what comes from the rapporteur, Mr President. Lars Boje Mathiesen, said as many things as I simply cannot recognize, in which I simply cannot see the truth, and I would appeal to us to try it together in committee to see how much truth there is in those worries and then to try to see if we cannot find each other again. We will be much stronger on this. So it's just an appeal from here. I have no further comments to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326151530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326151533	New citizens have been clear in our support for the actions that have been taken. Now we are raising a whole series of problems, because we think that legislation is now being presented, on the one hand, saying that it is not needed right now, but we would like to have the opportunity to do so, like other parties who would also like clarification as to whether there has actually been a change, so we need these things. I look forward to going through these things, because I would like clarification as to whether a grandparent can be with the children and also when it comes to the police. Because as it stands now, the police can just go and ask: what is the relationship? Those are the things you put up with here, and if it isn't, then we have to put it in the bill. Because if there are three people who are not allowed to go on the streets because of their lack of close relations, then we must be clear about it and it is not clear as it stands right now. And it is not only new citizens, but also other parties that have raised some problems in relation to what it says here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326151644	Thank you to the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326151657	Thank you for the floor. As several rapporteurs have already said, with this draft law, L 158, we are going to amend the law that we adopted on 12 March with Bill L 133. And now I want to say something that I have said before, because I think it is important to put it on the record in this debate. I didn't hear one politician from any party mention the epidemic law during the election campaign last year... not one. I do not know how many meetings I attended from 7 May to 5 June, but none of the meetings I attended said: what Denmark needs is a change in the epidemic law. And if I'm to be honest, I don't really know how many of the candidates knew about the existence of the epidemic law at this time either. When we then revised the epidemic law anyway, it was because a situation had arisen that could compromise our entire healthcare system, and that is what the fight is about. I am glad that there are some rapporteurs who have said that this is, of course, also about the excess mortality rate of covid-19, but it is about our health care. That is what justifies the steps we are taking. If our healthcare system collapses, as the forecasts right now say that New York City's healthcare system will over the weekend, it will reduce the health of all. It's gonna be more risky to have an acute C-section or an acute appendectomy than usual. It's gonna be more risky to be hospitalized with whatever it is. It becomes more risky to have cancer or cardiovascular disease. It's gonna be more risky to be a chronicler. And if a great many of our doctors and nurses get sick or even die, they will be hard to replace because the situation is the same in Europe. That is what we are ultimately fighting for; that is what is known as the general good. We can per. Today's date doesn't say anything about where this covid-19 epidemic will end. I am not a professional, but I can count, and I can say this here: if hospitalizations in Denmark since the first admissions had grown by 20%. a day, that is, if for 2 weeks each day there had been a growth with potencys of 1.2 • 1.2 in the first power, 1.2 in the second power, 1.2 in the third power, etc. So the short part is: the jury is still out, as they say in the English-speaking countries; we do not know what is going to happen. That is why, in general, we can support the revision of the Code of Epidemics. There are some of the changes that allow for measures similar to those taken in Germany. There we feel in the same way as a number of other parties, and we would like to note: it is important that such changes are well worked out, proportionate and justified there we can easily find each other. We will have similar activities, which we should have equated, but which we did not get done in the rush and we will have the right of appeal changed. On one point, we really think that the draft law is too far-reaching. It is too far-reaching for the police to move into private homes without a warrant if one considers that a monkey party is popularly held in a way that is actually circumventing the rules that close ordinary amusement tables. So we would suggest that we look at L 133, that is, when we dealt with it. There was a suggestion to drop some court orders; there was a discussion about getting these warrants back in. They came back in, we found each other, and now you need a warrant to move into the homes of private people. We'd like that too. Come in here. I think we can find each other. We have to look at it during the legislative process, but if we can get that thistle out, we have a positive attitude to the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326152200	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. The next rapporteur comes from the alternative, and that is Mr. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326152211	Thank you very much. We are now expanding our efforts to combat the spread of coronavirus quite considerably. And I have to say that if I had read this bill two months ago, I would have thought it was a lie. I just thought it was a nightmare. But if I had seen some of the pictures I now see from Italy two months ago on television, I would have thought it was a lie. So it is clear that what we are doing now is addressing a totally disastrous and chaotic situation with some completely far-reaching legislative proposals that we did not think it was possible for us to stand here and deal with. I think it is well described by the previous rapporteurs what this bill is about. Many good questions have also been asked. I will not repeat them, but we will read the answers to them very, very carefully when they come. Because, although we naturally expect to vote in favour of this proposal, we would also like to make it quite clear, so that we can, for example, do something about it. compromise personal freedoms as little as possible. But the alternative is going to support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326152327	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. Well, then, privateist sir. Sikandar Siddique asked for the floor. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326152342	Thank you. We, as Parliament and as a government, have been united since the crisis broke out, and I believe that it is not only helping to combat the Corona crisis, but it has also helped to combat politicians. I am sure it has made an impression and improved relations between politicians and citizens. It is important that we stand together in this crisis situation, but it is also very important that we act democratically as watchdogs that we as MPs provide parliamentary control precisely in a situation where we deal with legislation urgently and where it is going so fast. On behalf of MEPs Rasmus Nordqvist, Uffe Elbæk and Susanne Zimmer, I can say that we are critical of the limitations and limitations that come from our basic freedoms with the proposal. That is not to say that we are necessarily voting it down, but we are looking forward to the committee reading so that we can get answers to the questions we have already put to the Minister, and so that we can ensure that if we go in and tamper with basic freedoms, then there is a health certificate to do so, so that there is professional evidence to do so. It is super crucial that we combat the Corona virus together, but it is equally crucial that we live up to our role in parliamentary control at this time and ensure that we do not make legislation restricting people's freedom. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326152604	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks, and so it has become the turn of the Minister for Health and the elderly to come to the platform. Welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326152619	Thank you so much. I would like to start by thanking you for the positive reception of the bill by virtually all parties. I am unspeakably pleased that so many can back up and I am unspeakably pleased with the constructive dialogue that is in the Assembly and in the rapporteur meetings we have in our follow-up group. After all, as recently as yesterday, we were sitting over the video, too, late last night, having another technical review and discussing these things, and I must say that it is the people's regime when it is best that democracy responds, that we show confidence in each other and also have sensitivity to each other. That is why I would like to thank you. I am convinced that it is absolutely crucial for the public's confidence that we in Denmark can get through this, but also that we must take on board the recommendations and accept the limitations in our normal lives that we must face up to here now, and it is great to experience the support that exists throughout the population for us to get through this situation together. It is all our overriding priority to mitigate the serious consequences of the spread of covid-19, coronavirus, which may otherwise be seen in Danish society, and mitigate them as much as possible. The Corona virus is a virus that can hit us all. It is a virus that we have seen and which we see right now lays down health systems, lays down whole communities, lays down large cities and lays down whole countries. It is a virus that is targeting those of our fellow citizens who are older; those of our fellow citizens who have chronic diseases; those of our fellow citizens who are newborn; and those of our fellow citizens who, for one reason or another, have reduced the immune system. Denmark must win that battle, and Denmark is ready to make the sacrifices needed to protect our fellow citizens... our grandparents, our friends, our neighbors, our children. We're there for each other this time. The spread of viruses must continue to be taken very seriously. Unfortunately, as several rapporteurs also mentioned, as expected, we see an increase in the number of infected people, in the number of patients and also in the number of people who die as a result of covid-19 in this country. There is a meeting of my health ministers in the European Union right now, while we are here in Parliament, and I am getting reports from what the situation is like in Europe, and it is in every way catastrophic scenes that are taking place and there is a disaster, there are now reports from several countries, a lack of protective equipment, which is now beginning to try to sterilize and recycle, and a lack of respirators, even in large, normally well-functioning countries. After all, people work around the world all over Europe and also in Denmark. Authorities and health professionals everywhere are doing a huge and important job, and so I would like to say to the rapporteurs: thank you very much for the thanks that are being given from the parliamentary platform here to our staff. They really deserve a pat on their shoulders. I also believe that we should extend our thanks not only to our healthcare staff, but also to all the other sectors that are on extra alert and have extra tasks and extra nervousness in this time, and indeed to all Danes who are currently making an extra effort to help each other. As has already been mentioned, we have already taken a number of measures to contain the infection. It's happened fast. It happened, as the Danish Parliament knows, at the forefront and much faster than in many other countries, because time is so crucial a factor. And we have said quite openly and thank you very much for Parliament's support that we would rather go one step too far now than we would stand in 3-4 weeks and not have done enough, because then it is too late, and the price can be seen around Europe and around the world. On 17 March 2020, the Folketing decided to provide the authorities with a number of options and tools. Some of them have been put into use, but not all of them have been used. Can it be denied that some of them will not be used? No, unfortunately it cannot, because, as the rapporteur also said, it is too early to judge where we are on the curve; what an epidemic curve we have in Denmark. All we know is that action must be taken in time. Normally, it goes without saying that we have evidence to lean on, but we do not have that luxury at this time. It was more than 100 years ago that a pandemic last time had an epicenter in Europe. The world is completely changed, of course it is. And that means that we have to take the political responsibility to act, even if every step is not described in the textbooks before the textbooks are about epidemics elsewhere in the world and, most recently, Europe was seriously affected, the Spanish disease was, as I said, more than 100 years ago. It is to a large extent the assessment by our authorities, the Statens Serum Institut and others that the initiatives which the Danish Parliament unanimously decided to take have already had an effect on the behaviour of the Danes and that they will also help to relieve and mitigate the stress on health care. How much can we say yet? Therefore, it is important that we also look forward and are constantly ready to act, ready to intervene and ready to do what it takes to ensure that we do not have an epidemic curve that suddenly turns out to be steep. We must constantly ensure that our authorities have the tools necessary to deal with the threat we face if there is a need to act quickly and to limit the spread of infection and mitigate the consequences of the spread. That's where I'm going to appeal to the Folketing. I've heard the points, including the critical points that were. That's perfectly understandable. That was also the case at our meeting yesterday, and I very much look forward to our technical examination with questions and answers and our strong and good cooperation in the spirit of the people's regime, as at the very best. I am very, very confident that it will be possible to find solutions, including with regard to the points raised. But there is something I would very much like to appeal to. If anyone thinks that you can wait to introduce this; if anyone thinks that it is possible, I would say: we do not have that luxury. Nor did they have that luxury in other countries where it turned out that something was done too late; and there is a very, very expensive price to pay for it. This may be a matter of hours, it may be a matter of days or weeks, but when there is sudden widespread spread of infection, it is absolutely crucial that our authorities have the means to intervene. That's what the government wants to secure with this bill, which by the way, no, of course, because this needs to be pointed out more clearly has exactly the same sunset clause as the one we dealt with 14 days ago. And it will also be the case that, as we use parts of this bill, maybe it all, but at least probably parts of it in the form of announcements, we will make sunset clauses in each notice, which may well be shorter. You can take me at the floor, because you can simply see how we have used the last amendment of the law in decrees; where you can see that in every decree we have carefully assessed a sunset clause which is considerably shorter than the amendment of the law itself. And, of course, we will do that again. The content is that, firstly, it is proposed that the current possibility of banning larger assemblies and events be extended and made more flexible. Today, the Danish border is 10 people and, if necessary, it will be possible to reduce it; the lower limit could be set to prohibit the presence of as many as three persons or more in the same place with a number of exceptions. It is assumed that persons from the same household and their immediate relatives will not be covered by such a prohibition. Secondly, the government states that access to outdoor sports facilities, playgrounds and similar facilities must also be regulated in the future if there is a risk of infection in these places. We propose to extend the possibility of regulating premises available to traders. It is proposed that it should be possible to regulate both outdoor areas and premises, and that it should apply to any natural or legal person, which would, for example, allow for the possibility of regulating access to outdoor areas of amusement parks or museums, etc., which are neither public nor commercial. We also consider it appropriate to increase the ability of the police to prohibit, for a certain period of time, stays in places with regular access. For example, the police will. could do so if the police learned that in certain places there are repeatedly gathering crowds in a way that causes increased risk of infection. In addition, the government believes that it is necessary to set higher levels of fines for infringements of the rules of the epidemic law in order to prevent people from following the rules. In the view of the government, this should be done, among other things. be able to modulate the amount of a fine depending on the size of the undertaking. It is a mechanism that we also know from several other laws. I would also like to draw the attention of the Danish Parliament at first reading to the responses from the health professions sent to the Danish Parliament as agreed with the rapporteurs before the beginning of the meeting so that they can be included in the committee's consideration of the bill. I am sure that, despite this urgent debate on the legislative proposal, we will have a good committee and, of course, I will answer the questions that the committee had to put to me along the way. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326153744	Thank you, Minister. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the Minister, first from Mr. Martin Geertsen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326153754	Thank you. When you cut away everything else, what worries us here is what's all about when people get together. Could the Minister be prepared to look at whether or not to cut it a little differently? I myself gave an example, as I and others with us at least read the bill, of a couple who do not live together and where one of them has a daughter or a son and, if necessary, could not meet. As far as that is concerned, will the Minister be prepared to take a slightly different line? That was my one question. My second question relates to the aspect of police access to private homes. Could you imagine, as Mr. Henrik Dahl and others have mentioned this, as have some other control mechanisms?
ParlaMint-DK_20200326153856	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326153901	Thank you for the concrete and constructive question. To the first question: yes, I think that sounds wise. The more clearly we can describe it, the easier it is also for the people to comply with it and for the authorities to enforce it. I think it would be impossible to describe every situation in detail, but to come closer to it than it is here, I think we should work together in committee. If you look at our neighbouring countries, there are, of course, convention bans with different numbers of people. Germany, Great Britain and Estonia have a maximum of two people, and there it is in several other countries, and the inventory we are getting them in from our embassies is also very much to be forwarded to the committee. It may be interesting to see what they have actually begun to work with in different places and how those who have identified it, for it may be that one can be inspired by it. On the second question of access by the police to private homes: it was agreed during the last amendment of the law in committee that there should be a court order, and I think that is also what was said by several rapporteurs that the same principle should apply here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326154012	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326154016	Thank you for that answer, and we will have to drill that further here in committee. It is completely without any form of underlying music in what I am asking now, but it is simply because I want to be informed of the government's position on the issue of the process here. For Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen has raised the question of whether you could imagine a situation where you first and second treated it here and then third treated it at a later time when it was relevant. What, in the Minister's view, does it mean that that model would not be used?
ParlaMint-DK_20200326154053	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326154056	There are several different elements in that. I think we need to return to the committee in relation to a completely detailed list of it, but there are many, many reservations about it. The obvious thing is, we're about to go into Easter. The Danish Parliament has some time limits for gathering together, and if there is a situation where the National Police or our Health Services, the Board of Patient Safety or others, need to intervene quickly, then they cannot wait. Then we can risk wasting hours and days that we don't have. The second point is that there are possibilities for announcement which will be issued, for example. the rules that are about patient rights in relation to fertility and other things that will have to do good health care already now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326154145	The next short remark is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326154159	Thank you. This is just a follow-up to what was asked about a court order. This bill is a follow-up to the second bill. Does there have to be a court order in relation to what deals with the housing part? Then I want to know if the Minister is aware of whether the government is already planning to use these powers given to the Minister for Health. Do we know which of the powers the Minister will be given today? I also have another follow-up question. It's a little bit about that too, sir. Martin Geertsen said. The bill on page 19 states that the Minister may lay down rules on the prohibition or restriction of visitors and access to specific nursing homes and hospitals and other general matters. However, it says below: certain close relatives can be exempted from the ban or restriction to the extent that, for example, they are: is an urgent visit to a critically ill person in a hospital or nursing home. I just want to ask who close relatives are. Does this mean that you have to be related to him or her in order to be able to visit him or her? If the person is now on a hospice and is deadly, should it only be family, that is, only relatives, or can it also be a close friend? Because it is very restrictive if it is to be the case that it is only family, that is to say, that you share blood, have the same blood, I would have liked to have said.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326154316	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326154319	When the word 'neighbour' is proposed and not 'family', then relatives can also be people who are not what the rapporteur said. I do not know if that is the correct wording; I do not think it is. However, I believe that we must come back with the exact legal nature of the practice in relation to relatives. But it's not new with relatives, and the authorities are assessing whether you're a relative. My opinion is that now there was a concrete example with a dying patient on a hospice that it would then be inhuman, I think, if we say that he or she cannot be visited by a friend who has been following the person all his or her life. Why would we stop that? However, let us try to reassure not only the rapporteur, but also, I think, our staff and, in general, those who would be covered by these rules, so that we can be a little clearer about those situations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326154423	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326154426	Then the Minister did not get the answer as to whether the Minister is aware that the powers given to him will already be used. I would like an answer to that. I have a question for the Minister of Health. When the Minister of Health is now authorised to authorise other authorities under other ministries, can the Minister also authorise another minister of the Council, including the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration, to close the border on asylum seekers as well? The border is closed to everyone else.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326154451	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326154455	With regard to the last question, which concerns the asylum situation, I would recommend that the question be put directly to the relevant Secretary of State. I would very much like to return to the matter of whether or not some of these provisions should be put into practice in the course of the committee procedure. I gave an example to Mr. Martin Geertsen before, the example of patients' rights, which will be very, very good even now to get out in an announcement. I would also like to return to the committee's work in relation to a review of each of them. So I would like to reserve the right to delve into it precisely so that we can give the concrete answers to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326154537	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326154542	Thank you. New citizens have taken responsibility and do not renounce any responsibility; I hope the Minister will confirm that. It was, as was indicated by the Social Democratic Party, that New Citizens have not taken responsibility in this situation. I think we have, and I hope the Minister can confirm that. My question is this: what specific changes have been made to the figures, which make it necessary to tighten things up? In other words, there must have been a development which means that the austerity and the things you have done have not been enough since you put more people into action and you want them done now. So I am asking what has actually happened to these figures, which means that the austerity and the legislation we have made so far are not good enough and do not address the challenges we have with health care being able to keep up with out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326154628	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326154631	I believe that all parties take a great deal of responsibility in this time, both by communicating to the Danes, to the electoral groups that listen especially to them, and by voting in favour of the amendment of the law that we adopted 14 days ago, and I hope and appeal for that responsibility also to be found in them to be able to do so by this amendment of the law. Specifically, our epidemic curve is such that it is too early to say: Well, we got off easy. If you just look at our two neighbouring countries, the latest infection rates and figures for dead people both from the Swedish capital and from several Länder in Germany show clearly that the only thing you should not do is to hesitate, and you should not think that the danger has now passed and that we are well through. We are only just in the week three of the epidemic in Denmark, and if you look at the countries that are in weeks five and six, how disastrous it has been • some of them did not react in time you see the situation we should not put ourselves in for everything in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326154745	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326154749	I agree with that. Nobody's talking about letting go of the gas either. This is pushing the accelerator further, and there I ask what the argument is for us to do it. What's the need? What is the medical need for us to do more? If it is not there, or if it is said that there is a need for us not to hesitate now, why is it not presented in such a way that these are things that we are going to implement now? Because then the Folketing can take responsibility for it. But we do not do so; they say that this may be something we want to implement, and so I cannot use an argument there that the members of the Folketing are at home. So there are people who are losing their businesses out there, and people who are sick that we need to spend our Easter days coming and rushing the case, I am happy to do so. That is not, in my view, an argument for adopting any legislation. So I would like to ask again: what is the argument that you cannot deal with it first and second and then treat it third if you have to do these things? We can easily make reports and everything else clear so that we can adopt it and so that it can enter into force immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326154841	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326154843	I think we are having a very fundamental discussion here. What you have to realize is that it is so fundamental here to vote in favour of this law, you take responsibility for this law and help to take responsibility for giving the authorities authority to take this law into force, as it will be necessary, as it stands directly in the paragraphs, to prevent the spread of a generally dangerous disease, here covid-19. That is the way it is defined in the draft law. That is what you take responsibility for, and that is to say, if the Folketing is not ready to take responsibility for it now here, and if you are not on the side of the New Citizens' Party, I regret it, but it is the responsibility that you assume as Parliament that you give the authorities the authority to move exactly when it happens. If you don't feel ready to do it now, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326154942	The next brief remark is to Mr. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326154950	Thank you very much for that and thank you for the review and for a good and inclusive process this time too. I would like to ask about some of the new provisions that we are proposing here, among others. to reduce the number of persons to be assembled. Has the Minister given any thought to what should be the basis for this? Should it be an observation that there has been a change in the spread of infection, in the number of interventions, or would it be a purely political decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20200326155012	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326155016	Thank you for the question. It will be after a concrete assessment and, of course, with advice from our health authorities, but also from the National Police, who are following this very, very closely. And there are two things that need to be borne in mind. One is the epidemic curve, i.e. how it moves, both in relation to the number of infected people, the ones we get tracked down, but also in relation to the number of inmates in the different departments in Denmark. And the other one is the behavior that we get registered. Because if you look only at the infection curve, it can be 14 days too late in relation to infection chains, which can suddenly spread. So it is not only the health professionals who can advise, but it is also the National Police who will be able to advise the government on where we have to go further than we do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326155107	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326155110	Thank you very much. One of the other new provisions is, after all, about the problem of preventing areas from being closed down and saying that we must not be brought together here. Is the Minister aware of how often it has been necessary for the police to clear the same area several times, and perhaps how many different areas in Denmark are involved here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200326155127	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326155130	There I recommend asking a question, and then we can get technical assistance from the National Police to answer it. However, I note that last weekend we had a situation where the rules had entered into force and where the police were out with very, very strong recommendations to the people, and the municipalities took a great, great responsibility. It's about the places where you usually gather on a Danish spring day and walk, settle down and enjoy each other, and that's exactly what you're not supposed to do here now. And it has to be said that the response that was in the population was really really good, in other words that the instructions of the authorities, the police and the municipalities were clearly followed. And that is what we still have to do. This is all about the fact that, at some point in time, we have to have some tools in order to be able to take action.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326155218	The next brief remark is to Mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326155224	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for an inclusive process and a preliminary statement. I have a question which I think is of great interest to the people, and this is about the ban on assembly. As I read the text, it says that a possible ban does not apply to members of the same household. It is quite essential to know this, although I hope it will not have to be applied. And it goes on to say that the person's spouse, permanent partners, permanent partners, parents, children and siblings are not covered by the ban. Private homes are not, as a rule, affected by the ban, but if necessary, rules can be laid down for situations where private homes are used for gatherings with people outside the household. One could imagine that this was the case if there are really big gatherings and something like that. But living communities and students with shared kitchens are also excluded, as I read the proposal, and jobs are also excluded. That says a little bit about the situation. I think it is quite important that we get it communicated strongly if it should happen that we get there, what we certainly do not hope. I assume, however, that the Minister can confirm that this is simply the definition, so that it must be very irrelevant to each other before it can be said that we must not be brought together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326155358	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326155402	I can fully confirm that analysis, assessment and presentation, and thank you very much for it. In fact, I think I will go further and say that it is not only important, if it is necessary to introduce it here, it is also important in the legislative process that we become very clear in relation to the public, who, of course, have a great deal of interest in this, in other words to say precisely what it is possible to do and what it is not possible to do. Perhaps there is one thing I would like to add to the list that was here, and that is in relation to the basic law where we are here for quite certain reasons. There is a clear exception, and that is when it comes to political assemblies, political meetings. There one still has to observe that one is not too few meters apart, but there one can, regardless of the changes here, gather into larger groups also forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326155455	Sir. Per Larsen? No. Thus, there are no further brief comments to the Minister, so thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200326155517	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 31 March 2020 at 2 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
