ParlaMint-DK_20200331233007	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331233016	The item listed as No. 1 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331233022	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331233040	I teach social studies, and when I do, I have always done so with pride in the Danish people's government. I have taught my students that we have a unique place here in Denmark. We are defending civil rights, we are upholding freedoms, and we have democratic rules that also allow for minorities and also allow for differences. I don't have that pride tonight. We are faced with a situation in which a party in the Danish Parliament is refused answers to key questions in connection with a draft law, even a bill that is wanted to be dealt with urgently. In this situation, a broad spectrum of the Folketing denies a party the right to be able to get answers to what the party considers to be key questions. I am new in here, but I would say that it is simply unheard of that it is the way to represent the Danish Parliament, in other words to deny a party in the Folketing the right to receive answers to their questions. Here we are with a bill that could potentially tear away life's work under some people out there. The questions we are asking are absolutely central, because what is the legal position of these people now? What kind of fates do we have in our hands? What kind of morning are they gonna wake up to? And I've asked the questions widely to Parliament's parties. If anyone in here can give me answers to these questions, give them to me. Just as quiet as it is now here, there was just as quiet when you had to answer those questions. It's a shameful day today for primary school, because what I've been telling my students was apparently a lie. I hope that this is the extraordinary situation that makes the parties have been forced to do so here. I hope that this gives cause for reflection on how we safeguard and protect our people's rule. Despite differences, this is about the fundamental question: can a party, can a member of parliament get answers to his questions about the legislation on which to decide? So I am genuinely concerned that a Parliament is rushing through these things without being able to give an answer to what is being voted on. I wish that, at a slightly higher level, there was respect for those citizens out there who are standing and do not know whether they were bought or sold tomorrow. And I would urge that we put ourselves These people deserve that because they're gonna be hanged to dry with this, and that's why we're gonna have to take that responsibility on us. And we have shown that we have been able to do so. When the government has come and asked for the support of the Folketing, it has been a unanimous Parliament which has been behind it. It is a unanimous Parliament that has taken responsibility. That is why it is also a pity that it is not a united Parliament that will take responsibility for safeguarding the democratic process, because it is something absolutely central that we are going in and tampering with here just as centrally as what we are doing in tampering with people's freedoms and people's civil rights. So with the things that have happened this evening, we must all be careful today how much plunder we use when we talk about democracy. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331233645	There is a brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331233651	Thank you for that, President. It is not to start a long debate here. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur can confirm that yesterday we held a long-term consultation with the Minister for Health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331233701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331233703	I can fully confirm that. I can also confirm that I have asked questions about this. I can also confirm that answers came over. I can confirm that I sent further questions because I did not get an answer to it. Then it came at 5:00. 20.19, I think it was, a few more answers from the Minister, who still did not address the fundamental problem. And then I ask that we address that problem and take the time to investigate it. That's just what I'm asking. But in broad terms in the Folketing they say no: it is not important, it is not very important to have this addressed, so you cannot be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331233743	Thank you. There are no more brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331233754	Thank you. I had to go up to the platform to say that in the Danish People's Party we have not refused to hold a consultation. We think it is important that we get the answers we are asking for, and here we have not received a clear answer as to whether, if the Minister chooses to use his authority, for example. if the Minister chooses to restrict campsites or to give them an injunction or other, then compensation or compensation or how and how. So I think that the Minister for Health and the Elderly should go to the floor and say to the members of the committee that it is clear, of course, that if the Minister uses some of these powers that the Minister can use, there is a responsibility if it affects more in relation to campsites and businesses. So the recommendation is that the Minister for Health and the Elderly go up and give an answer as to whether we can be sure that it will be taken care of. And I would also appeal, if it is the Minister's intention to use the authority, to report quickly and clearly so that companies, campsites and other things can relate to what that means. These were the words of the Danish People's Party. We have therefore fully supported the consultation process and we have also asked a lot of questions in relation to what concerns campsites throughout the committee's proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331233939	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331233949	The final adoption of the draft law will be put to the vote, and I would ask the rapporteurs in the Chamber to start voting and then leave the Chamber. A vote can be taken. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' in favour of 96 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, Ulle Elbæk (UFG), Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331234457	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Thursday, 2 April 2020 at 2 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
