ParlaMint-DK_20200506100005	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 164 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on morning songs in Danish schools and upper secondary education). Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 165 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on giving children of inmates a better framework for visits). Søren Espersen (DF) and Morten Messerschmidt (DF): Request no. F 61 (What can the Foreign Minister tell us about the negotiations that took place between the United States and the Government and the Home Government of Greenland prior to the aid package from the United States to Greenland, and can the Foreign Minister further explain the United States' intentions in relation to Greenland and the Arctic and explain whether the government considers that Greenland is a third world country to which the USID should send relief packages?). Ina Strejer-Schmidt (SF) and Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF): Request no. F 62 (Does the Minister think that parents should be given the opportunity to receive sickness benefit when they have to keep their children at home, as the main trade union organization suggests, or how will the Minister ensure that parents are entitled and afford to care for their sick children until they are healthy and have been symptom-free for 48 hours, as the Health Authority prescribes, before children are to be delivered to school and day care during the corona crisis, when the child's sick days in the collective agreements correspond only to the symptom-free period?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20200506100131	Before we start the debate, I should like to point out that the Bureau has decided to change the way in which the debate is conducted. The change means that all speeches are taken out of the seats, both for ministers and rapporteurs and for the short comments. In order to prepare the minutes, it is very important that we do not start talking until the red ring on the microphone lights up and, as usual, we will be able to see the remaining speaking time at the bottom right of the voting panel. The debate is open and we are ready to start. First we give the floor to the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506100224	Thank you. I take the floor here from my place, there is a lot that for all of us is new in this time too the way we hold meetings. Now it's a little over 10, and I've already had four meetings at Skype with people from all sorts of different places in the country. And yesterday I had meetings with all my colleagues in Europe, all the telecommunications ministers. So this time really reminds us how important it is to have a strong digital infrastructure, and of course also what opportunities it offers to have one. The government believes that a strong mobile network, including 5G, is important for a modern society such as Denmark, where both business and our daily lives are becoming more and more digital. Businesses in particular can benefit from 5G. The technology is both faster and more stable than the one we know today. Therefore, it offers great opportunities for the development of new products and new solutions. I therefore share the wish of the proposers that Denmark should have a strong mobile network so that we can make maximum use of the digitalisation and reap its fruits. However, I do not believe that the proposal to create a so-called 5G pool is the right means of achieving this objective. There are already a number of Danish and European support opportunities for innovative projects and experiments with digital infrastructure, including 5G. This is true, for example. The Innovation Fund and the EU Horizon 2020 programme. On the Danish Energy Agency's website, you can actually see an overview of the support options available, among other things. 5G projects and where to search them. Therefore, the government considers that there is no need for another pool specifically for 5G projects. In Denmark, we are already at the forefront when it comes to the roll-out of digital infrastructure and the exploitation of the opportunities offered by technology. In fact, Denmark is located as no. 1 in the category connectivity on the EU digitization index. At the same time, according to the EU innovation ranking, Denmark is a leader in innovation. We are together with countries such as Sweden and Finland. All these fine locations have been achieved without State intervention and under market conditions which characterise the Danish telecommunications market. Instead, I would urge Danish companies to use our strong telecommunications infrastructure to create new innovative products and solutions and to seek the support opportunities that already exist in these efforts. The 2018 telecoms agreement also contains clear principles for the roll-out of digital infrastructure in Denmark. These are principles which all parties in the conciliation have agreed to. Firstly, it must be market-based and, secondly, regulation must be technology-neutral. The Government believes that the proposal, as put forward here, is at odds with both principles, because it is proposed that with state aid we should support demand and innovation in a particular technology, namely 5G. This is considered inappropriate by the government, since the market-based approach, which started with liberalisation in the 1990s and later confirmed itself in the telecoms settlement, is the main driving force towards the strong digital infrastructure that we have today. Creating a 5G pool requires a large sum of funds. 300 million is proposed. kr., which must come from the proceeds of the frequency auctions. In addition to the government's view that such a pool is not necessary because there are already a number of good support opportunities for, among others, 5G, it is important to note that the financing model is contrary to the 2012 Budget Act, which a broad majority in the Folketing is behind. Therefore, revenues from the frequency auction cannot be used for a new cost in the form of a 5G pool. Such a pool would have to be prioritised in the context of the financial law negotiations in line with other actions. The previous examples that exist with the earmarking of auction proceeds are all before the budget law was adopted. It would therefore be more appropriate if the proposers raised their wish in the context of the 2021 financial law negotiations. I would like to reiterate that the government believes that a strong mobile network, including the deployment of 5G, is important for innovation and growth opportunities in Denmark, including as a driving force for new green solutions. That is why we are also constantly working to support the framework conditions for roll-out of digital infrastructure, for example. 5G. The Danish Energy Agency has among other things: test frequencies issued for test areas, such as TDC; turned on the 5G grid in Elsinore. In addition, in the upcoming frequency auction, the government will make coverage requirements so that mobile operators are required to deploy 5G quickly. The Government does not believe that a specific pool should be created for 5G projects when good state and European support opportunities already exist. In addition, of course, private funds are also included. Furthermore, the Government believes that we should continue our successful market-based approach to roll-out of the mobile network in Denmark and we would recommend that those who wish to support the project take advantage of the opportunities already provided. That is why the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506100736	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506100742	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I am, of course, sorry that the proposal cannot be supported. I think the argument lags a little. It is pointed out that teleconciliation states that it is a market-based approach. We are, of course, in agreement with that, but is the Minister aware that those whom we should protect with a market-based approach and who are, after all, those who support it are the telecommunications industry, are the professional organisations? They all support this proposal. They've publicly announced that they think this is an excellent idea. Many of them have actually included it in their reboot Danish economic corona package. They think this is a good move. So typically when we talk about it being market-based, it is, among other things. to protect the market, but the market itself thinks this is an excellent idea. Then it also lags a little behind when you say that you do not want to create a state pool, but refer to the fact that there are plenty of other state pools that people can search in. It is not a breach of the market-based if it is just an EU pool or another state pool. So I actually think that the argument to say no to it lags a little, if it should be, because it has to be market-based, when you then refer to other public pools. And the market wants this. It is not the case that we go out and do something where the market then says, "Don't do it, because it destroys our investment desire." I am aware that you should not do so. But the market recommends this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506100850	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506100854	Well, you have to see the principle that it has to be market-based, linked to the principle that it has to be technology-neutral. I do not think it is possible to argue that something is market-based, that market players want it. I don't think that's how the questioner thinks you can reason. I can think of many market players who would like to have measures that are far from being market-based if they support their own business. Of course. But in addition to that, it is a breach of the budget law, plus that there are already many other pools that can be sought that meet the demand for technology neutrality. Finally, this would be a breach of the conciliation which the rapporteur's party has helped to achieve in 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506100941	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506100945	But I do not think that the argument that it should comply with the budget law should be an obstacle in these times. Well, in these coronatides, some of these aid packages have exceeded the budget law with what is it, 20 billion. kr. a month. It is not something like that on a financial law; it is something that has been made additional appropriations about afterwards. Here comes a proposal which, in fact, is very well funded, because that is the money that you get from the frequency auctions. In other words, when the telecommunications companies buy some rights to use the frequencies to create mobile networks, we use that money to make a good demand for their products by creating an innovation pool, so we find out if we can use it in, yes, it can be ambulances, it can be industry and other things. So I think it is such a rather strange argument to use right in this time at least that it should be contrary to the budget law, when we now spend several billions a month and exceed the budget law because of the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506101029	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506101031	The fact that the Corona crisis has plunged us into a specific situation that requires urgent legislation, that we organise ourselves in a way that we have not done before, and that we debt ourselves in a way that we normally would not have done, I cannot see as an argument that then all boxes are just open, and then we should not comply with the budget law anymore, of course, no longer. Now, with the initial arguments against such a pool here, I think it is a breach of the fundamental principles which the rapporteur's party itself has helped to establish in the conciliation. But even if I were not, I would still be gone for the sake of the budget law and the way we normally finance things in this country, which I think is worthwhile, think that a more correct way of doing this would have been to say: okay, that is so a wish we have in connection with the financial law negotiations. Then you can take the discussion there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506101129	There are no more inscribed to short remarks right now. We thank the Minister and start with the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Kasper Roug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506101141	Thank you for the floor. The motion for a resolution here, tabled by the Danish People's Party, proposes the creation of a 5G pool to test 5G technology so that digitalisation and green conversion are promoted. In the Social Democratic Party we agree with the proposers that 5G offers great opportunities for development both in the public and private sectors. That is why, like the Danish People's Party, we believe that we must embrace the opportunities offered by technological development, whether it be welfare technologies, green solutions or export opportunities for business. However, it appears that the proposers believe that we have lost our digital lead, and we do not really believe that we can recognise that picture. Denmark is among the most digitised societies in the world and has great rankings on international rankings. There are some grounds in the motion for a resolution that we do not agree with. Support opportunities such as the one proposed in the motion for a resolution already exist today. Support for projects such as those described in the motion for a resolution can be sought from public, European and private funds. Therefore, we do not necessarily share the view that there is a need for a 5G pool. In addition, the 2018 teleconciliation, which Dansk Folkeparti was also part of, and as the Minister has also explained, provides a clear framework for how the digital infrastructure should be rolled out. It must be technology-neutral and at market conditions, and a pool such as the one proposed, targeted at public support crowns for one particular technology, 5G, violates those principles, which, of course, we cannot support. It is possible that the proposers believe that it is Danish industry that is behind this proposal, but we still have to lead the country on the basis of clear principles so that everyone can keep up with it. Finally, problems also arise when it comes to funding, and this is where the 2012 Budget Act, as the Minister also pointed out, prevents the revenue coming from the frequency auction from being used directly in a pool. Revenue shall be distributed in the financial law negotiations. However, we in the Social Democratic Party would like to commend the interest of the Danish People's Party in strengthening the digital infrastructure, and we agree that as a country we must strengthen the demand and use of new communication solutions. Although we in the Social Democratic Party agree with the intention to seize the opportunities offered by 5G technology, we cannot support the motion for a resolution, with the arguments mentioned above and mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506101420	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506101424	Well, the list of what you can use this for is long, and the potential is huge. I really just want to hear what the Social Democrats have to say about how we reap this potential. As far as I know, Britain has created a pool of 2 billion. kr., and this is a proposal for a pool of 300 million. kr., that is, a much smaller pool, but after all, a step in the direction that we would like to take, so that we can reap some gains from this new technology. For this can be achieved largely in all sectors, and we can also use it to bring about a greener society. You can use it for a lot of good things, and it is not just such an initiative where we start researching what we can use it for, which is then opposed by the Socialists. So how do you imagine that you will be able to reap the benefits when you cannot be researched into how you can use this technology in practical terms, i.e. whether it is in the health sector, the energy sector or in self-propelled cars? Yeah, it could be anything we can use this for. But I guess we need to get these practical experiences, so we know. So what is the Social Democrats' bid for how we can reap these gains when it is not researching it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506101525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506101529	After all, the Danish People's Party must be aware that these processes are already under way. After all, the rapporteur himself has been involved in the preliminary negotiations and the preliminary talks on what we need 5G for and what we can use it for. I would also like to point out that, of course, we have already been on a study trip to Sweden with the Business Committee, where we were just looking at 5G and where we were hoping that the Swedes would be further ahead, so that it might give some inspiration, but where it turned out that we were actually exactly on their heels. So the process is already going on, and it is already now that we are examining the possibility of what we can use 5G technology for. So the process is now going on, and I hope that the Danish People's Party will support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506101616	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506101623	I'm sorry to say this a little bluntly, but that's a thin answer. The Social Democrats want to get it started by going on a study trip to Sweden to gain some knowledge, and then when you come back to the Folketing, you will not want anything, because it is a breach of the market-based principle that something is being researched. I think it's thin if you want to go on a study trip to see what other countries are doing. So Denmark does not come to the forefront by seeing what the others are doing. ♪ We're gonna ♪
ParlaMint-DK_20200506101647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506101651	Oh, I think perhaps the rapporteur is distorting my words a little. The point is that we're also front runners in this area, and now it's going on in the 5G area. Research is already going on in this area, we already have the test areas, and we are of course agreed that Denmark must also try to be as much at the forefront as possible with regard to the digital infrastructure that is necessary. There are great perspectives in the 5G. There is no doubt about that, we only agree on this and I am only happy that the Danish People's Party will play a part in the wealth of ideas that should come out of it. So let's just get out of the steppes and figure out how to do this best, also in relation to 5G, and then we'll figure out how to get Denmark right in front of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506101735	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506101747	Thank you. In the Left we have an ambition that Denmark should be a digital pioneering country. If this ambition is to be met, it is necessary that we have a world-class digital infrastructure. This means that there is good mobile coverage across the country, that all companies and homes have access to broadband connections and that we are among those countries where the new technological opportunities are most likely to come into play. This is the prerequisite for continuing growth and development throughout the country as the digitalisation of society grows. The Corona crisis has also reminded us of how crucial a well-functioning digital infrastructure is. That is why we are also proud that in May 2018 under the VLAK government a new teleconciliation was concluded, covering all parties in the Danish Parliament, where the vision for telecommunications policy is that Denmark should have the best roll-out and the best telepolitics framework for using digital infrastructure, including that Denmark should be a leader in relation to 5G technology. 5G will provide much higher data speeds than we know from the existing mobile network. At the same time, the 5G networks will allow much more equipment to be connected on the Internet at the same time. Finally, 5G will provide significantly better reliability and quality, allowing mobile networks to be used for completely new purposes. There will be among other things. mentioned that it will be central to the green transition, where elements such as smart meters and things like that will have to be included, that we will have a good 5G network rolled out. Unfortunately, the government has not done a great deal to achieve the goal of teleconciliation that Denmark should be a leader in relation to 5G technology. The government was also very foot-timing when it came to extending the broadband pool, and the understanding paper did not say much about how we should proceed with the ambitious digitisation that has taken place in recent years. We therefore also have a great understanding of the Danish People's Party's proposal and welcome the fact that we are raising the debate on how to move forward with our common goal of being a pioneer country in terms of digitalisation. We also share the regret that research and development activities in 5G in Denmark are not sufficiently active in relation to the other Nordic countries. Among other things, it was... illustrated in a report from the Nordic Council in the autumn, which showed that Denmark is actually lagging behind when it comes to research and development in 5G. So we fully agree with the analysis from the Danish People's Party that something needs to be done in this area. Although we agree with the objective, we do not entirely agree with the means. In recent years, we in the Left have been working to reduce the number of state pools. Therefore, we do not think that the right way is to allocate funds to a new pool. Instead, we will try to prioritise the area in the context of the negotiations on the research reserve and the Finance Act, which other parties have also mentioned in the past. We are very pleased with the signals that came that one is willing to talk about how we can strengthen 5G when it comes to these debates this autumn, so we look forward to that very much. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506102030	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506102035	Thank you for your speech and for the positive elements that were in it. One can, of course, table amendments to a resolution, so I really want to hear what the position of the Left is about making an amendment to this. Then the wording could be something like we saw, instead of creating a pool directly for this, simply saying that we will increase the pool, to which reference is made, in the Finance Act by 300 million. kr., and then we could get a text saying that we are committed to each other, that we will then relate to that. Could that be a solution? Because I have no particular desire for it to be exactly my resolution if, in return, we only get the policy implemented. So it could be a possibility that we simply changed the wording of the resolution so that we do what the Left wants, so that we can simply get the money off to the area? It may be through this motion for a resolution, but I do not object to it being in a later debate either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506102120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506102124	Of course, we always look positively at all proposals coming from the Danish People's Party. The mandate I have obtained is that we agree with the wish and that we include it among our wishes in negotiating the research reserve. But I look favourably at all the proposals that come from the Danish People's Party when they move in the right direction, as I think it does, namely that we look at something more and invest something more in our digitisation, because that is really what we really need.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506102149	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506102152	Thank you. I'd like to ask you something else too. The government's argument for rejecting it is that it is a breach of the market-based. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur from the Left thinks that research into something is a breach of the market-based approach. I could understand it if you supported something, for example. a roll-out of broadband or mobile technology. But you're researching something. If we take the healthcare sector, it may be live transmission from an ambulance in HD quality, or it may be a drone that has a heart starter that is connected to 5G so you can fly quickly to people. Is it really a breach of the market-based fact that we are researching how we can get a health sector that can quickly help people in the emergency response? At any rate, I find it difficult to see that research into the technologies of the future is a breach of some market-based approach. We do that in all sorts of areas. So I just want to know if the Left is buying that premise too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506102234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506102238	I also find it somewhat difficult to follow that argument, I must admit, that it is a breach of the market-based that we are increasing research and development in a particular technology. But we have to look at the government's arguments. Nor is that the argument we are using when we want it to be included in the overall priorities later this year. It is because we believe that this can be dealt with within the existing structures and that it makes more sense to have it where you can think it together with the structures we already have. So no. I would say that I have more concerns than if the market-based approach is respected in relation to our telecommunications solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506102313	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Ruben Kidde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506102321	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I think it is a good focus with 5G, and I know that this is something the rapporteur cares a lot about and has been fighting for too long. In the Radical Left, we certainly believe that 5G is a very, very exciting technology which can be used for many different purposes. And we also appreciate the fact that the proposers emphasise the green perspectives in it. Nevertheless, we cannot vote in favour of the proposal for the reasons and the arguments that have already been put forward, on the one hand, on the financing of it and, on the other hand, on some possible challenges in relation to the interpretation of the nature of telecommunications conciliation. However, what is perhaps even more important for the Radical Left in our approach to strategic research is that we do not support the development of specific technologies because individual technology is not the end in itself. So we would really like more money for research, both for free basic research and also for innovation and the promotion of green conversion. That is why we have also proposed in our Green Restart Package to give a boost within the Innovation Fund to the green pool called research and innovation solutions for green conversion, which we propose to double, and there I am sure there will be many good 5G projects that will be able to benefit from it if they have quality. So praise for having a strategic focus on 5G, but precisely this proposal on the terms that are being put forward, we cannot vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506102517	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506102521	First of all, thank you for the positive comments on the proposal and for the overall view that it is also a good area to gain some knowledge. Now there is the debate that we cannot support it because it is a breach of telecommunications conciliation; that it should be market-based. But I understood from the radical rapporteur that it would be helpful to do something similar if it were to be done, for example. Just was within the Innovation Fund or the negotiations that are running there. So if you do it in the way I write in my resolution, it is a breach of teleconciliation, but if you do it through another debate or through another pool, it is not a breach of teleconciliation. In other words, it is mostly just to get rid of the argument that it should be a breach of the market-based, if you do so by means of a motion for a resolution, which refers to a financing that comes from the frequency auctions, and then you should not do it with another financing, it is not a breach of the market-based. So it is not because it is the rapporteur who has made that argument, but does the rapporteur understand what the logic is in that it is a break with one funding but not with the other funding?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506102614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506102617	So, my main point and that of the Radical Left is that we should not have too many new pools, but that we should use the pools that exist for innovation and projects in the field of green conversion and green research. We need to increase them, and this must be within the existing pools where there are excellent opportunities within the Innovation Fund. And it is just like our approach that when we get increased and hopefully put even more money in there, 5G research and green initiatives can also win out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506102650	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær apostates. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506102709	Thank you for the floor and also thank you to the Danish People's Party for making this proposal. The roll-out of the 5G network has given rise to many discussions of different professional and factual nature and also of different quality, I would say, but we are pleased that the Danish People's Party today in a factual and good way focuses on what the future network can and must be used for. After all, 5G is crucial to the critical infrastructure of the future, and we in Denmark must start rolling out the next generation of networks. That is why we in the SF actually share the desire to promote new technologies and the development of future digital solutions. And then I would like to congratulate the Danish People's Party on the climate aspect of this proposal. I am actually thrilled that the Danish People's Party is involved, because if we can boost the CO2 reduction and the climate struggle in general with the help of the next generation of mobile networks, I am sure that it will be thrilled by a wide range of industries where new opportunities unfold in parallel with the roll-out of 5G. We have also been in contact with Danish Business, which confirms that this is a good proposal, and they highlight some of the same points in the climate partnership. A bid is also mentioned as to how the pool is to be financed, and we have had a discussion about this. We immediately thought that was a very good offer. I understand that this is supposed to be a breach of teleconciliation, and we must try to examine that in the committee's examination of this proposal, but it is clear that we are not prepared to break a settlement. But in return, I would like to shake hands with the Danish People's Party that, if we can somehow lift it into the settlement, we would like to support the Danish People's Party in the fight for this to become a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506102854	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506102910	Thank you for your suggestion. I think it is important to have the political debate on how we can strengthen our digital infrastructure at all. So I very much agree with that part. When you look beyond Denmark and what kind of a situation we are in, even technologically, I think, and that is my starting point, that the biggest challenge, at least in relation to the networks, is that there is still such insanely poor coverage in our rural areas in many places. I know it is a concern we share with the rapporteur, and there I have to say that I really think that where we are, even with the technological opportunities we have now, the money would be much better spent by knocking up proper broadband in many more of our rural areas and rolling out some more fiber. In fact, I believe that many more people would benefit from this and that it would also generally support opportunities for the development of homework, etc. around our country. So it is not the budget law or conciliation that is pressing me, I would say, it is more the political assessment, so I simply think that we are too far behind in relation to ordinary basic coverage for ordinary citizens, and there I still do not see that 5G technology is what can deliver it, but that, on the contrary, there is more need to develop the structure we have now. It would be our preference to spend this kind of money on it instead. Against this background, it can be said, we will not support the proposal. Having said that, however, I certainly think that the research aspects of what is necessary are important. After all, there is already some research in the field of research, among other things. These demonstration programmes we have, in other words, in strategic research, and there are some possibilities, and I think we should also look at how to strengthen them. I am also pleased that the green aspect is being mentioned, just as there are clearly development potentials in the field of health. There are also some very important ethical discussions which we must also have taken politically in the future. So I think it's worth coming back to see how we can strengthen this. But compared to just pumping 300 million. kr. I would say that we can do this in a way that benefits more people. Here in the proposal, the Danish People's Party measures it very much against how developments are in the other Nordic countries, and there I think one should just be aware that in Sweden and Finland etc. there are some extremely large companies that are driving on 5G technology, and we don't have that in Denmark, so no matter that we pump a pool into this, I don't think we're going to stand in the same place and be that far ahead in the shoes that way. So I think we need to think differently here, and there I think it is extremely important that we focus more on putting the political guidelines on what we are going to do with this. For one thing, technological development is about 5G, but when we are faced with having to use it deep inside our health care system, and when you use the technology for driverless cars, it also raises a lot of political and moral dilemmas for which, frankly, I do not think we are well prepared. So I would very warmly support that we generally get the helmet a little more tense in the Folketing and get the political discussions. So thank you for raising the subject, but on this basis it is not what I think is the most important or the most sensible use of the money right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506103251	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mona Juul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506103301	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for the motion for a resolution. I'll be very brief. I love 5G, and I look forward to it, and I look forward to it getting really started. We even have a teleconciliation from 2018 about being a leader, and I am therefore very pleased that the Danish People's Party with today's motion for a resolution has brought the subject to the fore. We fully agree that right now we are lagging a little behind at 5G and that from now on it can only go too slowly to get into gear. Denmark must and must be a leader in new technology, and we must take advantage of our unique and innovative and creative approach to precisely technology, because that is where we can separate ourselves, that is where we can make a very big difference. We therefore fully support the very good intentions, but we would like to see action prioritised through the research reserve, instead of making a pool for ourselves, because there are many of them already, and so we risk too much bureaucracy going into it. When we revolutionize our digital capabilities with 5G, let's do it the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506103401	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the New Citizens' rapporteur, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506103412	Thank you for the floor. Specifically, it is proposed to create a new pool of 300 million. kr. to test 5G technology. In new citizens, of course, we generally welcome increased digitisation and the introduction of new technologies in the telecommunications sector, but we are opposed to a new special tax funded grant pool which goes beyond the research funds already allocated. The motion for a resolution describes a wide range of specific areas of application for 5G which can be supported, including: self-propelled cars, intelligent traffic solutions, ensuring that agriculture sprays more accurately, and 5G-coupled ambulances. In New Citizens, we are more in favour of private initiative. The state sets the framework, but it does not have to be detailed and plan-economic pick the winner. B 90 will therefore only increase the amount of tax-financed grants. Financing is proposed to come from revenues from the sale of old frequencies, such as: to be used for the establishment of the 5G network. It was better to leave more of the money in the industry and allow them to make the necessary progress. To the extent that research is to be carried out in the public domain, the money must be found within the existing research funds through priority. In other words, we would rather see public subsidies reduced and taxes reduced, not least for the Danish business community, that is the right way to go. Therefore, new citizens cannot support B 90.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506103536	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506103548	Thank you for the floor. After all, it is important that Denmark remains a pioneer country in terms of digital development and conversion. We have been for many years, and now we are also reaping the benefits of this time when we need to find new ways of working and meeting under the circumstances. The developments that have taken place in Denmark up to now have been mainly market driven, and we stress that it remains so, so only by the way in which the market-driven principle is, so to speak, undermined by this proposal makes us somewhat sceptical. But above all, we are sceptical about pools. In October 2018, a unanimous Parliament, which means the Danish People's Party, entered into an agreement with the then Minister for Public Innovation to limit pools, and this was not least after a very strong wish from us in LA, so we were pleased about that. Pools have very high so-called transaction costs, which means that they consume time to write applications, to judge the supply, typically have to be reported on an ongoing basis, and eventually they have to be closed, and it is usually with the help of an accountant, which also helps to raise transaction costs. That's why all the parliamentary parties a few years ago agreed to try to keep the amount of pools down. The consequence is, of course, that the resources allocated by the State are to a considerable extent eaten up by purposes other than those for which the pool is actually allocated, and this should generally be quite critical. So the need for market-driven development and scepticism about pools as an instrument means that we cannot support resolution No. B 90. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506103753	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506103804	Thank you. It's kind of a weird situation to talk to people who are behind and around you, but we have to live with that situation. But first of all, thank you for the debate. I can see that the proposal will probably not be voted through, because everyone was opposed to it. However, I think there were a lot of positive statements on the matter itself anyway. The reason for the proposal is, of course, that digitalisation is extremely strong both in Denmark and, as such, throughout the world. Denmark has been in a leading position in making digital solutions, but we have started to lag behind this new technology, and I think it is important that we get on the bus again, because there are incredibly big gains in being at the front, both in productivity and in how we can make green solutions, and other things. I think it is quite obvious that public opinion is helping to research the solutions that can bring so many good gains. So how do we get the most out of these new technologies? We propose that it might be a solution to create such an innovation pool, where something could be devoted to agriculture, something could be devoted to the health care sector, it could be different areas. It does not necessarily have to be an application pool in which all sorts of different small players should seek; it could be that you, for example, have to apply. Said they gave 30 million. kr. to a university that was given 30 million. kr. e.g. SEGES, and then they could be allowed to do the research. After all, organisations are already researching things. In this way we could create a lot of practical experience, and that could be all sorts of things. It could be self-propelled cars, intelligent traffic solutions that reduce congestion and climate congestion. It could be in companies where you don't have to pull cables over to your large machines, but can connect them wirelessly, which clearly gives a lot of benefits when you're not about to pull the cables, but also makes a future production might be more mobile because you can almost move around on the machines because you are not statically tied by the fact that you have pulled the cable to one station. It could also be robots that are used in production. In agriculture, it could be that you could spray more accurately and thus pollute less, or you could get a greener energy sector. I have already mentioned the health sector in some of my brief remarks. Try to imagine such a 5G-coupled heart starter that can be quickly carried out to someone who is in trouble. It's obvious that we're doing research on these solutions and finding out how we can use this technology to save lives. The list is incredibly long and the potential is huge. So there are just mega-productivity gains in this, which means that Denmark can have a good competitiveness in the future too, if you think about the industry. The pack proposed then amounts to 300 million. kr., and it could then be less or more. In other words, I can live with it if we could draw up a joint report on this, where we refer to the negotiations which will later come up for a research reserve or an innovation fund that we are looking at. I think that can be a good thing. The aim is not for me to have the DF resolution voted through; it is, in fact, that we agree on a common direction so that we get the best out of this new 5G technology. So whether we do it in one forum or another is not crucial, but it is more that we set a direction for Denmark, because I am well aware that this is not such a bestseller out there, but that is why it may be important for us anyway. I also think it is obvious that if we go in this direction, what I really think it sounds like there is support for this overall, even though one does not of course agree with the specific motion for a resolution that we use the climate as one of the criteria for researching this. Because there's just a lot of winnings to get there, too. In fact, I think it might be thought into such a corona context. After all, there are several business organisations that have proposed this here as part of the recovery of the Danish economy. That is why I think it is appropriate to enter into the negotiations which come at some point in time and which have actually begun so little. I understand that there is a resistance to funding it. I think it is an obvious cross-financing. It's the telecommunications companies that naturally give some money to buy a button resource, which are these frequencies they can make their mobile networks on. That money's just historically gone into the box. I think it is obvious that we are spending the money to stimulate the demand for digitalisation services, as is also the case here. You do not break with the market-based, but you make it, so there is a demand for the products offered by the telecommunications companies. This will also give them an interest in getting further into the country, which the Enhedslisten is asking for. Because when you demand digitalisation, there will also be an interest in investing something more in it and going into rural areas, because there must also be a heart starter and there may also have to be a self-driving car. In this way, we actually support the market-based, at least as I see it. So I do not quite buy the premise that this would be a breach of the market-based, but of course we can have a closer look at this in committee. At any rate, I will try to have what comes from the conciliation carried out in committee, but I will also see whether I cannot obtain a majority for a joint report, where we can then set a direction on it and perhaps refer to some subsequent negotiations. It may be financial law negotiations, or it may be some funds or some other way we can get it upset. Because, as I have listened to, there is no disagreement that this is an important area, that it is important that we take advantage of the potentials of 5G technology. So if we can do it in a different way, in spite of everything, we can put a ship in the lake, you can say, and then we can look at how we get it implemented later, it is also an acceptable solution for the Danish People's Party. But thank you for the debate at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506104315	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506104327	But that is just to ask the rapporteur to clarify it a little more. Now a little bit was said about it, but how did you actually imagine such a pool to actually work in practice? After all, it is not only research that is being proposed here, as I hear it, it is also to a very large extent such different programmes or experimental schemes or experiments that could be just as supportive of companies rolling it out, or how? Is it mainly research that we are talking about, or is it in fact essentially experiment, or how do you see it? And who would that be? I think it is good to have the openness that you can do it in a different way, but how is it originally intended? Who would like to be the wrestlers, that this was actually also some meaningful experiments, etc.? How do you plan on doing that? Then maybe I'll just have one more addition. I would like to hear the rapporteur's position on this. Because if you start taking elements of it into the research negotiations, I think it is important that additional resources and money are included. There is not too much money to run ahead with in the field of research, so I think it is important that there should be an extra injection. I would like to hear the rapporteur's position on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506104436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506104440	Let me take the last one first. I agree that if you put this in the research reserve, you have to bring more money, otherwise you starve some of the other. In fact, I also have the impression that there is such a broad majority in the Folketing that there is a need for more money for research into green solutions, where I then also try to sell it as part of the green solution. I agree that this could be a way of raising that amount. Now you don't want to cross-finance this money that you get from the frequency auctions, and it just goes into the Treasury. But then there is the money in the treasury when you come to financial law negotiations. So you could do the funding in a different way anyway. I agree with that. Whether it's research or practical solutions I think it's connected. I mean, it's kind of both, but it's supposed to end up in practical solutions at least. I think it is obvious, for example, that we should be able to do something about it. led SEGES to stand for the part relating to agriculture. How could they do some research, but also hopefully some practical solutions that you can use out there, so that you sprayed more accurately and thus used less spray poison, which is good for our environment? In the health sector, it could be that some people could be researched and found practical solutions, for example. compared to this with a drone with a heart starter or get some technology into the ambulances, so you can live transmit in a high quality HD, i.e. high quality, and get video directly into the emergency clinic so you can start early with the treatment, because you can diagnose and get data out of the way pretty quickly. There's plenty of good stuff you can use this 5G technology for. So it is, of course, research into solutions, but it should also be practical solutions. It's supposed to end up with something that's tangible out there that you can use.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506104604	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506104609	I think that, in my view, there is also a slight difference between who will then get a share in such a pool of money. If it is first and foremost companies, or if it is, for example, companies. I am thinking, however, that they may also have that incentive anyway. I think again that it may not be us who need to drive it. But to do so, for example. I clearly see health as a very important public task. So there will also be a little difference, I think, on where it makes sense. That's why it's nice to have it described a little more clearly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506104645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506104649	I certainly think that if you take the industry, it is not the case that it should be the individual company that necessarily gets money to change the production plant in their industry. That is not the purpose of it. But for example... Herning now I know it myself, because I have been a member of the council who used to be an organisation called DAMRC, which researches such robotics and helps companies with how they can use it. They can come and see some shows and get some guidance on how to change their production. It could be such a similar organization, which then had some research on how to use 5G technology in a production. Then companies can get there and get some inspiration and get some guidance. So it should not be aid to the individual company, but it could be SEGES for agriculture and not the individual farmer, or it could be a university that researches the health sector. Or it may then be such a public institution as DAMRC, which researches production technologies. That is the angle I am thinking of and not direct support for the individual farmer or for LEGO or Grundfos. It's more that there are some organizations that show the way, compared to what you can use this for. Then the others can get inspiration and bring it out to exactly their level.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506104750	Thank you. Then the Minister has asked for the floor, and the Minister can always do so, so there are three minutes for the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506104758	Thank you. It is just to stress that it should not appear as if the government is opposed to the development and roll-out of 5G, on the contrary. I think I also explained in my speech a number of the initiatives that we have already taken. Denmark is a pioneer country when it comes to digital infrastructure. We must continue to be. I also agree with the objectives highlighted by the rapporteur with very great potential. That is also why there are actually very many places in which money can be sought for precisely those things. There are very good funding opportunities for those very things now. Then, of course, we can say: that is not enough; we want even more money for it. That is fair enough, but one cannot simply say that we should therefore simply break the budget law. So perhaps it was just to come up with such an open question as those in this Chamber who have agreed with the rapporteur may well have to ask themselves: do you have a mandate for it in your own party, that is, that the budget law no longer applies because you think it would be a good idea to create a new pool? I mean, the budget law applies. If you still want more money, you can go other ways to find it, and then of course we will be happy to discuss it, just as we in the conciliation circle will of course also be happy to discuss new initiatives on how to do things better. But the right way to do that, if we want to provide an amount of money for what the rapporteur is proposing, in addition to the money that already exists now, must of course be to go through the financial law negotiations. I don't want this to sound very hard, but I don't think it's so serious just to say, well, but don't worry about the budget law. Well, I guess we're gonna have to respect the laws we make in this hall. Shouldn't we agree on that as a starting point? But as I said, all honour and respect for taking up the matter. We fully support the intentions. Only yesterday I had a meeting with the other telecommunications ministers in the European Union about this, where I also mentioned the unfolding and roll-out of digital infrastructure, including 5G, as part of what we should be aiming for in a recovery package for the European Union; in other words, we need to provide more opportunities to seek money for such projects around the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506105024	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506105028	Thank you for taking the floor again. It gets a little comical when you can see in today's newspapers that Denmark, under the current government, has established a debt of 190 billion. kr. in the Corona crisis, which is not part of any budget law or any financial law, and here there is cross-financing from the industry itself at 300 million. kr. And we could, in principle, wait until 1 January, after the next Finance Act, so that it is actually incorporated into a Finance Act. Then the problem is solved. I can't believe that this would be one of the main arguments for not doing anything and then the rest of us would be financially irresponsible if we thought that 300 million could be spent. kr. in research, but if you start a debt of 190 billion. kr., there's no problem, is there? It's gonna be a little lame, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506105108	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506105111	Well, listen to me. Let us say that what is becoming the standard now is that because we have kept our hands under Danish economics and made aid packages, which, incidentally, are broadly supported in the Folketing, all ideas that one might get into pools of a few hundred million kroner for good purposes are something one can then just put into practice. Because there is no longer anything called budgetary discipline. There is no longer any mention of meeting the requirements of the budget law. There is no longer any mention of making a financial law that you then follow. I do not think that is the way we should conduct politics. If I was the rapporteur it may not be for me to say that I think I would look at it so that it is perhaps a very good thing that we agree on the intentions of this, that perhaps it is a very good thing that we have agreed to actually create quite considerable opportunities to seek money for exactly the purposes for which the rapporteur proposes to apply. In addition, I am also actively working in the European Union right now to provide even better opportunities for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506105204	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506105207	But it's the minister who's setting the standard in this. It is the Minister who insinuates that it is the Danish People's Party that is financially irresponsible because we are making a proposal that does not comply with the budget law. In fact, there is good cross-financing here, there is funding for it. It comes from the money from the frequency auctions, which will be held later this year, so it cannot be started until the frequency auctions have been held, so we know what the amount is. So it will probably be after a financial law anyway, and then it will be incorporated into a finance law, and then it is just like in place. Then the Minister is teasing back again by saying that we ourselves have been involved in financing all the aid packages without having any cross-financing. It's just the law. You can do that. I'm not the one who's trying to pull the debate down. In fact, here is a serious resolution with cross-financing, so we have funded our things.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506105245	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506105249	No, that is simply not how we work here in the Folketing. Surely it is not the case that we are now making a decision which we then agree to be the first partial agreement. Should we then, in this Chamber today, make the first partial agreement in the Finance Act for next year? Is that what the rapporteur is proposing? I think that this is a little rationalization on the part of the rapporteur, because perhaps the consequences of what is actually being proposed have not been fully thought out. But I can at least say from the government that we are going to work on this good objective, and then it must be up to the rapporteur himself, to what extent we want to adhere to the model that has been proposed here, despite the fact that it goes against the budget law, despite the fact that, if you dig into it, it goes against at least part of the principles that apply in the conciliation, and despite the fact that we in Denmark have such a great success as we have, because since the 1990s we have paid tribute to the principle of technology neutrality. I think it's for the questioner's own account. I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506105348	Thank you. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Climate, Energy and Supply. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506105418	I should also like to point out here, before we start the debate, that it has been decided in the Bureau to change the way in which the debate is being conducted. The amendment means that all the speeches, both the Minister and all the rapporteurs and the brief comments, will be taken from the seats. And for the purpose of drawing up the minutes, it is very important that you do not start talking until the red ring on the microphone lights up, and as usual you will be able to see the remainder of your speaking time at the bottom right of the panel. The debate is open and I give the floor first to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506105501	Thank you for that and thank you to the SF for the proposal. The SF proposal deals with the possibility for municipalities and municipal companies to offer individual heat solutions. I understand the proposal in the sense that SF wants municipalities to have a more active role in phasing out oil and natural gas pine in favour of individual heat pumps, for example. The rapporteur does not nod, but we have to see. I think that's how I'm supposed to read it. The government has already set an ambitious target with regard to the climate of the future, and it is clear that this is not an easy task. That is why it is always very well received when we get good proposals on how to achieve this. It is from citizens, climate partnerships, the Climate Council, business and, of course, above all from political colleagues. So much for the proposal. The municipalities are already taking a great deal of responsibility in relation to the climate challenge, no doubt about it, and for this the municipalities should be thanked. In addition, more policy measures have been taken in recent years to ensure that we promote the replacement of polluting natural gas and oil burners at national level. In fact, I have just looked at the figures and it turns out that in the last five years the number of heat pumps being installed has more than doubled. We've gone from approx. 5,000 a year in 2015 to 11,000 a year in 2019. The fact that we have seen such a sharp increase in the number of heat pumps is not least the result of the political agreements that have been made at the latest in the 2018 energy agreement, where funds were set aside to support the replacement of oil boiler with heat pumps and for energy savings in private homes, which has also led to more heat pumps. In addition, we have lowered the electric heating tax, which makes heating with heat pumps cheaper. These are agreements that the SF has also supported. Many oil pine are found in rural areas, and an over-representation of households with oil pine has low incomes. This means that an investment in a heat pump can be a challenge. I know that the Parliamentary Committee on Rural and Islands is also concerned about this. The aid pool for converting oil pine means that a large one-off payment is not necessary when replacing the oil pine with a heat pump. Instead, you can get a heat pump on subscription, which typically requires a one-time payment of between 25,000 and 30,000 DKK. I would not rule out the possibility that the SF's proposal could give further impetus to the conversions, and there should be no doubt that I fully agree with SF that we should go beyond the steppes. We must remember that the municipalities already have the possibility of obtaining derogations so that they can offer individual supply at demonstration level. In addition, municipalities can support a switch to heat pumps through information meetings on alternative forms of heating and an offer of a so-called energy screen. I and my ministry have recently worked hard on a proposal for a climate action plan, a plan which can support both the objectives of the Climate Act and which, in the light of the covid-19 situation, can help to boost the activities of society. Here we see, among other things. also on possible measures to promote the phasing-out of oil and natural gas pine, as it is of course essential that there are green alternatives to which citizens can switch and that the alternative is to pay, including for citizens in rural areas without access to district heating. The district heating is an obvious alternative in the areas where the houses are close. Danish district heating is already very climate-friendly, and it will only become more climate-friendly, the closer we get to 2030. In other areas, on the other hand, electric heat pumps will be the preferred alternative. If we do nothing, by 2030 there will probably be some 360,000-390,000 natural gas and oil pine left in Denmark, and that is obviously far too many, and that is why it is important that we act in this area. I fully agree with the SF that we have to go beyond the steppes. The phasing out of natural gas and oil burners is an important element in the transition to a climate-neutral society. In the near future, the government will present proposals for a climate plan that will address this issue. Then, of course, we will have to engage in important political discussions, where I certainly expect the SF to include this proposal so that we can discuss it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506105934	Thank you. There is one brief comment and it is from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506105944	Thank you to the Minister and also thank you for including this issue in the climate plan negotiations. However, I think that is a recognition, even though I had naturally hoped that the Minister would have said: we are now going into this today. Because there is a challenge in rural areas to be able to finance it. Then the Minister could be a little sharper on what these fundamental considerations are, but they do not just say: this is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506110010	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506110014	In general, one should be quite careful when giving municipalities the opportunity to enter and be players in markets. Having said that, we are also in a peculiar situation; we have some challenges in this country if we are to achieve the very ambitious objectives that we have set ourselves that make us think out of the box. And that is why we would also like to help to see whether there are ways of enabling municipalities to play a greater role here, without compromising on the basic principles that we normally have for when the public, including municipalities, can be actors out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506110049	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506110053	Could the Minister clarify what basic principles we should not compromise on in relation to what the municipalities can do? In other words, as I see it, but now it is also I who tabled the proposal that this allows for green conversion, it gives the citizens of these areas outside the major cities a stable and reliable solution and also a solution where they do not have to get rid of a great deal of money at once, because it is well known that you cannot borrow in rural areas. So what is the Minister's response to the citizens who find it difficult to finance this out here in rural areas and which we all have a clear expectation of replacing their oil pine?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506110138	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506110142	In other words, one of the things that must at least be included in such an analysis is how the market actually works, as it is now, on private terms and with the opportunities for aid and so on. And, in fact, the figures are quite positive; they are actually going quite well in the right direction. It is clear that there is still a great challenge, and that is why we need to look at further initiatives, but when we see a market that is actually quite well functioning and where private players out there have actually been able to deliver good solutions too, then it is at least first necessary to analyse whether we can go further down that road. Then there is the issue of the municipalities and the principle that is being asked. Well, it is clear that if you ask a municipality to be very active or to allow it to be very active in a private market and thus also take commercial risks, you are also putting those risks on the citizens. I am not saying that should be excluded in all cases, but I say at least that one should be quite careful about it. Because, as the questioner rightly says, there are some citizens who will benefit from it. Yes, yes, but there are also some citizens who will, if necessary, have to pay, especially if the investments go wrong, but I am sure the questioner himself is aware of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506110252	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506110254	I think that we should look not only at how the market works, but also at how the planning works, and at the tasks of a future-proof heat supply that market players do not solve, and where the municipalities are hampered by the fact that it should be a collective heat supply and not something that is a little more individualised. The proposal made by the government on 1 May, with a focus on 2,600 general housing with oil pine, is in the pipeline, as I read it, that it is the Landsbygningsfonden that is to finance it. I find this motion for a resolution interesting because, instead of choosing a municipality to plan the solution, what is the risk in the local area that the municipality will have to come up with a common solution for some general housing which will then have their oil boiler replaced with a more up-to-date solution? So I would like to hear from the Minister whether we could try to deal with this motion for a resolution when we have to deal with the oil pine which is in the general sector and whether it could be financed in a different way than with the Fund's money.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506110400	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506110402	As I said, we are very happy to see these things in the negotiations, so it is not the case that I am sweeping anything off the table here today at all. On the contrary, I welcome the fact that we are bringing these discussions with us when we come to draw up climate action plans. In relation to the negotiations we have on the Landsbygningsfonden and the possibility of replacing the oil guys in the general sector, and perhaps also the gas guys in the general sector, which some people have been suggesting, I think we should also look at it broadly. Because I think that the rapporteur, if not in this speech, but at least elsewhere, has argued that one can see a small paradox in the fact that the tenants are in charge of financing somewhere else that will be financed through grants. So we certainly need to have that discussion. It is not necessarily the same as not having to do so, but if so, there must be a good reason why we should enter with our eyes open. But I'd really like to take a look at all those dimensions of it. I would also just like to remind you that the fact that, if necessary, the municipalities will be given the opportunity to do something is not the same as the fact that it will happen. It's not the same thing as everybody's gonna do it. After all, we have such a challenge that we would like to find solutions that we were quite sure would also be implemented everywhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506110526	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen apostates. There are no more brief comments, so we are grateful to the Minister and we are ready to proceed with the rapporteur's line. The first is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506110538	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the SF for presenting this resolution, because in my view and in the view of the Social Democrats, the issue described by the SF is very real and it is part of the reality that is out there in rural areas. You don't necessarily have to go where the crows turn, but just out there on the other side of where the district heating gets before you get to this problem. We have in the vicinity of 70,000 homes in Denmark, which are heated with oil pine, and here in the Danish Parliament we have decided that the oil guys should be phased out by 2030. So people out there have a real problem, because what are they going to choose as an alternative? As it looks right now, there are really only two options: either that you choose to replace the oil fired with a wood pellets pine or that you have a heat pump installed instead. After all, we have an interest in getting as many people as possible onto the electric drive and therefore it makes good sense to install heat pumps. In recent years it has been possible to get heat pumps on a subscription system which is very similar to that of urban people for district heating. And that means that you can avoid investing perhaps up to DKK 140,000. in a full installation, but can be content with a starting fee, to which the Minister also refers, to DKK 25-30,000. and then pay a flat-rate fee. But there is now that a great many of the homeowners we are talking about live in areas with low house prices and perhaps with many empty homes, and therefore the homeowners may have difficulty in financing a replacement of their oil boiler. This puts people in rural areas in an extremely difficult situation. So we in the Social Democratic Party are in complete agreement with the problem formulation and that a solution needs to be found, but when we come to the solutions, the problem with the SF's proposal is that it is to this extent that it should not be the national companies that offer the so-called near-heat, but that it should be the municipality or the municipal utility that should have that opportunity. That is not possible today, according to the municipal authority, and it is also for me to see an unanswered question as to whether it is wise to let the municipalities' taxpayers put their backs on such a scheme. That is why the message from the Social Democrats is that we are positive about helping to find a solution to the problem described by the proposers, and we are very happy to engage in a dialogue in the committee work to find a solution, but we cannot support the fact that it is the taxpayers of the municipalities who have to pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506110828	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Carsten Kissmeyer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506110836	Thank you for the floor. After all, this resolution is about replacing oil pine with heat pump on subscription to rural areas. There is no doubt that we in the Left want to phase out the oil pine, and we also agree that it can be economically difficult for people living in rural areas to afford it and get it funded. After all, the still active oil pine is mainly located, as the SF also says, in the thinner populated areas, and it is the case that there are also falling house prices and falling property values, and it is difficult to obtain loan financing. So a subscription scheme is a good idea. The proposers imagine that this can be done by giving the municipalities the opportunity to establish heat supply companies offering individual heat supply. And there we have to say that the collectively owned heat supply companies have that option, but the municipalities do not. Municipalities may only operate a collective heat supply. In fact, just last week we first dealt with a legislative proposal which provides for a scrapping scheme so that companies can apply for grants from an annual pool of 20 million. kr. with a view to offering heat pumps for the subscription scheme for the scrapping of oil pine in rural areas. The grant funds are then in fact divided into a grant pool which is not geographically reserved and a pool for each of the five regions. That is why, immediately after the Left's point of view, the problem has been dealt with to some extent. We cannot deny that there are places in rural areas where there are no private suppliers who will take the risk of offering a heat pump on the subscription scheme to home owners with oil pine. So we would actually like to address this issue in the climate action plans. It can be said that companies which may be pre-qualified to provide subscription heat pumps after L 116 once it has been adopted may also see this as distorting competition if we allow municipal heat supply companies to compete with private companies for subscription heat pumps in rural areas. So, like the Social Democratic Party, we recognise that there is a challenge, but we are not quite so keenly concerned that it should actually be the municipalities that solve this. Therefore, we are thinking that we must find some model, have found a solution, perhaps with a guarantee obligation in some way, but that will be when we come to the concrete climate negotiations. So we cannot support the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506111122	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506111126	I hear the Left saying that the subscription schemes are a good idea, and I actually think that this proposal is actually something that can exist in conjunction with the subscription schemes. But does the rapporteur of the Left think that it would be more attractive and possible, because there will also be some money to get a heat pump with a subscription system, or does the rapporteur of the Left think that it could actually be cheaper for a municipality to go into it and be allowed to set up a company to get local plumbers to deliver the heat pumps, because that is not what the municipality should set up? Does the rapporteur of the Left think that this could actually be a cheaper solution for rural citizens and also a solution where perhaps we should not have so much money out of our pocket when we cannot borrow a heat pump?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506111221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506111223	In fact, we are not entirely convinced of this. In fact, we believe that the market can solve some of the challenges, and then there will be some places where there will be a financing problem, and there will be some who will not take the risk, and there I think we should shoot with a rifle and find the places and then find models that can help solve that challenge. We have known the challenge, for example. separate sewering also in rural areas as a challenge where people have had difficulty financing it, and we have also found solutions to that, but there we have, if I may say so, shot with rifle after exactly the places where the problem was. So we address the proposal there that we are positive about supporting replacement for heat pumps, but we would like to find a solution in our continued negotiations on climate action plans.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506111312	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506111314	However, does the rapporteur of the Left believe that the subscription system at present has solved these challenges? Has it given enough impetus to the switch-over, the green switch-over? I'm here with a brochure that Danish District Heat has made • Danish District Heating has some members who want to go into this area and who want to provide solutions • and their calculations show that it is hardly attractive with a subscription scheme for a lot of people compared to replacing their oil boiler. So can the rapporteur of the Left not recognise that much more needs to be done if we are to achieve the objective of setting up more heat pumps and so that we can have electrified and resolve the loan challenges that are for rural areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506111404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506111405	I am fully in line with the Social Democracy. After all, we also have the challenge of whether the other citizens should be involved in financing the green transition in rural areas, and that is where I think we have some balances. I'm completely in line with the Social Democracy there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506111425	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Hjermind Dencker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506111432	Thank you for that, and many thanks to the Socialist People's Party for raising a very, very important issue. If we are to achieve our 70 per cent climate reduction targets. By 2030, it is important that we put in place green conversion, even when it comes to supply. I think it is very interesting that there are no limits on how much government will throw in to eliminate oil pine in non-profit housing, but not in private. And I'm just wondering if an oil guy doesn't fuck up as much when it's in a private home as if it was in non-profit homes. In rural areas, there are a lot of oil pine, houses with oil pine, and they are simply too scattered for district heating. If you live in a home of DKK 500,000 - 600,000, it can also be problematic to borrow DKK 100,000. or 140,000 kroner. for green conversion. What does that mean for the individual homeowner? This means that the owner of the property becomes tied up, the house becomes less marketable and it pollutes. The Socialist People's Party is trying to find a solution to this problem, for which we in the Danish People's Party have a great deal of respect. With the proposal here SF wants the municipalities to be able to establish heat supply companies offering individual heat supply. We may have such sympathy for this, but it only has some other problems that we simply need to be aware of. Every time a municipality gets involved in something that goes wrong, it is all the citizens of the municipality who pay the bill, so if the municipality sets up a supply company that goes bankrupt, all the citizens have to pay for it. Another thing is that it is not fair that you have a municipality that wants to set up a utility company, and at that establishment they can get loans in KommuneKredit to 0.0%. in interest rates, but the other utilities cannot. So, in this way, competition is distorted and the other utilities are knocked on the floor with a bang. We also find it difficult to have that on our conscience. In the Danish People's Party, we would really like to help rural areas well on their way in the green transition, and we would also like to address this specific problem with the fact that those who live in housing with oil pine in rural areas find it difficult to get them replaced. We simply have to deal with this, and we would very much like to do so. What are we going to do? There are places in Denmark, and it is also mentioned here where there are utilities that deliver in a subscription form where you typically pay 8,000 DKK. a year on a subscription until it is repaid, so we will back that up and we will also support the knowledge of it. I also believe that it is up to the SF and up to the Danish People's Party and up to all of us other parties outside the government to push the government to the maximum. in the climate negotiations, because when you value so much that oil pine has to be replaced into ordinary homes, but at all, it is not as important in private homes, we should go in and secure it. So I think that our fight should be fought in the climate negotiations to ensure that we can help those living in rural areas to replace their oil pine. So thank you very much to the SF for wanting to address the problem and then let us together find a solution that can serve us all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506111826	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506111831	Thank you for that and thank you to the Danish People's Party for being partly positive about the proposal. Then we'll see if we can solve this knot in the climate negotiations. But I'd like to ask you something. For everyone, these subscription schemes, which are expensive for those who have to change it out, do not at least mention the cheapest solution, and it may even be a barrier to changing it out. But does the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party believe that we will create the most local jobs, green jobs, by using a subscription scheme from a company that is 150 km away and that drives in and installs a heat pump? Or is it actually done by using the local plumbers that a local utility company could do, or a municipality that set up a utility company for this specific purpose? In other words, does the most growth and development in rural areas actually give you the use of local plumbers and installers, or does it give you the most growth and development that you use a company that gets far away from?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506111945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506111947	There we are simply in the lucky situation that it is not either-or. When I was supposed to change the heat pump in my summer house, it was a local plumber who came and which a utility had hired. So it's happening everywhere. So this is no obstacle to us being able to boost the growth of rural areas by local plumbers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506112007	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506112009	Yes, but now it is the case that the subscription schemes supported by the Danish Parliament are today divided into four companies. I think there were originally five companies and those companies are not necessarily rooted in the local community, but come a little away from it, and I think that some of the things that need to be taken into account are that local utilities, for example. I'm in a local mess. They live locally, they use local craftsmen, and thus they create jobs. Is this as important a priority for the Danish People's Party as it is for the SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506112044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506112045	For the Danish People's Party, it is always an important priority that we can create jobs in rural areas. That is also why we are in favour of there being even more relocation of state jobs so that it can generate more private jobs. In this respect, I think that our fight is • and I really hope that SF will fight with us in the Danish People's Party • should be pushing the government to the maximum when we have climate negotiations. So we must ensure that it is not only the non-profit housing that has phased out the oil pine, but the private sector must also have that. So when we grant them a grant, I hope that we in the SF and the Danish People's Party can look each other in the eye and say that yes, here we helped the local craftsmen, and that we also helped the individual homeowners in the rural areas, because we helped to provide a grant, which allowed local craftsmen to go out and set up an oil pine and that enabled the individual customer out there to convert into a green conversion. So I really hope that SF will fight that battle with us in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506112151	Then it's mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506112154	Thank you. It is not really a question, it is just such a service information, because the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has sometimes said here that the government is spending the state money to help the general housing companies to replace their oil pine. I just want to say that we are allowing the Landsbygningsfonden to go in and finance it, and the Landsbygningsfonden is thus the tenants' own money. It's not the state's money. It's just like that for information.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506112219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506112221	Yes, but I do like the idea behind it, that is to say that you now choose to use, let us say 50 million. kr. from the Landsbygningsfonden on that the oil pine is completely phased out in the non-profit housing sector. I am not at all against what the government is saying. I just think that thinking should spread to the private as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506112242	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506112244	Okay, that's fine, but I just think I've had the impression that the argument has, like, been different, so to say that it was the state that spent money on it, and why can't we spend money on the other part? I think it is excellent that the rapporteur should address his speech here. The tenants themselves pay to replace the oil guys in general homes. As to how we can then find the solution to private oil-fired power stations in rural areas, we need to find out how we can do this. I'm prepared for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506112314	The rapporteur? Apostates. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is it, Mr President. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506112326	Thank you for that and also thank you to the SF for tabling this motion for a resolution, which I regret to say we cannot support. But it is not because we are not very sympathetic to the intention of the proposal. Like the other speakers, we recognize the challenge of the necessary replacements of oil pine in housing, where it is typically not possible to finance it because many of them lie in areas where house prices are not what they have been. Fortunately, we have a strong increase in the number of heat pumps being installed here, and that is an increase that has come because we have used some of the tools that lie there and are well known, such as a reduction in the electric heating tax and so on. If it is up to the Radical Left, we must both start up after corona, where, I think, we need a capital injection into the economy, use among other things. We hope, as has also been said, that this will be a key element because we will not reach our climate change change if we do not address the problem of private oil pine. However, I have to say that, firstly, there is already a market that can cope with this. For example: I have talked to South Funen's energy supply, which offers these heat pumps, which they run and operate against a fixed monthly service. In other words, there is a private market for this, which we need to expand further, and when we talk to private operators in this area, they would very much like to see us change in the power of local authority, because they simply see this as unfair competition that is being imposed on them. So we are dealing with a problem which I also agree with the other speakers that we need to resolve. I have pointed out some tools that I believe we can use, and this is the climate action plans, it is the electric heating tax, it is various other tools, scrapping premiums, and then we will not radically take ownership of the solution, which is acting as suggested by the SF • to expand the local authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506112519	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506112528	Thank you. The Enhedslisten is positive about the proposal to give municipalities a right to be able to make a heat planning outside the traditional district heating areas, that you can plan out in those areas where it is not likely that district heating will come, but in that sense there are citizens who need a better energy solution. As I mentioned earlier in my question to the Minister, I think we should look at this proposal in relation to the proposals that have been made in relation to using land-building funds to replace oil pine in the general sector. It is a little paradoxical that we have different aid schemes that are tax-financed when it is private landowners who have to be animated to replace an oil pine, and then we are in a process where oil pine has to be replaced in the general sector, and so it is all the tenants in Denmark who have to finance it, or can we find a better solution? I am in favour of finding a better solution than those oil guys and those residents. If you look at what is happening around the country, it is true that there are some places where there is a sensible replacement of oil pine. I am aware of some conditions in Djursland, where for a number of years there have been some local heating plants that have been traded to another cooperative, Trustrup-Lyngby a.m.b.a., which has then set up a new company called the near-heat plant a.m.b.a., which runs non-profit and which, as such, offers heat solutions in a new company. It can then be said that in just the local area they do not need a municipality to sort of go in and do the job. However, there may be other areas in Denmark where it would be advantageous for the municipality, if there are no private players, to step in and help create a climate-proof solution. Now there is a great deal of debate about oil pine in connection with the motion for a resolution. But I read this motion for a resolution as something that can also apply to gas pine. It is therefore more a question of opening up the possibility for the municipality to establish heat supply companies that offer individual heat supplies, and this has much greater prospects because there are much more homes in Denmark that have a gas boiler. After all, we are faced with a huge task of phasing out all the fossil fuels, and this also applies to those households that are north of Copenhagen, where it is perhaps most normal to have a small individual gas pine. How is that best done? Yeah, I don't think it's just market forces that have to solve it. I really think it would be a very good solution that it is the municipalities that, in their heat planning, have to define how best to convert it. So in that light, I also see this proposal and actually think it makes sense. Then I think it is a rather strange debate that such a rejection is made of the fact that a municipality can also plan a heat supply outside the cities. Every citizen in a municipality should have some rights, and the SF then tries to unfold it in relation to the fact that there could be some citizens who live outside a local district heating supply and who also need to be helped to achieve a better energy solution. We in the Enhedslisten have great sympathy for this and we are sure that it can be done with a solution so that you do not risk the municipality going bankrupt even if it is engaged in a new area. It can be placed in a company with limited liability in one way or another. So I do not see the problems in the proposal, and I think that this, if we come to the conclusion that a majority will adopt it, will be something that will have an effect in certain geographical areas of Denmark. We in the Enhedslisten are in favour of the fact that in Denmark it does not have to be the same all over. So we support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506112911	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Orla Østerby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506112920	Thank you. As the SF motion for a resolution has been tabled here, the Conservative People's Party cannot support it. We can see the problem, and we see it also being there in due time, but right now we have to say that the minister also told us about the fact that last year we installed 11,000 heat pumps. So there's something going on in this area. I myself live in an area where there are places where there is no collective heat supply and where there are many oil pine. The municipality of Lemvig is mentioned in the proposal. I have had a dialogue with the technical director of Lemvig Municipality. He made me a little note about it. The fact is that at least in the municipality of Lemvig, the municipal heating plant will have nothing to do with this. This means that it must then be a municipal company. This means, of course, that we must at least extend the power of local authority. This also means that we in a municipality will provide municipal guarantees for heat pumps. It could be all over Denmark. This means that, compared with the other suppliers in the heat pump sector, we will be distorting it, because it is the case that KommuneKredit has a significantly lower lending rate than the free market. So we will have a problem that we need to take a position on. The easy thing would be with a quick fix to say that we just say yes, and then we drive. I and the Conservative People's Party think we should wait and see how this is developing. We have, of course, just recently adopted L 116, where we have set aside a large amount of money for heat pumps. And that means that most people can get into such a project with a new heat pump for 20,000 DKK. In one-time payment, it's 4,000-5,000 kroner. on a subscription and with a low kilowatt price. After all, many households that have oil pine can have a saving of DKK 15.00 - 20.000. a year. So it's not that bad a business to invest $20,000. Then you can say that there may be some who can't borrow 20,000 kroner. in their house, but I also know several who have borrowed 20,000 kroner. to their car, and it is not the case that they have taken a credit fund loan in the house to buy the car because they cannot borrow any more money in the house. So I'm just thinking that it can be done if you're interested in getting a low heating cost. So we have to be careful that we don't see this alone as a problem that applies to everyone. However, there may be houses in rural areas that we will have to shoot more directly at at a later stage, namely when we have the climate action plan, and the Conservative People's Party would like to help address it at that time. Then we think that in the intervening phase we should see how many oil guys we can have replaced through the system we have here and now and which we have adopted with L 116 a few weeks ago. The comments on the proposal here state that there are many people who cannot borrow DKK 140,000. for a heat pump. They shouldn't. They're gonna have to go find 20,000 kroner. The end result of this must be that there may be some who are left who cannot get it funded. We must then go in there and see whether we want to change the local authority to the municipalities or whether we can find another structure that will enable us to get the latter. The Conservatives will be ready to look at this, but we are not ready at this stage to say yes to this, and certainly not when we recently agreed to L 116 and set aside a million dollars for leasing heat pumps. That is what we think we should be doing now, and then we should see how things are going to turn out. We are well aware of this, because we know how many people are installed per year. That is the way we will be able to deal with it when we get there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506113340	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506113347	Thank you. It really upsets me that someone who knows Lemvig Municipality as well is not for a solution that could help the citizens of the municipality. I am just thinking that it is true that more initiatives have been taken in relation to the spread of heat pumps, but we need a massive conversion, and we need many more heat pumps over the coming years. Does the Conservative rapporteur believe that the bill he mentions will mean that a solution will be found for Lemvig's citizens? Well, is that enough to solve that challenge?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506113427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506113429	It is not certain that this is enough, but although I live in the municipality of Lemvig and sit in the municipal council there, I am of the opinion that the municipality of Lemvig must have another municipal power, and so must the other municipalities, and the municipalities will put their citizens stronger in a municipal guarantee than the private provider. We will have to take a position on this, and the SF will also have to take a position on this, because we need to have justice in what we are doing here by the Folketing. And it's not okay to go out and do an unfair competition, because there's a municipality that makes a municipal company. And then we have to remember that in Lemvig Municipality it was the case that Lemvig Heating Plant wasn't interested in doing this project with the heat pumps. And then you can ask yourself, is it because they don't think it's a good business? It may be, but it is also not a good business for taxpayers that the municipality of Lemvig puts money in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506113531	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506113533	Yeah, but I'm kind of ready for a discussion about how we fence this in so we don't make a distortion in the competition. The idea is that it's still local installers and plumbers who are supposed to be in charge of installing these heat pumps, but that it's of course the municipality that makes sure that it can be used here, that there is some kind of financing model that makes more people interested in this. In fact, one could imagine that it would provide more work to the local plumbers and installers because interest in installing a heat pump simply increases. So does the Conservative rapporteur recognise that it could actually generate more local jobs ~ something that I imagine a rural community like Lemvig also needs?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506113621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506113623	Well, I think the local installers will be very interested in doing this, and, by the way, they are doing it today. We just need to be aware that at this stage we do not have the right to say that a municipality can implement this. So there needs to be a completely different legal basis if it is to be implemented. And the Conservative People's Party would like to take part in this. We just have to be aware that what we're doing with this is that we're doing the municipalities that today want to help with this, a disservice if we say yes to this at this time, and then we have other artisans and offerers on this, who have quite different conditions to be able to offer in terms of loans. We have to get that in place here in the Folketing, that is how we will deal with it, and there we are prepared to shoot for it when we reach our climate action plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506113716	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506113724	Thank you for the floor. With motion for a resolution B 92, the Socialist People's Party wishes to enable municipalities to act as players in the market for the sale and installation of heat pumps. We recognise the problem, which is the premise of the resolution, but we are not in favour of the solution being proposed. Municipalities should not, in principle, act as market players. In the past, municipalities have not always been fairly priced when they offered tasks, and even when they price fairly, they still do not run the risk of private operators. I am sorry that there is no Danish expression for it, because we have to speak Danish here in Parliament, but this phenomenon is sometimes called moral hazard by economists, and that is to say risky behaviour, as a result of not having to bear the consequences of one's risky behaviour. And it is built into the proposal in such a way that it is the taxpayers of the municipality who bear the risk of the agreements concluded by the municipality. Having just had a compensatory reform, I also think I would like to mention that the cost of living in a rural area is considerably lower than the cost of living in the larger cities. So with the economic wind on the bike path that you always have when you live in a rural area, we may also find it a little difficult to see the need for state help to travel these around. 20,000 kroner. Orla Østerby has pointed out. So we cannot support the proposal. And then I should say hello to new citizens who could not be here and say that they do not support the proposal either. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506113923	I would like to thank the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, who was then also rapporteur on behalf of the new citizens. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506113936	Thank you and thank you for the debate. After all, there have been some positive statements and some that were less positive. It is of course a pity that today we do not find a solution to ensure that people in rural areas can also become part of the green transition and solve the challenges they sometimes face with funding problems. I would like to say a few words about why this proposal has come into being, because it has actually come about on the basis of a dialogue with the Joint Council of Rural Regions on a particular municipality, which has also been mentioned here today, namely Lemvig. It's a municipality that wants to be green, and it wants to help in this process of transition we're going through. After all, we have this 70-percent CO2 reduction objective, which is why I think we should welcome all the initiatives in this direction, because there is no doubt that it will be a really big task to resolve. At the same time, the municipality of Lemvig has a large rural district and, as you know, these are often areas where there are a lot of oil pine. We know that they have to be replaced, but we also know that the starting costs of getting a heat pump in will be quite high, although that would be a good alternative. There are many people in rural areas who cannot borrow the $100,000 that it costs because they simply live in the wrong postal code and then are not borrowed or the house's free value is too low. This means that these citizens are in a mess, and this problem is actually recognised by TEKNIQ, who is organizing the installers in this area. They actually say it in the press release they sent out a few days ago. The municipality of Lemvig has indeed asked its local utility company: do you want to do something? Would you like to go into this? Because they have the experience, and they have the competences to do so, but they say no. In fact, they are quite happy to make collective supply in the urban areas they already do. Another company has also been asked, and I think it is called Jysk Energi, which has also turned down this task. So the municipality of Lemvig has thought out of the box: What's it gonna take? Perhaps we could make ourselves a company that could help these rural citizens where district heating does not reach out. Then they have asked Horten to make a closer analysis of the legal, and the conclusion is clear: The municipality of Lemvig must not. Where, then, does it leave the green transition and where does it leave the citizens of rural areas who, in addition to having enough problems to buy and sell their houses, because the mortgage institutions and banks will not help it, nor can they necessarily get a hand in getting their oil pine replaced? I think it is a pity that we cannot at least discuss this proposal a little further. I am willing to discuss what the conditions for this could be, and then we must hedge it in so that it takes into account the concerns that have been aired here today. In any case, I think it is a pity that we cannot give the municipalities an opportunity to go in where others have said no. Then the proposal is not just about municipalities either. It is also about giving existing utilities the law. And Danish District Heating at any rate reports that they have companies that really want to take on this task, and this could give some economies of scale that make it possible to offer cheap solutions, green solutions, but also security for these homeowners, so that they do not have to deal with the operation of such a plant and the challenges themselves if there are problems. It will also ensure that it is installed properly, and it is also one of the challenges that many plants may not have run in well enough to deliver optimally. The obvious advantage of the fact that the municipalities could form a company was, of course, that they could obtain loans guaranteed by the municipality. After all, it is very cheap and stable loans, and it will benefit consumers who might dump this oil pine and invest in a heat pump with lower start-up costs. So it will be almost as safe and safe as district heating. It's just running, and then it's worth it. TEKNIQ, which then organizes the installers, has had some entirely legitimate objections. They are afraid, I think, that their members will lose some work and will not be able to install the pumps. That doesn't have to be the case, because we can just put the scheme together in such a way that we have to do so, at least it is the scheme that Danish District Heating has thought about, that is to say that it must be the local craftsmen who are responsible for this. We could also impose that on municipal companies. There may even be a presumption that it could create more jobs for the local installers, because then there were more who would switch to a heat pump. In addition, it might even give some more work, some more green jobs, some local jobs, where it might not be a company within those subscription schemes that exist, which must drive 150 km from the other end of the country to come and install something. So it does not give much growth and development locally. I would like to say that we know very well that we need more heat pumps if we are to achieve the 70-percent target, and that is why I am glad that the Minister as such recognises that we need to do more. And we can discuss this here in the climate plan negotiations. Then I have to trust that that is where we can find a solution so that we can secure both these rural citizens who face financing challenges and the green transition. But again: thank you for the debate. I look forward to the climate plan negotiations, which, unfortunately, I am not part of, but I wonder if the SF rapporteur will do his best to make that proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506114538	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506114544	Thank you. Otherwise, I can promise that in the Social Democratic Party we will ensure that this is put on the agenda in those negotiations. I took note, for example. Yesterday, the Rural Council supports this proposal, and I also think that it would be strange other. But in fact, I did a little like my colleague when you're about to start a proposal like this and then I called them right over and said, "What is this, and what have you guys been thinking about this?" Because it is always good to hear it from the other side, and I am sorry to say that they had never heard of it in the Joint Council of Rural Affairs. Then I know that there may be some other things, it may be that you have a coincidence of people and something like that, and then I thought that we should talk to someone else from Lemvig Municipality, a member of the City Council, who is also in the Joint Council of Rural Regions. I did, and there I could get an explanation of what it was all about. It has nothing to do with the proposal, nor does it change the value of the proposal or its content. It is just to make it clear that it is not the Joint Council of Rural Regions that has been sitting and imagining this. I asked if they had a horde of member municipalities standing out there knocking on the door and saying: we want this done. They didn't, so they didn't know about it at all. But it doesn't matter, you might say, because in terms of content, this is good enough. It doesn't matter who has thought it and where it comes from, but we just can't accuse the Joint Council of Rural Affairs that they are the ones who have got the idea, because it isn't. Of course, you support it, and I think that is a good thing. I would like to ask you something, because the rapporteur says here that it is also too bad and that the citizens cannot take part in the green transition at all and ask how we are going to proceed with this. I would just like to ask, and if the rapporteur is unable to respond to this, maybe we can have it checked whether there are any citizens who have had the problem that they in the four or five companies that are providing the nationwide have got a no to set up a plant? And if someone's got a yes, have they got a no on funding? In other words, we can have it examined (First Vice-President Thank you to the questioner).), because I do not know whether the rapporteur can answer that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506114737	And that's the rapporteur, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506114740	I do not know whether this has happened in the four companies, but TEKNIQ acknowledges that there is a challenge. What I challenge about the subscription system is that it does not create local jobs and that, unfortunately, the start-up costs are so high that, in many cases, this cannot be done or that it is certainly not in a position to compete with oil and gas heating. In relation to the origin of the proposal, it is true what I am saying, namely that it is Horten who, for the municipality of Lemvig, has interpreted that the municipality cannot go into this. But it is a dialogue that I have had with the chairman of the Rural Council, Steffen Damsgaard, who is also a council member of the municipality of Lemvig. So this is certainly a proposal for which I have been inspired by the Joint Council of Rural Regions. And I think that this will solve more things; it will create funding opportunities, it will create more green conversion. However, I have to acknowledge that we will probably get this resolved first with the climate plan negotiations, and I must trust in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506114849	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506114851	Thank you. It is true that it is the good chairman of the Rural Council, Steffen Damsgaard, who has thought this and he has told me that it is not as the chairman of the Rural Council that he has done it; he has not mentioned it there at all. But again, it doesn't matter in this context; it's just that it gets completely settled. I also think it is important to find out, and it has also been raised as a concern here, whether it is actually too expensive with the solutions that are, in other words, whether someone is taking an overpriced, i.e. whether the companies that are currently in free competition get an overpriced in connection with the establishment of these heat pumps and whether they use local craftsmen to make it or not. I think that is excellent to find out, because it is clear that if we are to support rural areas as well, we would like local labour to be used. But I think it's worth looking into, that is, how things are going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506114951	The rapporteur, please. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt I drop off). Then there is one more brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506115002	Thank you. When I ask for the floor, it is because I think it is sad that the rapporteur once more mentions that it costs DKK 100 000. to get a heat pump. Well, with L 116 we've made a scheme where, for the most part, it's going to cost about $20,000, so let's just keep it that way. The next thing is that I have heard all the parties in the Danish Parliament say that we recognise the problem and that we must look at it. We also recognise that we have just voted through L 116, and the SF did not say that there were any problems. The SF also voted in favour of this. Finally, I must say that it may well be that Steffen Damsgaard, from Lemvig, chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, is also chairman of the Joint Council of Rural Regions, and that it is a problem when you wear more hats, but it is not the case that I have received a letter from the Joint Council of Rural Regions saying that we should finally do something about this, that is to say that they would recommend it. I haven't heard anything about it. I have not heard from anyone who thinks this is a problem other than through SF's proposal, and therefore I contacted the municipality. It is therefore something of an internal nature, and it is fine that we have some internal discussions, but I think we should stick to the fact that we agree that we will look at this when we start the climate action plan, and then we will find a solution to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506115120	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506115121	Thank you for letting us take a look at this. And I really hope that these are not just words in the Parliamentary Chamber, but that we are also trying to fight for it when we are going to have these climate plan negotiations. Then I thank you for the debate and I think it is, of course, good that there are more heat pumps on the way and hopefully also a better aid scheme, but I can only have a lot of doubts as to whether this alone is what needs to be done or whether we need to do more. And I actually thought the Minister said we should do that. I look forward to the negotiations, which unfortunately I am not part of, but I am quite sure that our rapporteur will do very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506115210	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'll be right back. Orla Østerby another brief remark? No. Then no one else has asked for the floor, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Rural and Islands Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506115230	In a moment, I will postpone the sitting until 8 a.m. 13, but before I do so, I would just like to inform you that Question No 13, by Mr McMillan-Scott, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 1-3 to the Minister for Finance (S 1040, S 1053 and S 1068) is deleted from the agenda. At the same time, I must inform you that Gitte Willumsen (V) under No. 23 questions put to the Minister for Children and Education (S 1078) are deleted at the request of the author. I must also inform you that those of Torsten Schack Pedersen (V) under No. 28 and No 34 questions addressed to the Minister for Industry (S 1072 and S 1073) are deleted at the request of the author. Questions shall be put to written answer. The sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 1 p.m. with paragraph 3 which answers questions sent to ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506130003	The sitting is resumed. I have the honour to announce that Questions 1 to 3 to the Minister for Finance (S 1040, S 1053 and S 1068) are deleted from the agenda. At the same time, I must inform you that Gitte Willumsen (V) under No. 23 questions put to the Minister for Children and Education (S 1078) are deleted at the request of the author. I should also like to inform you that those of Torsten Schack Pedersen (V) under No. 28 and No 34 questions addressed to the Minister for Industry (S 1072 and S 1073) are deleted at the request of the author. Questions shall be put to written answer. Then we move on to the first question (S 1044) in today's program. The Minister for Finance was the first, but it will then be the Minister for Justice, who will have the honour of being the first minister, and Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, the Left, will have the opportunity to put questions to the Minister for Justice. There is a fellow questioner, and that is Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, also from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506130119	Here you go to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506130121	Thank you. What will the Minister do to meet the wishes of a large number of mayors to reopen the Danish border for German tourists?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506130136	Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506130137	Thank you for the question. I have of course noted that several mayors have expressed concern about the consequences of border controls and restrictions on entry, both for local tourism and for the rest of society. It is clear that the restrictions on entry are of great importance to a great many people and many companies, and that is why I understand very well that the mayors want a clear answer as to when the borders can then be opened again. However, when we, as Danes, are subject to very strict measures to keep the infection under control, I do not think that, as the situation currently stands, tourists who are potentially able to bring the infection into the country should be able to enter the country. Having said that, it is of course neither the government nor my wish to keep the borders closed for longer than is necessary. However, we have to wait and see the results of the openings of society that have already taken place before we announce further initiatives. It is also my view that there is a broad desire in the Folketing to ensure a controlled and gradual opening of the whole of Denmark, and that there is a common political understanding that the steps to be taken in the reopening of Denmark should be decided politically on the basis of health recommendations and analyses. I assume that the reason why there is an understanding that the reopening of Denmark should be done gradually and in a controlled way is that we will continue to have the situation under control so that we do not end up compromising the good results that the Danes have secured in recent times. That is why we must also recognise that we must give priority to the fact that we cannot open everything at once, but that we must have a gradual and controlled opening. As you know, there are currently negotiations on further openings of society where all parties are invited. I also know that the Minister for Industry has initiated a dialogue with the tourism industry on how opening up can be done responsibly when the time is ripe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506130337	Then it's Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506130338	Thank you very much for your answer and thank you for the understanding expressed by the Minister here. I can assure the Minister and the Government that, of course, we in the Left are very concerned that the reopening of Danish society is taking place in a sound manner in terms of health. But that does not change the fact that the understanding expressed by the Minister does not do so alone. If you look at what this is actually about, then it is the case that we are actually losing a turnover equivalent to 107 million. kr. by day because of the closed border. This is the turnover lost by the tourist industry on a daily basis. That is why I do not think there is any way to blame those who are in the tourist industry, nor the mayors who house coastal tourism, for their concern and interest in knowing what the government is really doing to ensure that we can reopen the Danish-German border in a healthy way. So I still have to understand and hear the Minister express what considerations are actually being made in the government. Because it came out when the border was closed that it was not based on any health science attitude to the government, but that it was purely political. That is why it is quite natural that, for political reasons, we in the Folketing should also be concerned about what political considerations the government is making to ensure that a re-opening can take place in a sound manner in terms of health.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506130527	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506130528	After all, the basis for the opening is that the health authorities are making projections of how the pressure of infection will develop if we open up so much and so much. And then you can choose between all sorts of different tools, compared to what they are for some openings that you want to happen. And, of course, what will be important for opening up is what the economic impact is. It is true, as the questioner says, that we are dealing here with a profession which has experienced, if not a closure, at least a significant reduction in turnover in an area which needs it and where we are standing in every way in front of the peak season. So I certainly understand the interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506130617	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506130618	The truth is that many holiday home owners and rental agencies have made contracts with German tourists in anticipation that they could come and enjoy the Danish summer and their holidays in the Danish country. But the very same cottage owners and rental agencies cannot simply free themselves from the contracts, and they cannot simply re-hire the houses to Danish tourists. So there is the prospect of a turnover loss of 107 million. kr. a day. In view of the fact that there seems to be an opening on the German side, I do not think that the Minister is really concerned about what the specific health situation is actually between Germany and Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506130709	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506130709-2	Fortunately, we have some rounds, so hopefully I can get through the different things. Because there is first a question about it with the Germans' inability to be present and rent the summer houses and what will then happen. It's one element. Then there's the other thing, the one with the German opening. As I understand it, the restrictions on entry have so far been extended by Germany until 15 May, that is to say until very soon. I am not the world champion of German, but as I understand it, there are considerations about how to open up. But I also understand that tourism is not the first to appear on the list in the German opening, at least when I try to understand the media.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506130751	Thank you, and then there is a fellow inquirer, Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506130757	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister of Justice. The Minister of Justice explained that the health authorities assess what might be the risk of e.g. a gradual opening of the border. I would like to ask the Minister for Justice if we can have the assessment of what the consequences will be of opening up the border and possibly doing so gradually. In particular, I am asking because the closure of the border has taken place without a medical justification. It was only a political decision taken by the government, and that is why I think it would be very interesting for us in the debate to have an assessment of the risk that might be opening up the border.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506130834	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506130835	I agree with that. I haven't seen those calculations myself. As I understand it, they are simply en route as we speak. What has been the construction the other times has been that it has been said: if we open up so much, how can we expect the infection to develop? As I said, I do not know the actual calculations. As I understand it, the previous calculations have also been made available to the Danish Parliament, but this is something which does not belong to my area of responsibility, but to the Prime Minister's area of responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506130903	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506130905	Nevertheless, I take it as a confirmation from the Minister that the Folketing should have those assessments, and that is quite natural, because they must be included in our discussions, especially when the Minister also says that we must see the results of the opening that has taken place. But it is interesting that the government is now talking so much about some effects and some health reasons, because the Minister must admit that it was a political decision to close the border, and I assume that the Minister is aware that the pressure of infection is thus lower in Schleswig-Holstein than it is in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506130941	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506130942	It is quite true that it was a political decision to close the borders, which is one of them. stood on the back of a desire not to make such a Trojan horse, where, at the same time as all the restrictions we have imposed on ourselves, we open the door to tourists or others who can enter the country and bring infection with them. So that was, of course, one part of it, i.e. an assessment of what the risk of us pulling infection from the outside is. And that was a political and not a medical assessment. Then, of course, there is also the assessment that when we ask the Danes to show restraint to the extent that we have done, it is fair enough to say that we have to ensure that we do not open a back door and allow infection in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506131022	Thank you. Then we go back to Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506131025	Thank you. Now the Minister for Justice has stressed here several times that when the Danish-German border was closed, it was solely a political decision and not a health professional attitude from the authorities. That is why I ask the Minister for Justice: now we do not know exactly what is going to happen in Germany, but is it the case that the Danish Government will take decisions in parallel with the German Government? It is, of course, a political decision that can then be taken, and I think it would be appropriate to hear the Minister's reply to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506131056	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506131058	So far, it has been the case that the countries of Europe have largely acted independently in the wrong way, if I may say so, without coordinating what is needed of interventions. I am far from sure that picture will change. When I listen beyond the European landscape and hear what is being said, what the French know, what the Germans do about reflections and so on, it sounds as if coordination is minimal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506131126	Thank you. That was the end of Question 4. We move on to the next question, and it is also to the Minister for Justice, and that is by Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. There are questions, and that is Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, also from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506131146	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506131148	Thank you. Will the Minister contact his German ministerial colleague in order to discuss a plan on how to ensure that German tourists can get to and from Denmark when it is healthy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506131203	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506131204	Thank you for the question. We have all recently been subject to many different and difficult protection measures in Denmark to limit the infection by covid-19. It has hit us all, but it has been necessary. That is why I am also glad that we are now talking about the reopening of Denmark at a time when many countries are still struggling to control the disease. I understand, of course, that the restrictions on entry are something that hits really, very many people and, above all, the tourist industry very hard. Tourism is an important business in many parts of Denmark, and many tourist areas enjoy many German guests each year who visit and enjoy our Danish beaches, summer houses, restaurants and local hospitality. It is therefore not the Government's wish that we should maintain the restrictions on entry any longer than is necessary. However, we need to proceed cautiously, and I can also say that this is the position in Germany. As the honourable Member will be aware, Germany has recently chosen to extend the guide to German citizens to refrain from travelling abroad until 15 June. Of course, we are closely following developments in our neighbouring countries, and it is constantly assessed whether there is any reason to adjust the restrictions on entry. I will certainly not rule out the possibility that at some point there will be grounds for opening up tourists from Germany or other countries. On the other hand, I also fully respect Germany's view that it is not the time to open up holidays abroad in the same way as Denmark right now. However, when the time comes to open up to tourism again, I would, of course, like to discuss the possibilities with my German colleague if necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506131344	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506131345	But I asked you about a plan for how that could happen. And when the Minister says that he will only contact his German colleague when the decision to open is taken, it is, of course, too late. Well, a plan is something you lay down before you do anything like Egon Olsen, right? You have a plan, and then you do it. You don't make the plan once you open the safe from Frantz Jäger. I think the Minister understands that. So, a contact with the German ministerial colleague and the question: should we sit down and make a plan for how this reopening is going to take place in the best possible way? Are we going to open it all up at once and I should just point out to the Minister that it is not called open up or should we take one area at a time? Could we perhaps create a corridor in which we said that German tourists, who have already booked a holiday home in advance, could be allowed to cross the Danish-German border? That could be a gentle way to start. Holiday home guests are typically also less in contact with the community than tourists in hotels and other places where you gather at the morning buffet etc. So a plan for how to open up gradually is what I am asking and whether the Minister will make such contact. Then I still find it a little difficult to understand why a citizen from Frederiksberg can go to West Jutland without hindrance and take a holiday in a summer house, while a Flensburg citizen cannot do the same when there are fewer infected people in Flensburg than there are unfortunately at Frederiksberg. What, frankly, is the medical justification for saying that people from Flensburg are more dangerous to get into our summer homes than people from Frederiksberg?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506131535	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506131536	I believe that the plan to establish how we can open up is the plan that we, the parties of the Folketing and the government, are putting together here at the moment, which depends first and foremost on what is the pressure of infection we see and what is our potential with the health-care capabilities we have, to be able to cover it if there should be an increase, and then to do so in a way, and I think that is absolutely central, where we come forward cautiously and see if we can take the next step. Furthermore, I agree that one of the elements that must be included is the pressure of infection in the other countries when assessing whether to open up again. It does not matter whether it is a country where there are many, many infected, or whether it is a country where the pressure of infection is like the Danish one.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506131624	Thank you. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506131625	No, but that's exactly what I'm asking. It is whether you want to contact Germany to talk about these things in advance, and what I hear the Minister say is that this is something we are discussing within Denmark without involving Germany. I think that is just a pity, because we can see that Germany has had some experience. Germany has decided to open the border so that we Danes can go to Germany, but the Germans cannot go to Denmark. That's a little too bad. I assume the Minister has the phone number. It's a little too bad we can't discuss these things. After all, we are neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506131701	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506131702	In fact, I am not sure that the Germans have made that decision to open the way for entry. As I understand it, the decision of the Germans so far to maintain the entry restrictions until the 15th, and now to consider what is to be there is something that we are not involved in, by the way, speaking of. As I understand it, however, it is again my understanding from the German media that it is not tourism that you look at opening up at first, at least not to outsiders. Germany is a large country, so there is also some internal tourism. There is also in Denmark, but in Germany to a much greater extent than there is in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506131741	Thank you. Then it is co-questioner Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506131748	Thank you. I should just like to ask whether the Minister will open the border in parallel with the measures taken by Germany to open the border?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506131757	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506131758	No, because what matters is not how other countries react. What matters is how we jointly consider that it is most appropriate to handle the infection in Denmark. It may well be that it is relevant to look to other countries too. However, it will not be the case if the Swedes say, as they have done, that now there is no entry control, that we then say that then there should be no entry control for Swedes to Denmark either. So there's not that parallelity.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506131828	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506131829	Will the Minister then tell us what is crucial? In other words, what are some of the things that need to be stressed in a position to close borders?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506131841	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506131842	It's really the same thing as when you're doing this assessment that you're looking at broadly. Perhaps one should have the impression that we can make a certain amount of opening up before there is a fear in the health authorities that the pressure of infection is increasing so that we no longer have the situation under control. In that room there are a whole lot different. It may be the opening up of the primary school, it may be the opening up of the summer country, it may be the opening of all sorts of things differently, and there, with the help of the health authorities, we must assess politically what we want to open up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506131917	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506131919	Yes, but as I understand it, there is no health evidence of border closure, and German tourists are not allowed to go to summerland and restaurant, and what do I know if it is opened? So how do health authorities assess how much the pressure of infection will increase by the arrival of German tourists in Denmark? In other words, when there is no health evidence to say that it is dangerous, and when, of course, German tourists have to comply with the same restrictions as Danish tourists have to apply, and when, moreover, there are fewer infected Germans than there are Danes, how on earth can it have any effect on the pressure of infection, whether you open up to German tourists or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506131959	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506132000	I am not the right person to reply to the question of how the health authorities carry out their assessment. By the way, I do not know whether and how they weigh a possible border opening. I do not know whether that is what their education is at the moment. All I know is that you sit with the health authorities and look at what the possibilities are in the next step of opening up Denmark. Our position is that we must proceed cautiously and not risk jeopardising what we have achieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506132031	Thank you. That was the end of paragraph 5. The next question is by Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, who can stay standing. It's for the Minister of Justice of Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left, and there is a questioner Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506132045	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506132046	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that Germany has closed the borders of citizens from, for example, Denmark, Austria, France and Luxembourg, but not Belgium and the Netherlands, and will the Minister see an advantage in the fact that German citizens can once again travel across the border to Denmark, for example. to ensure German tourists access to Denmark during the summer?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506132103	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506132105	Thank you for the question. It is no secret that EU countries, like the countries of the rest of the world, have different approaches to dealing with covid-19. In Denmark, we have found it necessary to impose restrictions on entry for all foreigners without a recognised purpose and on entry across all borders. There Germany has then chosen a different approach, closing off against a number of countries, but not all countries. That is Germany's assessment, and I shall not judge it. In the end, it must be up to each country to assess for itself what measures are needed to get the covid-19 under control. Having said that, I am, of course, pleased with the prospect that, if this happens, Germany would have to relax its entry restrictions on Denmark, because it is of course important that, as the situation permits, we move back to a situation in which we are able to travel freely between each other's countries again. I am aware, of course, that German tourists are of great importance to the tourism industry in Denmark, but, as I said before, we need to proceed cautiously and re-open Denmark controlled, as is the case when we talk about opening up tourism. This must be sound in terms of health and, unfortunately, we cannot open everything up at once.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506132218	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506132219	I agree with that, and that is not what I am proposing either. In the previous question it emerged that the Minister for Justice does not know whether the question of border closure is at all discussed in the government's strategy on what to open in the next chop, and I think that is actually a little too bad, and one might well have prepared to find out when we are here in Question Time in the Danish Parliament. And the only minister to whom this question has been put is the Minister of Justice, so the only one who can answer is the Minister of Justice. I fully recognise that we have not been in such a situation before and that it has been very difficult, because some difficult decisions have had to be made, and I have great respect for the work done by the government, but when something like this happens again, and I say deliberately when and not if, does it not show that we should be better at discussing these issues with our colleagues in the European Union? This applies, of course, first and foremost to our immediate neighbouring countries, Sweden and Germany, but also to wider ones, because we are connected, and we are used to moving across borders, as people live in one country but work in the other country, and that is the reality we are in, that is, that people do not stay within the four walls of their country of origin, but move out into Europe. Could we use the learning of this crisis so that we are better equipped for the next time, and so that we can better coordinate our efforts so that we can jointly combat the enemy that the corona virus is?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506132401	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506132403	First of all, I would like to thank you for recognising the great and difficult work that has been done. I am sure that there is real, very much learning to take down from this, and I think that some of the learning will be how we deal with ensuring that in a situation, we might arise again, even have enough protective equipment, and to ensure that we can produce enough protective equipment ourselves; that is, that we have enough in stock for a period of time and that we can also produce. I also believe that some of the lessons here are that here too the European Union needs to think.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506132442	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506132442-2	Now I do not know how much to put into it, but one of the countries to which Germany has not closed the border is a country like Belgium. In Belgium there are 50,000 infected and 5,000 dead, but the border has been open and, thank God, in Denmark the figures are much, much lower. Does this raise some concern on the part of the Minister that the Germans might look with a little scepticism at Denmark in relation to the sight of a country such as Belgium?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506132523	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506132524	I am not going to examine what the motives of the Germans are, but I find it difficult to imagine that the Germans should say that now they are shutting down their citizens' travel opportunities to other countries in order to punish the other countries. It would still be a strange construction, I think. So I do not think that is the case, but I do not know what the motive of the Germans was.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506132547	Then it's the co-questioner, Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506132551	So, I think it is really, really a pity that the Minister for Justice is standing here in Parliament's Question Time saying that the Danish Government does not intend to adopt decisions in parallel with what is happening in our large neighbouring country in the south, Germany. I must say, I think that's really, really bad. However, I would like to ask: will the Minister at least contact his German colleague when there is clarification in Germany in order to have full clarity as to what has actually been decided in Germany? Because maybe we're discussing things a little blindly here too. The Minister has one view, and I think that as authors we have a slightly different view of what is actually being discussed in Germany. So it would be very good, I think, if the Minister for Justice here today at least for the profession which, as I said, loses 107 million. kr. On the other hand, there is no doubt that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer is a good one.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506132707	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506132708	With all due respect, I do not think the questioner really believes that we should take parallel decisions with neighbouring countries, because that would mean that we should abandon our travel restrictions on all entry from Sweden. Well, we have chosen, of course, the countries have chosen different strategies. The Germans have also chosen to shut down in a different way than we have. As I understand it, the ban on the assembly in Germany may well be that I have misunderstood it two people, and it is considered to raise to five people where ours are ten people. I mean, you've chosen completely different approaches. And when we have not chosen the same approaches, even how we open up, which professions are to be opened up, and certainly not when we can open up, then we cannot have a parallel process.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506132750	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506132751	I would just like to say that we are sure that we are not talking past each other, that the issue here is about Germany, and this is about the border between Denmark and Germany and not the border with Sweden. In my view, this is a completely different matter with regard to Sweden, and that is why it is, of course, another position on how to open up to Sweden. This is about Germany, and it is about, as I understand it, that a decision is being taken in Germany, which means opening up passages from Denmark to Germany. And there I think it is a pity that the Danish government here today indicates that nothing like this will be done in Denmark, despite the fact that in Schleswig-Holstein we see a lower pressure of infection than we see in Southern Denmark. So this is simply a lack of understanding on my part of the logic of government decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506132852	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506132853	However, when I mentioned Sweden, it was also just to illustrate that parallelism can only be extended if, in relation to a large number of other decisions, we also go together, because otherwise we are not at all sure that we are dealing with the intra-country infection in the same way, just as we have to see when we look across Europe and the world that we find ourselves in different places in the course of the disease. And that is why, of course, we need to take into account what the specific conditions are when we work to open up. We have no interest in maintaining a closed border.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506132933	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506132934	I think that the Minister for Justice has been asked some fairly clear questions to which I have not yet received an answer, and I also think it would be reasonable, on behalf of the major tourist industry in South Jutland and West Jutland, to give an answer. In other words, could we at least get a statement from the Minister for Justice today that this situation will be discussed with his German colleague and that the government will discuss opening the borders? I am not asking for a date, I am not asking to know how to do it and so on. That is the least you can do to the industry that is currently bleeding.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506133026	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506133028	To this we have to say: paragraph 1, that we are constantly watching how it develops, and we are not interested in maintaining the border restrictions longer than is most necessary, paragraph 2, that there is a dialogue going on, because the parties of the Folketing are perhaps not sitting right now, but at least in these days and discussing and hopefully reaching an understanding, in terms of how to open up, and paragraph 3, that I do not believe that the party of the questioner actually believes that we should immediately lift the entry ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506133101	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen. We move on to Question 7, which is also addressed to the Minister for Justice, and that is by Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, Left, and here is the questioner Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506133111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506133113	Thank you. My question is this: when Germany is one of the countries in the European Union that has the lowest number of infected citizens per year. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-DK_20200506133125	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506133129	Thank you for the question. When Denmark and other European countries have introduced restrictions on entry, it is of course to limit the spread of infection. We have reacted quickly in Denmark, and that is why we are now in a situation where we can discuss what the next phase of reopening should look like. The answer to when we can open up to tourists is basically about how we can manage the spread of infection so that we do not compromise the good results that the Danes have achieved recently. We are, of course, following the situation in our neighbouring countries closely and are also constantly assessing whether this is an opportunity to adjust the restrictions on entry. Of course, the situation in the other countries also plays a role. As the questioner knows, we are discussing the plan for the reopening of Denmark together with the parties of the Danish Parliament, and here we have to decide on how we should give priority to opening up in the next phase, because there is no reason to hide the fact that we must give priority here too. I believe that there is a broad desire in the Folketing to ensure a controlled and gradual opening of the whole of Denmark, and that there is a common understanding that the steps to be taken in connection with the reopening of Denmark must be decided politically on the basis of health professional recommendations and analyses. Unfortunately, we can't open everything at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506133240	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506133242	Will the Minister ensure that the issue of border closure and opening up will be a subject discussed in the government, given that the pressure of infection is actually lower south of the border, and that, if we were to follow the logic of the Minister, perhaps German families should be allowed to go to summer houses on the West Coast and then instead limit some of the Danes' movements within Denmark? In other words, when reference is constantly made to the risk of infection, it should be borne in mind that the risk of infection appears to be lower south of the border. So the question is: will the Minister ensure that the border opening is discussed in the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506133327	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506133328	In fact, the government is constantly considering border restrictions. It is not the case that we say: now we wait until 10 May and then we look at it there. Well, we're constantly considering what the situation looks like. And the opening up of Danish society will certainly take place in some phases. We have had phase one, and then we have probably had what can be called phase one and a half, and right now the parties of the Danish Parliament are discussing what should then be included in what one might appropriately call phase two, which will hardly lead to the opening up of the whole of society, and therefore it is to be expected that further steps will be taken. In all these phases and on the way, the question arises: What are some border restrictions that are relevant to have, and what do you not need to have?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506133410	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506133412	But the Minister does not really relate to what I am asking, namely the situation that they really have a lower number of infected citizens compared to the population south of the border and that it is at least among the lowest, we can see. This is precisely the reason why we should discuss the opening of the border and get to grips with it, also in view of the fact that the Germans are now announcing a border opening. What I am asking the Minister to address is the logic of maintaining border closures when there seems to be no major risk of infection by people who are south of the Danish-German border.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506133452	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506133454	Well, as I said earlier, I also think it is a relevant element to look at, i.e. how the pressure of infection is in countries to which one might consider opening up. Of course, it is relevant to consider whether the risk of further infection being drawn across the border is large or not so great. How can we control it? How can we ensure, if someone comes across the border, that we can relate to them in health care, but also that they can relate to our recommendations, etc.? So the pressure of infection in the other countries is, of course, relevant when considering the opening of borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506133528	Then it is co-questioner Mrs Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506133530	Now I understand from the Minister for Justice that this is, of course, a matter that is being discussed within the government. And I understand that, because we know that this is based solely on a political decision. However, what we need to understand is what arguments it is about, what knowledge the government bases its discussions on. What kind of knowledge does the government end up making its decisions on the basis of? I am here with an answer given by the Minister of Justice's colleague, namely the Minister for Health and the Elderly, to the Committee on Health and the Elderly, and from this it is clear that the Statens Serum Institut does not make any medical assessment of the reopening of the border. The question has been asked whether an analysis is being carried out in parallel with that carried out by the Statens Serum Institut prior to the reopening of hairdressers, masseurs, etc. etc., i.e. the reopening that took place on 16 April.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506133638	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506133639	But that is also what I said in one of the previous questions, namely that when we have to assess this opening, the calculation that lies is too gradual openings of different elements in relation to how it will affect the spread of infection in Denmark. The risk is, of course, if we are going to open up too quickly, that the rate of infection is increasing and that our health services are coming under pressure. And that is why, of course, we need to consider what the overall effect of opening up is. However, in relation to the question of the closure of the border, it is true, as I have also said sometimes, that this was a political decision and not a decision on health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506133717	Then it's Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506133719	But my question then is what kind of knowledge we know that the Statens Serum Institute is not involved in an assessment, a health professional assessment of a reopening of the border. That is the answer to the Committee on Health and the Elderly here in the Danish Parliament, and the Minister for Justice also emphasizes here that it alone is political. But does the Minister not believe that the Danish Parliament and the Danish society at all have a right to know what it is actually for assessments that are the basis for the government to make the decisions that the government makes and which have such far-reaching consequences for large parts of Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506133805	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506133806	But that's what I've been trying to sketch sometimes. And in connection with the last opening, I understand that the calculations and the decision-making basis were also forwarded to the Folketing, where it was assessed how the development could be in relation to different curves in Denmark, if we opened up: What happens if we change our behaviour, for example, and if we don't keep our distance, etc.? What can happen to that? And there are a number of elements that are also included here in this assessment: What can happen if we open up shopping centres or do other things? And that is our basis for decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506133847	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506133849	After all, the minister replies in the sense that the Minister only addresses the general debate on opening up. What we are asking is the difference between a Danish family and a German family in the cottage on the West Coast. If Germany, as is clear from the main question, is one of the countries with the lowest number of infected compared to the number of citizens, why can there not be a German family in the summer house as well as a Danish family? That's what we're asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506133920	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506133920-2	As I said before, I do not believe that the questioner's party has taken a stand where they have said that we must immediately lift the restrictions on entry. If you have not put yourself there, it is of course because you also recognise the basic premise, namely that it is a global priority. We need to consider how, overall, we are opening up society. There are all kinds of interests in it and good reasons for taking out various elements, and I think that is actually a good reason why our tourism industry is suffering, as the tourism industry is doing at the moment, and we have no interest in keeping the border closed, except, of course, to ensure that we continue to control this disease.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506134001	Thank you. Before going to the next question, I should like to inform you that the question raised by Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard under number 36 to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, S 1019, will be withdrawn at the request of the questioner. The question shall be put to the vote on Wednesday 13 May 2020. Then we move on to the next question to the Minister for Justice, and it's about something other than corona. The question has been asked by Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506134031	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506134032	Thank you very much, President. I read out: Will the Minister state which recommendations of the Freedom of expression commission that the Minister intends to pursue?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506134041	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506134042	Thank you for the floor, President. Last Thursday, the Freedom of Speech Commission presented its report on the conditions and conditions of freedom of expression in Denmark after more than two years of work. The Commission has done a thorough piece of work which shows that freedom of expression has a good framework and conditions in Denmark. We now have a solid foundation for discussing how to ensure even more the framework and conditions of freedom of expression. The report goes a long way and deals with everything from the issue of freedom of expression and the freedom of expression of public employees to social media and information. One of the most important themes of the report is, for me, to see the issue of the security of speech, which is about the fear of terrorism and violence, threats and harassment, which causes many people to refrain from participating in the public debate. Our constitutional right to express ourselves is a cornerstone of our society. We have to cherish it. It is important that we, as a society, take a strong stand against the threat to freedom of expression. I have therefore already indicated that I am ready to see whether there is a need to tighten up the penalties for threats to prevent others from expressing themselves and taking part in the public debate. That said, the Commission has dealt with many other interesting and important areas. I'm thinking, among other things. on the freedom of expression of public employees and on social media. These are some issues on which the government is very concerned and which we will follow up. Finally, I would like to stress that I look forward to taking part in the debate on freedom of expression, which is the main purpose of the work of the reduced Commission and which I hope will unfold both here in the Folketing and in society in general. Then I think there is reason to say that when I said at the outset that the Freedom of Freedom Commission delivered its report on the terms and conditions of freedom of expression in Denmark last Thursday after more than two years' work, it is part of the complete picture that it is some time since the Commission sent its report to the Ministry, but because of the covid-19 situation it would like it to be published only when the circumstances were better, in order to have the debate that we are going to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506134246	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506134248	Thank you very much, and thank you to the Minister for actually describing some of the main conclusions of the report by the Freedom of Freedom Commission. It is, of course, a report that we in the Danish Parliament are interested in, and I think we are also looking forward to doing so among the citizens, i.e. these questions, and have looked forward to it very much. And, of course, because it is thorough, it has been a long time in the process. Nevertheless, as the Minister has said, the debate and discussion are very important. One of the conclusions, and perhaps the most important conclusion, is that freedom of expression is threatened most in Denmark by terrorism and violence or threats of terror and violence. And there I would like to hear, in addition to the Minister's such repetition of some of the conclusions, what effective measures the government expects to take to put an end to the greatest threat to freedom of expression we have in Denmark today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506134353	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506134354	I think this is a very, very relevant point that is being struck down: the issue of our security of expression, that is, the issue of the fact that we are actually dared and will speak without risking being harassed, being terrorised, being persecuted because of those statements. And I am, in fact, ready to see whether there is a need for us to tighten up the penalties for threats to prevent others from expressing themselves or taking part in the public debate. Because I think it is important that we mark, including criminal law, that we protect freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506134431	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506134432	I would also say that the Danish People's Party is certainly also prepared to look at this. The question is, is something going on? Do you do something? Does the government have any intentions in the bag? Otherwise the rest of us will have to try to come up with some suggestions here in the Folketing, which can show the way for the government. And the point of the question was actually to say: yes, it is fine that you are ready to look at something. But what happens? What does the government have to do with this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506134502	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506134504	The questioner's party is always good at moving these day orders quickly. When you're in government, it's kind of like, what doesn't take a minute, 15 minutes, and everything else takes twice as long. And the next opportunity we have to make regulation is, in fact, when we meet again for the new session in October. And there is my expectation that this will be one of the elements, i.e. a follow-up to the Freedom of expression commission, which we will be looking at together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506134538	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506134540	Yes, and then I would like to ask: how much does the Minister really think we should increase the penalty in relation to these things? Because it's pretty telling when you read this report that, for example, there's... Muslims in Denmark, many Muslims believe that it should be illegal to criticise Islam. So, it is quite disturbing, I think, that there are a lot of people who think that the freedom of expression we have in Denmark, also in relation to religions, should not be allowed to have. In fact, it must be abolished. So it is also a question of integration. I would like to hear: will the government, and it is not just the Minister of Justice, but the government as a whole, come up with a challenge to the Folketing, which contains initiatives in various areas? And that also applies to integration, because if you want to be in Denmark, you also have to conform; then you also have to want Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506134637	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506134638	I do not know exactly how much the penalty should be paid, and I think that is also in what the author says, nor does raising the penalty solve the problem in itself. I think there needs to be some attitudinal processing. We have already worked together in other areas. For example: we are in the process of drawing up a national action plan against anti-Semitism, just as we are working on how to counter hate crimes. This is very much a question, for example. Attitude work, on education in primary school, on initiatives to ensure that we have a better common knowledge base. And I really imagine that it is a little the same with freedom of expression, that is, that we have to work on attitudes and ensure that there is broad, broad support and understanding for the value of freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506134728	Thank you, and that is the end of paragraph 8. The next question is also for the Minister for Justice, and it is also for Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506134737	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506134738	Thank you for that, and this is what it says: is the Minister prepared to open a debate on a change to the public law so that real openness can be introduced into the public administration?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506134751	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506134754	Thank you for the floor. As the honourable Member is well aware, it has not been possible in the past to reach agreement on an agreement to amend the Public Service Act. This was tried with the conciliation discussions, which were stranded in autumn 2018. We have also been debating the question of changing the public law since, at the latest in January, here in the Danish Parliament. Now the Freedom of Information Commission has submitted its report, and the Commission recommends, among other things, that the Public Service Act be revised in order to provide greater access to factual information. Under the current Public Procurement Act, access to information is already available on the actual basis of a case. The right of access to that information must ensure that the public can have an insight into the basis on which decisions are taken. The positions in relation to the Public Service Act are well known, and the prospect of reaching agreement seems to me to have not changed. That is why I have no need to reopen discussions on amending the Public Service Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506134856	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506134857	If we look back a little at this assembly, it was the case that we had a question debate called F 20 on the public law here earlier, and there was a proposal for adoption by the Danish People's Party, which in fact received the support of all the parties in the opposition, minus the Left. In other words, only the government and the Left did not support it. And it was, of course, that we should look again at the Public Service Act and that the government should take care that now we would do it once and for all, as we have talked about many times since it was adopted in 2014. It is also the case that the Ombudsman has criticised the way in which the Public Prosecutor's Act of 2014 leads to greater secrecy around political decision-making processes. When we consider it appropriate to ask again now, after some time of reflection, it is not really for any reason other than that the Freedom of expression commission is expressing itself precisely on this issue, where there are experts who have been sitting with this work very in-depth over a long time and who are criticising the Public Service Act for being too closed. And that is why I think it is appropriate to say: if there is any point in us putting some clever people to evaluate this over a long time, and they give a clear message to us here in the Danish Parliament that there is reason to look at it too closed, then I really think it is relevant that the government also takes a position on it rather than relaxing, as I slightly perceive the government has done. And I actually sensed from the Minister for Justice that the government might want to look at it at some point. And then my question is: when is this? The report by the Freedom of Speech Commission is very clear on this point. So when is something going on from the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506135101	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506135102	It is true that in the question debate we had, a proposal for adoption was adopted. It was adopted by the Government and the Left Party, which represents a majority in the Folketing, and which stands on the view that at present we think that there is a fair balance between, on the one hand, the public interest and, on the other hand, that the government must be able to make internal, preliminary considerations in confidence. And it hasn't actually shifted. I haven't heard any new arguments, so it hasn't actually shifted with the report of the Freedom of Movement Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506135141	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506135142	I must admit that I am a little surprised that the Minister now completely shuts down the book called looking at the Public Service Act again, because there has been a very hard work going on, but then it failed to agree. I have to say in parentheses that the Danish People's Party was not part of this at all, because we did not vote in favour of this blackout or closure law, or whatever you call it, then, but whatever you call it, we welcome it if some changes can be made in the right direction. That is why I would like to ask the government again: is it really the case that the public law is not going to be debated at all and, in particular, the two rules that have been criticized while this government is sitting?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506135221	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506135221-2	In politics one must always be careful not to say "never" or for that matter "always," which is why I am not saying that it never comes up. After all, timing is so often crucial in politics, because the problems we face must always be seen in the relevant context. However, the fundamental dilemma, namely whether the balance between the public interest and the need for the government to be able to make preliminary internal reflections, is not, in my view, with the report by the Commission on Freedom of Movement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506135258	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506135259	That was a little black talk for me. I'm sorry, I'm telling you. I think we need the answers in the Folketing, which are of course interested in this. I have to say in parentheses that the Danish Journalist Federation has also assessed the Public Act as the most closed public law in the Nordic countries, and I do not think we can really be familiar with that. And when the Freedom of expression commission says it's as clear as it did here about a week ago... they're basically inside the cases... it's a message to the government that can't be misunderstood. So you can't make a clear speech here? Will you open that book, in other words ensure that there is more openness in the processes, or will you not, and when will you make that decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506135345	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506135346	In fact, I think I answered that in the opening answer to the question, where I concluded by saying: that is why I see no need to reopen discussions on amending the Public Service Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506135402	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Peter Skaarup, and we thank the Minister for Justice. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 10 on the agenda, and this is a question for the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities of Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506135416	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506135418	Thank you for that, President. Can the Minister state what improvements have been made to the European Commission's proposals for aid to the agricultural and horticultural industry, such as: included suggestions for help to producers of potted plants and cut flowers, for which the government worked, and how the Minister will work to help Danish horticulture in a future EU aid package?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506135438	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506135441	Thank you very much for the question. I know, like the questioner, that the horticultural industry is badly affected. Fortunately, we are now hearing from the industry that the markets in, among others. Germany is so small, but the situation is still serious. At a video meeting of EU Agriculture Ministers on 25 March, I highlighted the horticultural sector as one of the most affected sectors. On 23 April the Commission announced several measures to stabilise agricultural markets, but there was no financial support for horticulture. However, the Commission helped the plant and flora sector by allowing voluntary tendering. Specifically, for six months producer groups may voluntarily agree on withdrawal from the market, free distribution, joint promotion and production planning. Danish Gartneri was disappointed that the Commission's proposal did not contain financial support and Dansk Gartneri did not want to use the market regulation instruments contained in the proposal. This, and also the general scepticism on the part of the government with regard to procurement management, led the government to refrain from voting. However, the proposal was adopted. In addition to adapting the Danish aid package, which we have done with compensation for perishable goods, I know that an association of fruit and vegetable producers is considering activating crisis measures, which can also be implemented with additional EU support for, among others. withdrawal or free distribution of members' products. Of course, the Ministry will look constructively at this if there is a request from the profession for it. We are following developments in the European Union and also other Member States closely, and next week I will again discuss this situation with EU Agriculture Ministers and the Agriculture Commissioner. This will take place on 13 May.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506135651	Sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506135653	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I would like to ask how the Minister intends to pursue this. Because it is quite crucial that we have a look at how to ensure the long range of not least producers of flowers, who are in a very, very cramped situation and who are looking at all the possibilities. What does the Minister expect of that meeting with the Commissioner for Agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506135720	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506135722	It is clear that I stand by what I also said at the March part-session that we can see that the horticultural sector is badly affected, even though we can now see that the market is beginning to open up, hopefully, and that is a positive view. So I will stick to the line we have taken so far and continue to point out to the Commission that here we have challenges. But, of course, what I am most concerned about is if the sector wants to take advantage of some of the opportunities that already exist at present, and there are indications, as I have said, that at least one of the producer organisations will do so. As I said, I will look at this constructively.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506135812	Could the Minister perhaps be a little more specific in relation to what proposals the Minister could have to attend that meeting with the Commissioner for Agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506135821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506135822	I do not know whether there are any more concrete proposals to make to the Commission. It is clear that we have pointed out that measures should also be put in place at EU level that will hold hands in the horticultural sector. As I said at the March part-session, there is no new point of view here. What I am most concerned about is, of course, to ensure that the opportunities that have already been opened up can be exploited. If the sector wants what I mentioned with the proposal that is already on the table, then I am constructive about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506135907	Sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506135908	Thank you. After all, what concerns the Left and me is that we are looking at all the possibilities that may be available to solve the challenges facing flower gardeners, which are quite serious. Let me just mention that in the Odense region it is between 5 000 and perhaps up to 10 000 jobs that are affected by this one way or another. And it has to be said that with the measures that have been taken so far, there is not such a great movement in the government, and that is why I am concerned with all the proposals that can lead to improvements. We have recently seen that the Dutch have been out with an aid package on the other side of 4 billion. kr. Could the Minister open the door to further action in relation to the horticultural industry?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506135949	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506135950	I would like to assure the questioner that we are in close dialogue with Dansk Gartneri on the challenges they face, and we have actually been doing so all along. We are also looking at whether there is anything in other countries we can learn from. I am also aware of the Dutch model, although it has not been finally implemented yet. It seems that it is very similar to the Danish one, but it is clear that the amounts in the Netherlands are much larger when we look at the figures because the sector down there is 13 times larger than in Denmark. But the principles, as we see for the time being in the arrangements introduced by the Dutch, are the same as the Danish ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140028	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Lars Christian Lilleholt and thanks to the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities. We move on to paragraph 11, which is a question for the Minister for Health and the elderly. It is tabled by Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, Left, and enquires of Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140041	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140045	Thank you. My question is how much the Minister believes that the pressure of infection will increase if German families are given the opportunity to spend their holidays in summer houses in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140051	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140053	After all, most Danes have changed their everyday lives. The Corona virus has had an impact on all aspects of our lives, from social interaction to work and economy and also the tourism economy. But thanks to a joint effort from all parts of society, we have managed to reduce the spread of infection in Danish society so much that it is now possible gradually and controlled to start reopening our society. What is important now is that we tread cautiously and that we do not compromise positive developments, because the corona virus is new and still unknown. As the pandemic develops and experiences from individual countries, our professionals are getting to know the disease better, but there are still a number of questions to which no clear answers are available. It is therefore vital that we continue to follow the recommendations of the authorities to keep physical distance, to have good hand hygiene, etc. The Corona virus, as most people know, has a built-in time delay of approx. 10-14 days, from an increase in the pressure of infection to the fact that it can be read in our Danish hospitals, and thus also to take the appropriate steps to make the necessary brake on the spread of infection. That is why the reopening must be gradual, so that the capacity of the hospital is not exceeded. We must have as much knowledge as possible about all the things being put into effect, and that is what the parties are invited to discuss again this afternoon. The questioner asks what the Minister believes about the pressure of infection, and the questioner does not make me speculate about changes in the pressure of infection and how the German pressure of infection is and from which, in Germany, the possible families to which the questioner refers should come. At the present stage of the epidemic, it is essential to ensure a balance between the gradual opening-up of society and the continued ability to manage the spread of infection of the corona virus. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140257	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140258	Thank you for your answer. I do not want the Minister to speculate either. I understand from the Minister's colleague, the Minister for Justice, that the government is in fact making a full assessment of the risk by opening the border and possibly by doing so gradually. I assume that the Minister for Health is fully aware that Germany is one of the countries in the European Union that has the lowest number of infected citizens per year. the number of inhabitants. This means that the pressure of infection may even be lower in Schleswig-Holstein than it is in Denmark. That is why I ask: what is the difference between a Danish family or a German family in the cottage on the West Coast?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140336	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140337	Yes, I am following very, very closely the struggle of our European colleagues and, of course, our neighbouring countries with the corona virus. I have to say that this is a battle that is developing and, fortunately, it is going in the right direction in most places now, but it is not something we can take for granted, that is to say, that it continues to go in the right direction, and that is why we need to be in close dialogue with our professionals and our neighbouring countries about it. When the questioner spoke about Germany, she mentioned one state, but there are, after all, many different Länder in Germany which may have different pressures of infection. At least we know this from other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140413	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140415	I assume that the Minister is aware that Germany is one of the countries in the European Union that has the lowest number of infected citizens per year. That is to say, Germany as such. What I am asking is how it is included in the assessment of a possible border opening. If the Minister is not going to answer the question I have actually asked, my question is: how does this assessment of the pressure of infection in Germany form part of the government's discussion on opening the border?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140447	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140448	It is probably difficult to reply briefly to such a question in the 30 seconds that I have here and now, but it is quite logical that the assessment of our borders, and this applies both to Germany and to the Nordic countries, is very much linked to how the pressure of infection is in Denmark and how the pressure of infection is in the other countries. It is quite logical that this is closely linked, so there is a very, very good point to the questioner. But I cannot in such a short time, so few seconds, explain how the work is assessed, which models you can look into in the coming time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140522	Thank you. Then there is a fellow questioner, and that is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140526	Thank you. Following on from the answers given by the Minister to the questions we have asked, I would like to ask how low the Minister thinks the pressure of infection should be before the border with Germany can be opened.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140548	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140550	I have full respect for the interest here, and it is shared by a great many, and we have no intention or desire to keep any things closed, either our borders or other parts of our society, longer than is absolutely necessary, so I understand the question. As far as the pressure of infection in a society is concerned, I would say that there are so many underlying factors and, in the case of a country such as Germany, which is so large and so diverse, I think we need to narrow it down much, much more. And we are neither in Denmark nor in the rest of Europe at this time, where we can say exactly how this summer is going to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140630	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140631	No, and that makes it extra difficult that the government sits with completely closed maps and does not share their knowledge, let alone their deliberations with the Folketing, and that is precisely why we are actually trying to learn more about what is the basis for the government's decisions. There is much evidence that Germany will open the border with Denmark on 15 May has been mentioned as the date for it. I would like to ask the Minister: what will the Danes who cross the border with Germany do when they return to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140710	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140711	I would ask you to put the question in writing, and then we will find the right minister of order who will then be able to provide the answer to the questioner. I just have to correct one thing, and that's that nobody plays with closed cards. We have invited the Danish Parliament's parties to a discussion of the reopening of society and put forward a large report from the Statens Serum Institut, from the University of Copenhagen, from DTU and from Roskilde University in front of the parties, so that they can help discuss the reopening of Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140742	Then it's Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140745	After all, the Minister has been aware of my question for a week and the Minister has had plenty of speaking time today. If you had not made all the general comments, you would have had plenty of time to answer my question. So I guess the thing is, the minister won't deal with it. I would, however, like to give it one last chance, so I would like to ask the Minister whether he believes that there will be a difference in the pressure of infection in relation to whether a Danish family or a German family is staying in the summer house on the West Coast.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140817	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140818	After all, it depends entirely on the pressure of infection in the Federal Republic of Germany from which the possible German family comes, i.e. the pressure of infection in that state at that time. And in relation to a thoughtful scenario, where the state of Germany, from which the family we are now talking about here comes, had exactly the same pressure of infection as the place in Denmark to which you are travelling, I think the logical thing is to say that it would be the same pressure of infection. But there are so many parameters behind such an issue that it hardly makes sense, I think, to pursue it further. This requires you to know which state it is, what it is for some people, how they go, how they are exposed to infection, etc. What about the differences in Denmark? ) Differences in Denmark? You can read that in the report. President-in-Office of the Council. ) Excuse me, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140907	There are no further questions to the Minister for Health and the Elderly from Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen and Mrs Ulla Tørnæs in this round. But there is, in return, Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party, where the questioner is Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140923	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140926	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140939	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506140939-2	First of all, I agree entirely with the questioner that Denmark must and must be better prepared for an epidemic; the world must be better prepared for a pandemic. And it has to be said that the world's leading researchers and Denmark's leading researchers cannot even now say exactly when the covid-19 hit Europe.It just shows how early we are in the process. There are conjecture, and there are still researches in it, but we cannot say exactly when the covid-19 hit Denmark. We can't say exactly. We expect it to be this year, but the newest thing is that it may even hit Europe at the end of last year, perhaps even earlier. And that means we're very, very early in this process, and what we just know is that when you're on the back, you lose to the pandemic; then the epidemic wins when you're on the back. That is why it is so crucial that we have acted quickly in Denmark, and that is why we are in the situation now that we can begin to reopen our society and have not shut down as much as many other countries have had to, and have not experienced the kind of excess mortality that a large number of countries in the world have unfortunately experienced. This also means that when I have said "A," I must also say "B" that we must, in relation to the mistakes that have been made, we have said from the beginning that the authorities have not tried this before, none of us in the Danish Parliament have tried this before • of course mistakes will be made, but the important thing is that you correct in lightning fast when you get smarter and when you learn more about the situation. And that is also what will continue. When we ask specifically whether a Corona Commission should be set up, I would say that I think it is too early to make a precise definition of what such an evaluation should be like. But no matter how long this epidemic will last before us, we hope it won't last that long, but it may also be a long time to evaluate when we get into more crumble waters.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506141142	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506141143	I am very pleased that the Minister says yes to the fact that we must at least evaluate the whole process. The minister then referred to a great many things, which I shall try to avoid altogether from a question which I have asked the Minister and which is also running today, whether we should check whether there have been covid-19 infected in the past. And compared to how lucky and talented we have been, there are still some missing here and there. But I would like to know whether the Minister will bring with him the things that are also problematical in relation to precisely the availability of protective equipment, in relation to the different strategies versus the others, in relation to whether we have had the right test and respirator capacity, and in relation to how the coordination between the Statens Serum Institut, the Danish Health Authority, the Danish Agency for Patient Safety and the Danish Medicines Agency has worked, i.e. how it has all worked together. Is this something to be taken into account in that evaluation and study?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506141239	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506141240	I would like to do what must be taken care of as a minister, just to say yes. Because that is something that must be taken care of for the reason that, of course, it is binding. So that is my intention. I think that all the issues mentioned here should be looked at, among other things. The protective equipment system is now part of our critical infrastructure. They weren't before, but they should be, and that is to say, it makes some very, very high demands on protective equipment production, procurement, reservation, stocks, etc., strategies, tests and respirators that we have struggled with, not so much with our respirators, thank God, but tests we have struggled to obtain and coordinate between the regimes. All the things that I can see them now, I think it would be clearly sensible and quite obvious to evaluate all of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506141327	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506141328	When we make an evaluation, that is to say a commission that we want, we should also bring in some of the other ministries. Is this something that we are considering precisely to see the financial consequences? Because it is clear that when you shut down the whole country, there have not been many infected, but it has had some financial consequences instead. Is that something that is intended to be included in that evaluation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506141354	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506141355	I think that is obvious, of course. It is clear that the Ministry of Health and the Elderly has been a driving force in relation to our governments and in relation to many things. But it has been a close, close cooperation, and it is a close, close cooperation, and it must be a close, close cooperation with a number of other ministries, so I think that is clearly sensible. I just have to arrest one thing: this story that we've shut down so heavily and that it really hurts our economy. Yes, we have taken a hard look at Denmark and the people have really made an effort, but compared to a large number of other countries in Europe, we have not shut down nearly as much. After all, there are countries which have imposed a curfew and which are only now beginning to shake on it. So we've gotten through lucky, while our overmortality is at a completely different and much better level thank God!
ParlaMint-DK_20200506141440	Thank you. Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506141446	Thank you for your reply. I really think that the Minister is quite fresh and cowardly in answering the questions that are being asked, namely that we want a commission to be examined exactly how the whole work to stem this pandemic has been carried out so that we can learn from it in the future. And perhaps I would like others to be as open as the Minister was here at Question Time and in his reply to say: well, mistakes have been made and we must learn from them. The question from the Danish People's Party is this: will the government, on this basis, if we agree on it, ensure that we get a commission to look at these things in depth so that we can learn both from the corona, but indeed also from some of the other pandemics and epidemics that have been, so that we can work our way out of what we may have to recognise can come again, in a different way and in a more preventive way than in the case of the corona?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506141604	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506141605	First of all, thank you for the introduction. You always have to listen when you get something that sounds like a praise, because then there's a lot of wonders. So it was a praise for acknowledging mistakes, if you have to understand it correctly. We have said from the outset that in this situation some mistakes will necessarily be made along the way. Not everything has been equally beautiful, but I am fully on the goal and am so proud of the work that our employees, including the employees in my own ministry, have done in this time. It has been extremely crucial that action has been taken and that swift and resolute action has been taken. I also believe that all figures show that this has been done in relation to our health in Denmark. I think it is too early to start saying how such an evaluation should be designed, also because it is true what the questioner says there will probably be something more. But what we just know is that it won't be the same type of pandemic. It may be another health crisis that comes, for example. We have to be prepared for another health crisis which affects the whole world within at least a few decades, that is to say, which will be something, but which is not pandemic, but has other health aspects. So it needs to be evaluated, but how exactly the setup should be, I'm not going to go into it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506141719	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506141720	After all, we have seen in the media today that perhaps it can happen that the coronapandemic can die out at some point, and that is fantasticly positive. And when I praised the Minister a few moments ago for a clear speech, something was also said about this. There is precisely the fact that we are impatient after learning from these things, so that we can be at the forefront, among other things. equipment and testing equipment, which some other countries have been better at than we have. So I would like to ask the Minister a few questions. Paragraph 1: Are we going to have a commission? Paragraph 2: When does the Minister think that there will be a basis for decision to be made before Parliament about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506141806	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506141808	In connection with tests, it has to be said that Denmark is now among the countries that test the most sovereign per year. I think that's how it's supposed to be done... most sovereignly. We're on top now. We weren't a few months ago, so we worked hard on it. So the questioner is right that we had problems with it, but there is really also work to solve it, and we are now a place that is much better than we were before, and therefore completely in the world stop. What a fine example! After all, we should not stop building up our protective stocks now, because we are in the favourable situation that the epidemic may be dying out or at least at a very low level, according to what we can read from the CDC. This does not change the fact that it can come back up again, and that is why protection work must continue completely continuously. When will we be ready? When are we in such a mess that it makes sense to change that? I cannot answer that at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506141854	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. Then it's Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506141859	It all sounds so positive on the part of the Minister. I would say that I receive an incredible number of requests from staff who do not feel heard. It is some of them out there in the municipalities, in home care, who still do not have protective equipment so they can feel safe when they go to work. That must be some of the things you want to look at in a commission. When we say a commission, it must of course also be someone from outside who goes in and looks at how Denmark has handled the crisis. And then that does not mean that we can simply say that we think we have done well in comparison with others. We'll see if we've done well for all our staff.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506141939	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506141941	I also receive a lot of inquiries from our amazing staff, both in hospital and health care in general and in our care for the elderly. And I have also received inquiries about exactly what is being asked here. So I think it is quite obvious to go along; it would be a huge mistake if, in such an evaluation process, we did not move out and take on board the experiences, considerations and frustrations of the staff, because work has really been done. It's our front staff, the ones we owe so much in this time. So it will be quite obvious and it will be a great failure if we do not take them with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506142025	Thank you. That was the end of Question 12. We move on to the next question to the Minister for Health and the Elderly, who has also been asked by Mrs Liselott Blixt, Dansk Folkeparti. And the co-author is also Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506142035	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506142042	Thank you very much. What thoughts does the Minister have about the Statens Serum Institut already on 28 January 2020 brought to the attention of the Danish Health Authority that there was evidence of mild cases and infection before onset of symptoms?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506142059	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506142100	I receive ongoing health professional advice from our authorities, and I have previously informed the Health and Older People's Committee that the Danish Health Authority has provided the following information, and I quote: The State's Serum Institute (SSI), which is responsible for risk assessment in Denmark, informed the Danish Health Authority (SST) in an email dated 28 January 2020 that there were signs of mild cases and infection before onset of symptoms. This was based on a specific case abroad where the assessment was that a person who had tested positive for COVID-19 was most likely infected by a close contact, which was asymptomatic immediately at the time of contact. This information came from a meeting of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). This information was discussed at a joint meeting between SSI and SST on 4 February 2020. The Danish Health Authority followed up to 11 March a containment strategy, among other things. based on the recommendations of the ECDC and WHO, which did not recommend tests for asymptomatic entry, but recommended focus on traveler information. The risk of infection from a potential asymptomatic entry was assessed to be very low and significantly lower than that of a person with symptoms. Furthermore, the assessment was that it was problematic to test asymptomatic individuals, as due to the very low concentration of viruses there is a high risk of false negative responses and thus of false security of the test response. Travellers from the risk area were instead urged, in line with international recommendations, to pay particular attention and promptly act on any symptoms upon return. It appeared from the guidelines published by the Danish Health Authority on 5 February that examples of person-to-person infection have been seen before onset of symptoms, but that at that time the WHO estimated that infection occurs mainly from patients with symptoms. So it took 8 days, from the Danish Health Authority got information from the Statens Serum Institut, and 1 day from the meeting, until the board had it included in the public guidelines available.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506142259	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506142300	That was a very long answer to a question that I did not ask. I asked when the Minister had been confronted with this. When was the minister told that it could be infected before the onset of symptoms? I know the Minister has informed us that the Minister was told, but not when. That is why the question I am asking is this: when was the Minister told and made aware of the information and what was the background to the information that could be infected before an invitation to tender?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506142335	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506142337	Now I am sorry to correct the questioner, but that is not the question that has been asked. The question from the questioner is: What thoughts does the Minister have about the Statens Serum Institut already on 28 January 2020 informed the Danish Health Authority that there were signs of mild cases and infection before onset of symptoms? That's the question. So that's the question I'm answering. I would like to highlight and say that, on the basis of a precautionary principle, on 29 January, the day following the 28th, as part of the Patient Safety Management Board, it was extended to persons who had had contact with confirmed or suspected cases of covid-19 48 hours before onset of symptoms. So it was the Board of Patient Safety that reacted there in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506142419	Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506142420	The minister says so and it was one of the answers the minister gave here that there was a single case. As I can see in that note of January 28th, there are studies that show that you can infect before you have symptoms of the corona virus. Is it not true that this is not a single case?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506142444	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506142445	I can add here that Danish media wrote about this situation, i.e. that information had now come that asymptomatic persons could infect Berlingske on 28 January, TV 2 on 1 February, Jyllands-Posten on the same day, i.e. on 1 February. It was one of the things that began to come out in some reports, and it was also some of that, i.e. these reports, which the Danish authorities also read, as well as that they also received advice from ECDC and WHO and acted on the recommendations. And then you had this precautionary principle in the Patient Safety Board in relation to detection.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506142522	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506142531	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. What amazes me a little is that the Minister does not answer the question raised by Mrs Liselott Blixt, namely when the Minister was informed of this matter which will appear at the Health Service on 28 January. So can we not be told here in the Folketing when the Minister was told about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506142559	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506142600	Yes, but I think that I, like everyone else, followed the Danish media, which means that it was an enlightenment which was perfectly transparent; it was public information. When Berlingske, TV2.dk and Jyllands-Posten in those days all wrote about this information, it was completely wide, and when the Board of Patient Safety on 29 January in their tracing starts to have people who have been with infected people up to 2 days before the infection is detected, then it is precisely, I have to say, a reaction to this and the precautionary principles that are there. On 5 February, a few days later, the Danish Health Service made clear in their statement that there was a person to be infected before the onset of symptoms, a statement which was fully public, and that is to say available to me and everyone else.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506142659	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506142700	After all, there was a consultation in the Danish Parliament last week, where there was no answer to the question I asked and which Mrs Liselott Blixt has also asked at least once in this Parliamentary Question Time. So I would like to ask the Minister again: when did the Minister get January? When did that get on the minister's desk? I'm not talking about press reports. We have all been able to make sure of this, and some things you react to, some things you do not respond to. But when was the Minister directly informed? That is the question that has been asked both last week and now again many times.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506142740	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506142741	I recognize this kind of question from such the normal political boxing match • Who knew what when? This isn't a confidential or secret information. This information was to be found in completely open international studies, and it was written about it, at least in a large number of the largest Danish media. And in the same days it was issued in two of the agencies for which I am responsible, i.e. on their guidelines in relation to tracing, when it comes to the Board for Patient Safety, and in relation to the guidelines that the Danish Health Authority made just the last days of January and the first days of February. That is to say, there is a lot and I would almost like to quote a former prime minister, "nothing at all to come up with in this matter."
ParlaMint-DK_20200506142827	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506142831	Then we assume that the Minister knew this already on 29 January. Then you might ask: what is the reason why it took two months to change the guidelines? It did, of course, mean that the people who fit, for example. In other words, our elderly people in the nursing homes may have protected themselves better if they had known that there were some other guidelines. Two months went by! What was the reason for the two-month delay between the Minister's announcement and the change in the guidelines?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506142859	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506142900	About the Danish Health Authority's guidelines from 5 February, a few days after that information came to the Serum Institute, the Danish Health Authority writes: Person to be infected has been identified by close contact with the infected, including health care professionals or family members. The available reports show that a large part of the cases in China have not had known contact with sick people or markets, so the actual exposure is usually unknown. The incubation time is reported to be between 2 and 12 days around the median of 7 days. It is believed to be infected by drop-in and contact contamination, as with other human corona viruses, including SARS-Cov and MERS-CoV. And then it says: There have been examples of person-infected before onset of symptoms, but WHO estimates that infection occurs mainly from patients with symptoms. Quote out. So on February 5th, it's the National Health Service that's putting this out completely openly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506143010	Yes, please. Then we thank Mrs Liselott Blixt and Mr. Peter Skaarup. The next question to the Minister for Health and the Elderly is by Mr. Torsten Gejl, Alternative
ParlaMint-DK_20200506143028	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506143032	Thank you very much. In the alternative, we have been pleased that the government has made a more offensive test strategy, and in this respect it is interesting to hear what the result has been for the time being. So the specific question is: is the Minister's position that the test strategy to track down, test and isolate works?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506143059	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506143102	Thank you for that question. After all, it is a new disease that we are dealing with, and thus also a new country for health authorities throughout the world. We're following developments closely. The Danish Health Authority regularly reviews recommendations and guidelines on the basis of the latest available knowledge and changes in the situation. Since the first patient was tested positive for covid-19 in this country, we have moved over time from a containment strategy to a mitigation strategy. Tests have been an important part of the management of the covid-19, and the Danish Health Authority has continuously assessed the academic basis and arranged the approach for both testing, isolation and tracing from the stage at which the epidemic was taking place. Right now, we are at the stage where society needs to be opened up again. We belong in Denmark to the group of countries that have tested most per year. It is still the government's clear strategic objective that much more people must be tested. This is an important part of ensuring security and surveillance of infection in connection with the reopening. The new test strategy must thus help to pave the way for reopening. We must be able to diagnose, detect, prevent infection, confirm freedom of infection and, in addition, monitor the infection. Continuous efforts are being made to increase the number of tests and the regions have significantly expanded their testing capacity. An important step is also to open the new test track, Testcenter Denmark. Tests shall be combined with detection and isolation to avoid spread of infection. Our focus is on navigating Denmark as well as possible through the pandemic. Right now, the figures speak for themselves. Although it is too early to conclude something final, it is positive that, compared with other countries, we are experiencing a low pressure of infection.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506143240	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506143243	That was my only question, Madam President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506143245	Okay. There are no follow-up questions. Thank you. Then we move on to the next question, which is Question No. S 1056 to the Minister for Transport, and that is what Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506143302	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506143306	Thank you for that, President. I read out the question, and it is as follows: What is the Minister's view that the Vejlefjord Bridge has developed to become Jylland's transportal bottleneck with daily traffic figures before the corona crisis of more than 95,000?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506143327	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506143328	Thank you for the very good question. It is quite true that the motorway section over the Vejlefjord bridge is at the heart of the traffic flow. This applies both when you see it from a local perspective, but also from a regional traffic perspective and therefore one of the most trafficked motorway sections in Jutland. Before the Corona crisis, as the questioner rightly points out, the stretch formed a potential bottleneck on the East Jutland motorway, and once society has re-entered the gear again, we must of course also expect pressure to come again on our infrastructure, and this is also true of the Vejlefjord Bridge in the nature of the case. We in the government are very aware of the capacity challenge over Vejle Fjord, and it is also one of the traffic challenges that I expect us to discuss further with the questioner and the other transport rapporteurs of the Danish Parliament in connection with a future infrastructure plan. The recently published vvm statement of another project, namely the new Central Jutland motorway between Haderslev and Give, showed that, unfortunately, such a motorway would only lead to a limited relief of the Vejlefjord Bridge. Depending on the route, a relief of 3,000 to 5,000 vehicles per day can be expected, and a new Mid Jutland motorway does not therefore seem to be the solution to the capacity challenge at the Vejlefjord Bridge in the long term. A longer-term solution could probably be either to extend the existing bridge over Vejle Fjord to eight tracks or to build a new parallel four-track bridge. In fact, the Road Directorate has assessed it in a strategic analysis from 2014 • it is at a very initial level, it should be said, and neither has it been considered and it was assessed in this context that the two solutions at 2013 prices would amount to 1.1 billion respectively. kr. for enlargement and 1.7 billion for enlargement. kr. for the parallel bridge. In the calculation, however, the plant estimates are only for the bridges themselves and not for land-foreclosures and land-buildings on top, and we in the government have also not decided whether it is a project that needs to be continued, but I do think it is interesting, also in the light of the questioner's attention to the issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506143535	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506143536	Thank you for your answer. I know from yesterday's question debate that we agree that mobility is crucial for Denmark's economy, job creation and cohesion and for the freedom of the individual to move around. Large parts of Jylland's traffic have been channeled down over the Vejlefjord Bridge. The traffic from North Jutland and Østjylland comes via E45, and the traffic from large parts of Central Jutland, West Jutland and all of Northwest Jutland comes down Route 18, the motorway from Herning-Holstebro, and then there is also a lot of traffic coming down Route 13 from Viborg over Tørring, and this gives a huge concentration of traffic right on the Vejlefjord Bridge, plus that it gives a comprehensive bypass that you have to go all the way to eastern Jutland to get over the bridge there before you go to Germany, Zealand, or where you go. After all, economic growth has led to this huge increase, which the Minister referred to it is 40%. Since 2010 there is this critical tribulation. The mayor of Vejle can tell that it is sometimes like the good old days when there are long queues in through Vejle when there have been accidents on the bridge. That is why I would like to ask the Minister if he agrees with the need for us to set ourselves, in a future traffic agreement, the goal of finding a solution to the emerging traffic bottleneck at Vejle.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506143658	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506143659	I think it sounds like a really good idea to look at how we can solve it best and have a future perspective on it completely without prejudice. And the question of when we will have critical tribulation is, of course, also a little crucial here. I am, of course, well aware that the questioner is particularly concerned about whether a parallel motorway link can be established, but I would remind you that the figures do not indicate that this would be sufficient to resolve the bottlenecks at Vejle Fjord.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506143733	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506143734	It is not only the questioner who is concerned about a parallel motorway. I can tell you that social democracy has so far been a strong advocate of a Jutland parallel motorway. Indeed, it was the renowned socialist road rapporteur for many years, Colonel Jens Christian Lund, who launched the need for a Jutland parallel highway. Since then, changing S-transport rapporteurs have supported the project, and this was also a key part of the social democracy's traffic issue from the beginning of 2019. So I'm not alone in focusing on a Jutland parallel highway, and now it's investigated, and we have to make a decision. So I would like to ask whether the Minister is not aware of the fact that we have a study, that it is an option with a parallel highway and that there is a considerable relief I have a little doubt about the figures that lie there, it is some spreadsheets and they are grateful. And whether the Minister is not willing to follow up on the predecessors of the Social Democratic Party and focus on a Jutland parallel highway.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506143829	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506143830	There should be no doubt that I am, of course, disappointed that the pre-studies that exist show that there is so little relief from the Vejlefjord Bridge, because, as the questioner himself raises on this issue, it is a bottleneck, and that is why I think we should look at other solutions without prejudice. I also think, for example, that we should examine the considerations and things that have been examined, i.e. whether we can create a parallel bridge, whether we can extend the existing bridge, so that we can also examine whether this could be a relief. And I'm aware of the mayor's concerns. I have actually been visiting Vejle and have also heard about the alternatives that you think there are also locally, also down through the city.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506143915	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506143916	Well, now I hope the minister takes the figures from the study with a spruce of salt. Because when you pair it with common sense, that is, that there is a shortcut from Give directly towards Germany, then I think that really, a lot of people will go that way, whether there is a spreadsheet or not. Well, that's the reality of some theory. But it is a question of securing the future of the Jutland transport corridor north-south, which serves a large part of Denmark's industry, and there are some important elements there: a third Limfjord connection, extensions on E45. And then this jysian parallel highway, which is supposed to secure the capacity for the future. Does the Minister not agree that extensions to the E45 do not only do this, but that we also need to ensure the future of capacity with a parallel motorway?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506143956	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506143957	Now, of course, it is not within the framework of the question to take a position on the issue of a Central Jutland motorway in a future infrastructure agreement. In any case, I would like to make it clear that the very sensible projects at E45 where I have to say that it is probably more a matter of when they come than if they come, because they are very necessary, will also lead in the long term to even more traffic on the Vejlefjord Bridge. And that's why, of course, we're gonna have to look at that bottleneck too. And, of course, there is the question of timing, and we must then take that into account in the further infrastructure negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506144037	Thank you. The question is over. We shall continue with the next question, which is Question S 1057, and immediately ask, Mr President. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, and to the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506144047	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506144050	Thank you for that, President. The question is this: does the Minister agree with the need to draw up a national strategy for restarting the Danish air transport system as a foreign currency in the wake of the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506144100	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506144102	Thank you for the very topical question, and this merely shows that the discussions which we are also currently holding under the auspices of the Transport rapporteurs are, of course, also suitable for coming into the Chamber, because this is by its very nature something that we have been discussing on a regular basis in the circle of transport rapporteurs, whom I meet once or twice a week. Air transport, by its very nature, is international and, therefore, reopening will also depend on conditions in other countries. This is, of course, especially when it comes to cross-border air traffic, but also to national air traffic. Several countries, among others. Denmark, has introduced restrictions on entry in the attempt to control the spread of infection, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs advises against all unnecessary journeys. Because of the fact that flights can resume, there must again be confidence that countries have the infection under control, and as a result it will then be possible to reopen borders and relax restrictions. The aviation sector is one of the sectors which is most severely affected by the current crisis, and it can be expected that after the crisis there will also be a lower demand from passengers for a very long time. And that is why we are also in a close dialogue with the aviation industry on what future scenarios for normalisation should look like. Therefore, when it is possible to reopen aviation from a health point of view, it may also be necessary to support aviation in order to establish flights which are important for Denmark and the Danish economy. It is very important to restore vital European routes, but this must take account of health assessments. The situation is slightly different for domestic and foreign aviation, and domestic aviation is not affected to the same extent by conditions in other countries. Therefore, the government has not imposed restrictions on flights, which is why it is also possible for airlines to operate domestic flights as usual. However, it is my view that the companies are doing everything they can to follow the recommendations of the authorities, and both DAT and SAS have decided of their own motion to ensure as much distance between passengers as possible, and they are also looking at, among others. the use of muzzles and masks.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506144316	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506144317	Thank you for your answer. I very much agree with the health considerations put forward by the Minister. The Left doesn't have a complete solution for this yet, but we see the need for a strategy and a plan, which is why it is good that we get into dialogue about it. There is no doubt that aviation is of enormous importance to the Danish economy and employment, especially in relation to Copenhagen, where there are thousands of people employed by airlines and subcontractors and by the airport itself, and not least SAS plays a very important role as an engine with routes to large parts of the world. So holding hands under SAS as a Scandinavian giant who does not succumb to the corona crisis is an important political goal across parties. But there are also a number of other Danish airlines that are bleeding violently at this time, among others. companies serving domestic routes, and here the position of the Left is that domestic airports also play a crucial role, especially in terms of the objective of a coherent Denmark, and we must also ensure that the routes to Aalborg, Billund, Karup, Rønne, Sønderborg and Tirstrup get started. So the question is: Has the Minister given any thought as to how best Danish aviation can get through this crisis with its life force on the other side? This certainly requires a national strategy with clear political objectives, but also some instruments that we can define in cooperation with the industry. What has the Minister done about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506144443	Minister for Transport
ParlaMint-DK_20200506144444	First of all, I have an ongoing dialogue with the industry. I have also had discussions this week, of course virtually, you can't bring the entire aviation industry together in a meeting room in Denmark at this time, so it happens like many other meetings also virtually and of course has also listened to the challenges they see. I understand that we are well helped by the general aid packages, for which the Left has also helped to secure the broad political majority in favour in Denmark, and it is clear that, as long as they are driving, there is a reasonable sense of comfort in relation to the survival of the companies. But when you get out on the other side, there must of course be some uniform guidelines.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506144531	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506144532	Thank you. I choose to interpret it in such a way that the government intends to make a plan for how we can get on the other side of our aviation, and there are different means of action. One of the instruments, which in part is already used in relation to Bornholm, is that the public buys a certain number of seats, which helps to keep their hands under it. But then there is the reboot itself, where we are likely to have an effort at home, but also at a European level, and there I would like to ask the Minister's reflection on the European routes into Europe: is it going to be something to negotiate some priority routes that have to open first, or is it going to be with a big bang? And what about the rest of the world? Can the Minister say a little about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506144613	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506144615	After all, there are domestic flights already operating in Denmark, yes, and that will certainly be what comes first on the wings • excuse the turn of the turn but that the next thing will then be that some key air links need to be prioritised. It could be between capitals, or something similar, that should support business in particular. And in this respect, it is at least crucial that we also coordinate the European countries between them. No conclusions have been reached on this, but it was one of the things that was also discussed at the last informal Council meeting in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506144655	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506144656	Thank you. I think that right here we need not to end up with an airy plan, if I may say so, but that we will be reasonably concrete, also in order to create that calm and stability in the industry. In conclusion, however, I would like to ask whether the Minister can unveil the further process in the matter towards a strategy and a re-opening plan, including whether there are plans to involve the parties of the Folketing in the discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506144721	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506144722	After all, a sectoral partnership has already been established with aviation, and it is clear that I do not envisage any kind of re-opening of society, whatever part it is, which does not also involve all the parties of the Folketing. So I would certainly like to state here that I intend to have a process as open as I have had through the Corona crisis, that is to say, with regular briefing meetings, but also with real involvement when agreements need to be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506144812	Then the question is over. Thank you to the Minister for Transport, and thank you to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. We move on to the next question, which is Question No. S 1036, which is addressed to the Minister for Children and Education by Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506144839	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506144842	Thank you. How will the Minister explain that the pressure of infection becomes unacceptable when a teacher meets with two or three pupils under controlled conditions, respecting applicable distance and number requirements, while it is acceptable for young people to meet up to ten people outside school hours?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506144856	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506144857	This applies to some of the questions that are being asked here today, among others. of the questioner that the answer is that it is not open to the school's oldest classes. This means that the existing distance criteria for the largest classes do not exist, because they are not open at all. Is that something I want as Minister of Education? No! Well, I want us to have a strong primary school, wherever every child in Denmark should go. I do not think home education is a good alternative to that. Nor do I believe that distance learning is a good alternative to it. I believe that young people benefit from being with each other, seeing each other, having a community and playing together in the schoolyard on very common terms. That's why we run primary school. So I have no political desire for this. But we are in the midst of a global pandemic, and in the global pandemic we have had the opportunity in the first phase to open quietly and controlled, and that opening has not applied to the large classes. Therefore, there is no distance requirement for the large classes either. They can't go to school at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506145006	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506145007	So this isn't about the pressure of infection? So, in Fyens Stiftstidende, the minister is asked why schools should not under any circumstances bring together older pupils. And the minister says: "It's because of the total pressure of infection in Denmark. There is no room for special conditions to open up to the largest pupils in the first round of re-opening (...) So teachers must not organise the teaching of the oldest pupils. Not even outside the school's cadastre in smaller groups. ▪ But where is the pressure of infection in it? Well, the minister says it's forbidden. But there is no reason why it is prohibited. The minister uses it in relation to Fyens Stiftstidende to say that there is a greater pressure of infection. That is what I am asking in the question, and I do not think I am getting an answer. Is there a greater pressure of infection? Where is the pressure of infection if 3-4 people walk out in the wild at a great distance? Is there any pressure there?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506145104	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506145105	I'm not a neurologist or whatever it's called when you're dealing with the virus. And that means that what I am dealing with is that there has been an opportunity to open up a number of classes. We made a political decision where in the mathematical model instead of the 9th and 10th classes it became the 4th and 5th classes that could be opened up. And when you opened from 0th to 5th grade, according to it there was no room for further opening of the school. That is, all of this is about the pressure of infection. I don't think I've ever come across a politician who thinks it's a good idea to close the school, and of course I don't. That means that what we have here is about one thing, and that is the pressure of infection. And therefore what is referred to in Fyens Stiftstidende is also very precise; that is why the big pupils cannot go to school, even when it is outside the matrix.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506145158	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506145158-2	When the Minister is still away in Fyens Stiftstidende, who has conducted an excellently small interview, he is asked how it can increase the risk of infection if pupils who are allowed to meet at 2 p.m. I don't want you to meet me at 4:00. 12, then it is because if we put the teacher to organize it, there will be more young people seeing each other, and thus there will be a greater risk of the infection spreading faster than we can stand. Does it spread the infection faster if some teachers organize what is going on and set up a framework for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506145226	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506145228	Yes, that is also in the whole premise of the question. The reason why you want to is because the students miss each other and benefit from a community, and if the teachers start organizing it, more of them will no longer miss each other and will actually have a community because they are together in smaller groups out in the wild. And that is what has been assessed cannot be done, i.e. to open up to the large classes, even in a small version. We all have a desire to turn the virus down to a level where it can be done preferably to open up completely again, but otherwise open up partially again, but in the first stage there was no room for it. So yes, it is precisely about the pressure of infection and the fact that a community is being organized, and that is what has not been possible in the first phase if we were to open from 0 to 5th grade.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506145312	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506145313	But the core of this is for me to see about the pressure of infection. The minister also says that it is a matter of pressure of infection, and then it will probably also be relevant to relate to where the pressure of infection is highest. Is it if a teacher organises some activities where you have the framework in which you have control of how you act in relation to each other? Or does the pressure of infection increase where young people go out spontaneously and without control and act for themselves? Where is the greatest pressure of infection?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506145339	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506145340	It is in the nature of things where the teachers organize it, because the moment you put an adult to organize it, especially an adult who is paid to do it, there will be more who do it, and that is also what the whole intention is. When the questioner wants the teacher to do so, it is to make sure that the children in the Danish primary school get the experience of being with each other outdoors in the small groups. Because if the teacher doesn't organize it, if we don't put someone who gets paid for it and is an adult, to organize it, there will be fewer who do it, with the result that the pressure of infection will be less because there are fewer people meeting with each other. That's the whole point of it. The teachers are incredibly good at organizing, so of course I am confident that if we asked the teachers to do so, they would also do so much more effectively than when it is just random and something that the young people themselves have to do. That is why we usually have the faculty to carry out the teaching and to organise it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506145425	Thank you. That's the end of the question. S 1037, and that is also for the Minister for Children and Education, and that is also what Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506145436	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506145444	Thank you. How will the Minister explain to the major pupils in the 6-10th grade that they must not meet when they see that their younger siblings are in school and institution and that their parents are back to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506145448	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506145450	I have had to do this quite specifically, because I have someone at home who goes to 5, and then I have someone who goes to 6, and they think it's the biggest rivet they've drawn, that their mother is Minister of Education and so hasn't made sure they're both in school. They think I should be closest to that, so I've had to explain myself why one side of the fence shouldn't go to school and the other. One can say that it is about explaining the children about corona, and most children know it, because now they have been living with it, like all of us, for a few months. In other words, they understand the concept of infection chains and understand that there must not be too many of them, because then it will be dangerous. So, in reality, I think we have a pretty good starting point, including educational ones, to explain that we can only open in part. They have also, as I see it, been extremely good to understand that there is a new framework for how we are together. I have such a sweet little story: When I got into a crèche, the first day that was opened up, there was a child of a 2-3 year old who cried out to some of the other children in the small group they were: Shall we play coronalavamonster? It's just to say that even the smallest have inside the retina, what is going on, and then, of course, there's a difference depending on age, how much of what they understand. But the big children in the primary school understand that this is a global pandemic and that therefore there is only room for a certain number of infection chains and that therefore, in the first phase of the reopening, we had to start slowly. It doesn't mean that being young right now isn't insanely hard. I think it is for all those who are at home, whether you belong to one or the other community group. We have always been open to those who are socially at risk. Not everyone understands that. So I'm just saying that out loud again: those who are socially at risk are allowed to attend school across all the years. But even for those who are not socially at risk, this is incredibly tough conditions compared to being young and not something that is very funny. But when it comes to explaining it to them so that they understand what it is like that is the idea that we try to protect ourselves from a global pandemic and prevent health care from crashing under the pressure of infection, it is really my impression that most major students have understood it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506145653	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506145654	Well, I kind of agree that we Danes are generally very law-abiding. And I'm thinking that both children and adults have handled this well and made an extraordinary effort. We have also had a very simple explanation at the beginning. There was something contagious about those corona monsters that everyone could see, and there had to be a chain of infection. That's understandable. We wash our hands, we drink off, we keep our distance. Then we start to open up, and then we start to come up with those stories where Zoo can actually open up on the guidelines, but gets no. IKEA is about to open up, but no, they can't. Then they'll have to. The big kids at school do something that in their eyes looks quite reasonable because it is organised by a teacher. You have the framework you need. I would venture to claim that there really is no risk of infection when otherwise the teacher organises it properly and organises it properly as an alternative to just going out and doing it. We raise our kids in school to follow the rules, yes. But we also train them to be independent, not blindly trusted in authority. They need to understand what they're doing, and they need to understand why they're doing it. That is actually why I would like to have this discussion. How do you explain something with a high risk of infection if it is objectively not there? Why do we tell the teacher who wants to go out with 2-3 students in a forest where I am quite sure that you will be able to prove that there is no risk of infection if it is organized properly that it is worse than the same young people right now sitting all day at home, becoming more and more desperate, need that social contact, as the Minister also mentions, and want it in some way? My concern is that if we do not provide a framework that is controlled and where we can control the level of infection, we will have an uncontrolled, uncontrollable activity where young people just go out and do whatever they want. Isn't that a greater risk?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506145854	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506145855	Now, in fact, I think we can have much more confidence in young people, and I think the latest reports from the health authorities show that. For uncontrolledness has not been there at a level where it has had an impact on the spread of infection at least. For the spread of infection is incredibly low, and that is what has been the whole intention: it was to open up so slowly that we did not risk an explosion in the infection. Of course, there will be more shades on it. It's always easier to tell people that everything is closed. It's easier to understand than if all sorts of nuances come on. But what this is all about is an overall pressure of infection, and there is really my perception of youth, although they are suffering from it here, there is no doubt that they have shown a very, very widespread degree of responsibility. In fact, I think we should be proud of that on behalf of young people. You understand that this is serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506145948	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506145950	But I'm just asking you to explain to the children in Odense who were out with their teacher why it should be forbidden. They don't understand, because it doesn't make sense in terms of taking care of an infection risk. It does not for them, it does not for teachers, it does not for those who organise it. I understand, then, that the Minister says that the instructions that have come from above say that we must not because the schools are closed and they must not come out there. I guess that's just the reason. There's no reason for increasing the risk of infection by doing it this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506150022	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506150023	Yeah, well, no one's closed the schools for fun. So when it's such that it's not open for teachers to organize teaching, whether it's on the matrimony or in large or small groups, or with or without distance... when it's closed to the whole thing... it's because we're in a global pandemic. I have never heard a politician say: hey, I have the suggestion that we just shut down the education sector and let all the young people sit at home and get bored, because we think this is a better idea than that they are in school. So when it is not open to the oldest pupils in the first stage of corona, it is simply because it is estimated that the risk of the infection becoming too large is present, and therefore there is really good reason why teachers should not, when the school is closed, run school anyway. That's because there's too many relationships. It is my impression that young people actually understand this and that they have therefore behaved so incredibly well and disciplined. And I think we should thank them for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506150116	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506150117	You behave incredibly well and disciplined, I completely agree with that. And you do that because a long way along the way you still understand the context and can see the context, you can see the logic of what you need to do. The problem just comes when you actually say to these kids: It's better that you run out ten men together and play with each other or do something with each other than that you go out with your teacher and get an activity that is actually controlled and planned. That's what they say.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506150147	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506150149	Yes, and what lies in the question when the questioner is very concerned that the teachers should be allowed to organize it for the young people is that the questioner just as well as I know that if we put the teachers to it, there will be significantly more children and young people who will be seeing each other. That's why we want to get them out and get them doing some of what they do normally when they're in school. And that's exactly what there's no room for. So we wish there was. I think we share that and it would be incredibly nice if it were the case that the coronasmit was so low that it could be done. That is what is being negotiated in these hours. But I do not think that the opening up of any activity at a time when it has been recommended that it is closed to them is appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506150224	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. We shall now proceed to the next question, Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). S 1042, submitted by Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen to the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506150237	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506150238	Thank you. What is the Minister's position on the new research report •Emergency training during the Corona crisis • carried out by the DPU and SDU, which shows that the prosperity is further down, as the young people have been deprived of the opportunity to see their classmates for several weeks?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506150257	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506150258	Well, well, I'd say that if that report didn't show it, we would have simply wasted, I don't know how many billions a year to have the kids in school when there's no corona. In other words, it is rare to get that look into a society that is structural from the outside, as we are doing at the moment. And you could say that it's actually a pretty good idea for us to teach the kids. It's a pretty good idea, they're part of communities. It is actually quite nice that this is the case, otherwise all parties in the Danish Parliament over the last 200 years would have been able to go to school since 1814 when we introduced the compulsory education. So I would say that I had been shaken into my foundation if there had been a report that had shown that distance learning was much better for the children; that they all prospered better, that they gained more professional benefit from it, so that everything we have taught the teachers at the seminar was a waste of time. I would like to say, however, that I also have the experience that there are individual pupils... we get feedback about • who actually feel better about the tranquility of distance learning. So there are actually some individuals who get something positive out of it. But otherwise, by the way, we humans are flock animals and actually thrive best with each other. And that is why it is a huge problem for humanity when you are hit by a global pandemic and thus cannot be part of the communities we usually do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506150412	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506150413	Thank you and thank you to the Minister for your reply. In relation to the last pupils mentioned by the Minister, I think perhaps it is pupils who should somewhere be in some special offer or in something with shielding and support at least. For the vast majority of students thrive on being with their classmates. And let us return to them, and they are also my question about the children and young people we have who are in massive disarray. After all, the Minister and I have had this debate in the past with some good discussions, and we have also agreed on many things. I think the Minister has been good at making some concrete proposals, and that is also something we are working on, and there will also be more consultation on this. Precisely because during these consultations the Minister has been willing to look out of the box, one can call it, or turn every stone in this case to find some solutions, then one can ask whether the Minister has not quite honestly thought out of the box. When we have this pandemic, when we're at risk of getting a build-up and a hunch of cases lying on these kids, that will make it completely incomprehensible that we can even sit and talk about it in consultation and when we're in this special situation looking at these young people, what do we do now?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506150526	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506150526-2	It almost gives itself, and I would say that in relation to those who are in massive dissatisfaction and those who have cases, it is so and it is incredibly important for me to be allowed to repeat and repeat that the education sector is not closed. I have had as late as today two fifths of the mayors and the rest I have over the next 24 hours to meet about exactly the group that is in massive disarray. Because, according to my impression, there are still too few people in school. Well, there's a lot more that actually fall under the section 2 of the emergency closure notice that's been there from the very beginning of this. And that means that what I am doing as a minister is trying to push and push for that group to actually go back to school. Because they are not closed at all, and there are too few who have discovered that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506150612	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506150613	Thank you, and the very thing about pushing is alpha and mega, and that is what you try out locally, and that is also what you try as a city council politician. And then I would like the Minister to take a further look at it and to come up with something more besides pushing on it. Because I think we really need to get on our feet to say locally that there are some kids going to school. There is a parent who expresses it in relation to the study to which my question refers: there is nothing good about the current situation. Our child is very depressed by the lack of everyday life with school and comrades and is very frustrated by the way schoolwork is to be conducted. He feels lost and has difficulty getting the help he needs, etc. Because it's very apt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506150652	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506150653	Well, I actually think we're gonna have to pile the students up a little bit compared to what kind of tools they're gonna use. There's one the 1-2 percent. in our society, which is most at risk, and it is really my impression that the municipalities have put extreme effort into getting hold of them, because they already know them. These are children who, in some way, are already inside the municipality. Then there are the next 2-10 per cent, if we take that group, and it is my impression that there is a very large variation in how much municipalities have got hold of them. I am extremely concerned about that. And then there is the large group, and there you must correct me if I am wrong, to which the student belongs, and which simply thinks it is terrible to be at home and would like to return and get very good benefit from the teachers teaching normally. And that is all it has to say, and that is also true of my own son, who is at home, that that is what the conditions are during a global pandemic. And we'd rather it was different.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506150747	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506150747-2	Yes, I understand that these are the terms. But one thing is that we have a global pandemic, but we can also risk having global problems with distrust, at least in those countries that have shut down to this extent. And it is a great challenge that, under the government's current conditions, it is not possible to prioritise the well-being of the oldest pupils as it is at present. The Minister may wrinkle his forehead now, but I do not think that is an option when the children are just forced to stay home. And I see it as problematic when several municipalities actually come up with some alternative solutions to deal with some of these children, who are at potential risk of getting into disarray. What is the Minister's answer to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506150827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506150828	It is that the school is not closed to those who are in disarray. So somewhere I have to say it incredibly square, because it is obviously not being heard by all those who have the responsibility out there, so it is not as much to the rapporteur as it is to those who might be listening and who have authority over the children we are talking about. The school isn't closed to those who are in disarray. And again: We must distinguish between those who are in disarray understood in the way that they bore themselves because they are at home and miss their friends. It's one group, and for them, the school's closed. But for those who are in disarray, in the true sense of the word, the school is not closed. And that means they have to go back to school and have a normal everyday life. And they are allowed to do so, even in the large classes, with physical presence and a teacher in front of them who sits and teaches.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506150912	Thank you. The question is closed. We move on to the next question, which has also been asked by Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen to the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506150918	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506150919	Thank you. How can the Minister be opposed to teachers meeting outdoors with small groups of their large school pupils who have been isolated for a very long time when, according to health recommendations, these students are allowed to meet without a teacher?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506150935	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506150936	Well, I'm definitely not. So, if I had to make a political decision about what would happen to the big students in Denmark, then I am a great supporter of the compulsory education which has been in Denmark since 1814 and that is because I think that children and young people are very well off being part of a community and, by the way, a learning community. And in relation to the charge that lies in this question, that I should be against someone meeting with each other: No, I am not. I mean, I even belong to a party that is in favour of community and sees human beings as flock animals in its fundamental ideology and as the basis for the way in which we have linked society. There is nothing more I want, especially in this time, than to be able to be with each other again and again to hear young voices defiling past on the streets and straits, and of course especially to the extent that even organized learning takes place. This is one of the things I appreciate most, and it is one of the things that I, as a young man, enjoyed most. So I think it's quite awful what's happening to young people now. So I simply do not accept that charge as a premise for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506151050	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506151051	Children and young people meet and are together, which we have heard a lot about in the media. The majority of them are, after all, completely together in the way recommended by the health authorities. There are some who have been in the media where it has fallen out differently. If they are still hanging out, and on the basis of what the Minister says, which I fully agree with, could the Minister not rest when the next opening comes in a few days, and talk to the Prime Minister, who is part of the government with the Minister, and pressure the Prime Minister to open up this part? If we have just the opportunity to comply with the health recommendations and let some of the oldest students in, then it is a possibility that is worth taking to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506151144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506151144-2	Thank you so much for your inspiration. On the other hand, I could say the same thing: whether the rapporteur does not take it to his chair. It is not customary for us to stand down here and discuss negotiations that are taking place, almost as we speak, and I have simply not heard of one politician who thinks it is a good idea that we have shut down our society for as much as a second more than is needed. I have also heard that the first of the principles that the Left has announced is that things must be based on health care, and that is, in fact, the whole idea of the elders not being back in school right now. So I think that perhaps it would also suit the Left when discussing this, to say that in phase one there was not the health care that allowed one to open up. So all this shit about putting our hands on it, that is to say, what we, as a government, are trying to do is to prevent the health system from collapsed under a pressure of infection.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506151234	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506151235	I think all parties agree with the Minister that this is the case. The reason why I am saying this is precisely that in the near future we have overstepped the deadline for questions next week, so if it does not happen, that is what the majority outside the government wants to do, then I risk my questions being shot 14 days out in time, and I will be sorry about that. In relation to local solutions: there have been a lot of good bids, and some small schools, which only have up to 6th grade, say that it is actually a disadvantage for them that they have to send only one year home and do some distance learning for them and then have the rest of the students at the school. Has the Minister not considered what an opportunity could be here if and if we can open up more?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506151314	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506151315	That by a majority outside the government I heard well on TV 2 News yesterday. That's bullshit. I have never heard a politician, either from the opposition or from the governing party, think it was a good idea that school was closed. So how do journalists actually get there that they think there are some who think that something should be closed? I have not heard the Left say that it does not matter what the State Serum Institute and the health authorities say and that they just want the elders back on the contrary. I have heard the Left say that health care was important. Okay, then the Left doesn't mean anything other than everybody else does. And that by a majority outside the government simply does not fit.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506151355	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506151356	If it turns out in a few days' time that the latest figures from the Serum Institute show that the oldest students can easily get back to school, is that something the minister is planning to be a real opportunity from next week?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506151407	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506151410	I actually think I said this just now: while we are standing in this Chamber, there are some people above our pay limits sitting and negotiating. In other words, it is incredibly bad style to ask those questions while the negotiations are going on because it means that you cannot negotiate seriously. In other words, I would find it incredibly irresponsible to start answering that question. And then I just want to say that I also believe that there are other considerations. It may be that one who asks can just stand and say one thing and the other. I do not hear the President of the Left doing that. I hear that there are others who care about, for example. the elderly in Denmark who sit demented in nursing homes. It is then just some kind of appeal that, even if you are no longer in government, you have a look at the fact that there are in fact other people in Denmark than those who are just in your rapporteur's area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506151447	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you to Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen. The next question is Mrs Krarup, who also has to ask questions to the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506151459	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506151459-2	Thank you. Does the Minister not agree that, in the light of the positive experience of common morning songs on television in the coronatide, it should be inspired to make morning song compulsory in all schools and colleges?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506151511	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506151512	No, in fact, I would say that this coronatid has inspired me to do exactly the opposite, so when we get on the other side of the coronatide, the questioner can look forward to discussing in the public school circle that some of the bindings we have made are going to loosen again. Because I think that some of what has been incredibly liberating in coronate has been seeing how much commitment you release and how well things succeed when you do not control everything centrally from. So if the questioner had instead asked me if I thought it was a good idea to have a morning song, and if I would introduce it myself if I was a teacher at a school, or if I would ask if I were a member of a student council, then I would say that I would certainly, but not make it compulsory. One of the first conclusions for me about this coronatid is: How amazing it has been to see committed teachers and committed school leaders just take away and make decisions and do the right thing for our children and young people in an incredibly difficult time. And that does not make me conclude that we just need to centralise even more and make even more mandatory and create even more rigid guidelines, on the contrary. So no thanks to more mandatory, and yes, to look up the doors to a new time when there is more listening to those who are out there in the schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506151622	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506151624	Thank you. Nothing is so wrong that it's not good for anything. Corona is really, really wrong, but Corona has also opened up some good things, this very thing about people singing together, and that you really feel a community and a comfort in singing together. And it's revived interest in our cultural treasure. So, the Højskole songbook is going like hot bread at the moment in the Internet bookstores, and that's great. But think of those who may be outside and do not know the songs that are now gathering people. It's a bit of a sin, and that's why I think it's a good idea if you make sure kids get to know those songs. I know you already have songs at school, and that's really, really good, but I think it might be an idea to spread it even more. I don't know if there's an inventory of how many schools have a morning song. Fortunately, I myself have always attended schools where there was a morning song, but I know that there are also schools that do not. And in this respect, I think we should ask those schools to introduce it, because it gives something extra, it gives some cohesion. And it also provides an integration of the strangers who can be admitted into the community by learning the songs that the community that is already there already knows about the older generation, at least, and where the younger ones are going. And sometimes it is also the elderly who have to learn some songs that have become popular among the young. So that uniting factor that's in the song, I think you should get out all the places you can. So I would like to ask: would it not be a good idea as a first step here after corona to investigate how many people are actually willing to use the morning song in their daily lives in schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506151826	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506151828	Well, the government isn't in favour of singing forced to say it out loud. I have heard what the questioner thinks, but I do not agree. I do not think that we should make more compulsory. Now I've also been watching the part where you have to make rubber faces and stuff in the morning, when there are those shared morning songs on Danmarks Radio. And then when I had to answer this question and sat and prepared myself the other day, I thought: "It must be a little too bad for the Danish People's Party anyway: Well, it wasn't Morten Messerschmidt who was out saying that now we should just shut down DR? Because in relation to such a common cultural heritage, for example. The spread of morning songs must be said to have played a relatively important role. At least they're the ones who've made us all do rubber faces and resurrect the Højskole songbook. And I wonder if it's also those who have done that the Højskole songbook is now on the bestseller list.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506151914	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506151915	Now it is not about the survival of the DR, which the Danish People's Party naturally supports, because it is precisely a culturally-sustaining and culturally-producing institution which must be it is extremely important for Danish languages. But what it is all about is involving as many people as possible in that cultural community. And if there are some schools that haven't really gotten their act together, it would be very good if they got a call. So why not start by doing a survey after the corona crisis here and ask: How many of you actually have morning songs?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506151948	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506151949	Well, then, the rapporteur is free to have these things orchestrated. I just want to say that I think it is quite wrong if the first conclusion drawn by the Danish People's Party on this corona crisis is that we are about to make more mandatory, we need to make more rigid rules, we need to get more people doing all sorts of studies. I think it has been a liberation, I would like to say that there is not that carpet bombing with things constantly and constantly. I have seen a sector that has so taken away and so much responsibility. Should we then come and shove them down their throats, how they are going to do things, even more so than we have done so far? That is simply not where the government stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506152030	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506152032	I think that is a pity for those pupils who go to schools where there is no morning song, and I think that they owe it to them to give them the opportunity to participate in the song community which can be created and which is created in a large number of schools with success. So I think it would be a very good idea to encourage those schools that do not have it to get started and perhaps give them a little push and perhaps also a little help to where they can rent a grand piano or whatever it is you might need to be able to carry out these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506152105	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506152106	Yes, but what has happened to primary school is that over the years every other moment something has arisen that some politician thought was extremely important for everyone to learn. With the result that we are now running, completely nitty-gritty, what is going on in primary school. I do not think it suits the political level. We ourselves have contributed to this and the Danish People's Party has also done so that we loosened some of the tapes on the mandatory targets so that they were no longer mandatory. I think we should go much further along that path, and that is why I think it is a step in the quite wrong direction to start making new things compulsory. It is not because I do not think that both Danish and mathematics and songs and everything else are important. It's just a question of how much we quite honestly have to sit and steer down the detail from in here. And that is certainly not the next step the government is going to take; we are going to make more compulsory.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506152149	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. We move on to the next question, which will also ask questions to the Minister for Children and Education, and that is Mr. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506152157	Please read your question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506152206	When the Minister of Politiken stated on 29 April 2020 that there is no room to open up the largest pupils in the first round of re-opening either, what is the Minister's comment that the example from Odense shows that there is room in particular for at least some of the major pupils?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506152230	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506152232	It's that the school is closed to the oldest classes. No matter how much we don't like it, that's how it is, because of the pandemic. And that means that whether the teaching takes place in the usual rooms or in other places or with distance or outdoors or in smaller groups, the school is closed to the larger pupils. I don't think anyone has ever wanted that to happen. It's happened because of a pandemic. So I have never dealt with suggestions in the Folketing that someone had an offensive desire to close the school to the oldest classes. This has not been the case here either, which means that in the first phase of reopening we stressed that it was the smallest classes that got the least out of distance learning that got started first. And that means that the school is closed to the largest classes. It is incredibly sad, and I think it is super hard for the young people out there that they cannot go to school; but that is what has had to do to keep the number of chains of infection down to a level that makes the health care system not burst together. So simply that we have not opened the whole school at once, but for individual classes at a time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506152339	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506152340	Thank you. The minister has answered something similar to this question sometimes, and it's kind of the same speech: it's the pressure of infection, it's the first phase, it's the understanding that it's really hard and that nobody wants to do this. And perhaps it is also very wise to stick to that line, for what slide could it be if you were more flexible in opening up, and where would it end up? So maybe it's based on the idea that if not everyone can, then no one should be able to. And it is actually really, really difficult for schools, for managers, for teachers and students and parents to understand that you can open IKEA and Bilka and hairdressers and masseurs and, as such, also some outdoor sports when the good example from Odense is then condemned. It has been difficult to understand for the radical alderman, and it is also difficult for me to understand. That is why the question is also to the Minister: why is the Minister not confident that schools and teachers are able to deal with small groups of large children in such a way as to be able to understand the recommendations now being made in relation to distance and wash their hands and sprites off?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506152455	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506152456	I certainly have. And that means that if those were the guidelines, then I am absolutely convinced that they would respect them. I therefore believe that both young people and teachers have shown enormous responsibility, so I am quite convinced that if at some point it were to be the case that schools had to open up on the terms that they had to meet in small groups and that it had to be outdoors and at a distance, then I am absolutely convinced that they would respect it. That is just not the case now. During the first reopening phase, it has not been allowed. I believe that we all hope and wish that there will soon be more community, but that is not an expression of distrust. It is simply a question of the fact that it has not been opened up because the pressure of infection had to be kept to a level and the first phase of reopening did not mean that it could be partially opened up to the oldest classes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506152545	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506152547	I understand that children who are miserable or vulnerable children have a place in primary school's emergency education. Could it not be said that now that we are eight weeks old, all pupils are actually at risk and that all children are disillusioned with not being in school and seeing their comrades and with regard to the professional, the social; what is going on in primary school? So if a teacher, a leader, thinks that there is a class in which there are special circumstances in relation to their mistrust, then the minister calls and says that it should not be, if the leader or the teacher does so under the umbrella that they are miserable?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506152624	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506152626	We need to be extremely precise here, right? Because if a teacher estimates that in this class there are 17 students who are miserable, then the teacher can take the 17 students back. But you can't collectively judge whether the class is miserable. And it is, of course, a question of being sharp on what is in the word distrust. I think that all pupils find it awful to be at home and would rather be in school, except a few. But that's not enough to get back to school. And that means that we just need to be sharp. And we should bear in mind that it is not, of course, because some of us want to keep someone at home who would think it was nicer to be in school and, by the way, would also learn more from it. It is because of the fact that we must avoid too many chains of infection in Denmark. In other words, there is a distinction to be made between those who are bored and who are therefore miserable and those who are miserable. And if there's a problem, you have to get back to school. And that is already in the current rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506152718	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506152718-2	Thank you. So it is the head of the school and the teacher who estimates that here is then a class of 17, which the minister also mentions, who is distrustful to a degree, so that there is a need to take them into some rooms where they can sit 8 in one and 9 in the other, so that there are not 17 pupils gathered at once. Is it the teacher and head of the school who evaluates it, or does the minister call and say that you can't?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506152744	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506152745	In fact, what was important here was that it was 17 of the students in the class. It is not a collective view, it is an assessment of the individual child. And yes, it is actually the head of the school who, according to the announcement, makes that decision. And that means that it can be 17 out of 24 students who are miserable at a level where you think it's worse for them to be at home, and yes, you have to take them back. I have held meetings with the mayors about what I also mentioned earlier in the Chamber today, precisely to say to them that, in the best of my knowledge, there are far too few pupils who are in school because there are far more than those who are in school now who fall within the category of openness that is actually at school. And that means, let's get out of the ice. Then I have also promised them that I will shout out loud if they start using it quite abundantly. But there is still a long way to go. This does not mean that they must be taken back collectively, and that is what is essential: it is an individual assessment of the pupils. And there are some areas of Denmark Yes please!) there are so socially burdened, and schools there are, and classes there are, that there will be quite a lot...
ParlaMint-DK_20200506152843	The question is closed and so is the Minister's answer. Thank you to the Minister for Children and Education, and thank you to Mr. Stén Knuth. We move on to the next question, which is Question No. S 1030 to the Minister for Industry, by Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506152905	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506152907	Thank you. What is the Minister's view when, on the basis of IKEA's legal opening, the Minister states that this is viewed with great seriousness and that the Government will follow up on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506152920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506152921	Thank you for the question. First of all, I would like to say that the announcement in relation to IKEA was based on the fact that, as a society, we are in an extraordinary situation. As the questioner is aware, the government has initiated a gradual and controlled reopening of Danish society and business. Several large store houses, including IKEA, have respectedfully kept closed at their own discretion because of the coronasmite, but would now like to open again. But this reopening and, for that matter, the reopening of other shops that have kept closed should, of course, be done in a responsible manner. The government therefore called for a delay in opening up so that we could ensure a gradual re-opening of society. You have to think very carefully when you gather a large number of people in, for example. large stores or shops when the health authorities generally recommend that we avoid gathering too many. To avoid uncontrolled opening, therefore, the government followed up by holding a meeting with IKEA last week. We had a good and constructive dialogue about the potential challenges, a big store that IKEA faces. Subsequently, agreement was reached between the business community, the trade union movement and relevant authorities on a set of guidelines to ensure that it was properly reopened. Against this background, the government launched on Thursday these new guidelines for stores and large stores, so that we avoid several thousand people gathering in one store, and so that the large stores limit queues and ensure that customers can pass each other at a distance of two metres etc. The square meter requirements for the large shops are tougher than the small shops, because there is a greater risk of spreading the infection, the more people gather in one place. My wish is that we can open up more and more companies that have kept closed because of corona. It must, of course, be done in a controlled and sound manner and in accordance with the recommendations of the health authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153116	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153117	Thank you for your answer. I don't know if I got smarter, though. All this has happened last week, and it has been such a very messy process, I think I can say where there have been statements from many different places and there has been an outburst and the Minister has said that the Minister was sorry about the process. It has gone a little wrong, if I may say so. That is why I just thought that this would be a good opportunity for the Minister to say what the Minister really meant. From what I can hear now, maybe it was just: Fine, IKEA opens, we'll make some guidelines. Is that what the Minister meant? For me, it might sound a little more like seeing something expressed with serious eyes, that is, a little like a threat, or that it would have consequences, that something should happen. Then it was just: Hey, we're making some guidelines. Okay, you guys get it. Of course you can, so we'll make some guidelines. Is that what the Minister meant?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153223	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153225	It is true that after the announcement there was a process in which I think everyone has followed, and one can characterise that as one wishes. I have chosen to regret for my part, because I have no desire, as someone else has tried to say, to have to slash businesses. My only wish as Minister of Business has been that we can constantly open up more and more shops, and this presupposes that it is done in a sound and good way. And that is why I am very pleased that we have now put in place the guidelines that are needed, so that IKEA and other large com mittee stores can also keep safe open.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153303	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153303-2	Okay, that's because when my dad looked at me and said he was looking at something with serious eyes, you got a little scared when you were smaller. I do not know whether the Minister has had the same kind of father, but should I then understand that the companies that are now legally allowed to remain open, but are in doubt because of what happened last week, can just open and then the Minister makes some good guidelines? I mean, for those who are legally allowed to stay open today?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153330	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153331	We continuously have a very good working relationship with industry and the trade union movement and the relevant authorities to ensure that there are good guidelines on which to rely. And in the concrete course here we have also had updated guidelines for the large selection stores so that they can stay open. Then we are constantly looking at who the next ones are that can be included in a reopening of Denmark, which is discussed between the parties, so that we can have guidelines clear very much before there is an opportunity to open up the coming things. And we have a very good dialogue on this, including on other tracks than exactly the committee stores.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153407	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153408	So just to get it quite precisely: does that mean that all the companies that we have today are legally allowed to keep open, but do not do so because they did not feel that it was appropriate because of everything that has happened now, must open up and that they should not be in any doubt about it if they are allowed to do so legally today? And that the minister will then subsequently help them with some guidelines, and then everything is okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153428	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153430	In general, I think it is important that we have a sound and coordinated reopening of Denmark. That is also what our parties are negotiating at party leader level these days, and of course you have to take stock of it always makes sense to do so. However, for selection stores, some good guidelines have now been drawn up together with the industry and trade union movement and the relevant authorities. And that means that committee stores, which are allowed to keep open, now have some good guidelines. So, yes, they can stay open.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153454	Thank you. Thank you to Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard. The next question is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic It is asked by Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, and the questioner is Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153513	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153515	Thank you. What is the Minister's position on the proposal to open tourist corridors between EU Member States, which was discussed at the meeting of the Tourism Council - and not at the European Council?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153530	Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153532	Thank you for the question. The abolition of restrictions on entry is an issue of concern to many Member States, and I note that some EU countries are considering opening up corridors so that tourists from selected countries can return on holiday. I understand that, of course, because tourism is of great importance to many EU countries. This is also true in Denmark, and it is clear that entry restrictions hit the tourism industry hard, especially when the peak season is at its door. It is not the Government's wish that we should keep the borders closed for longer than is necessary. However, we have to wait until we can see the results of the openings of society that have already taken place before we report further reopening. The answer to when we can lift the entry restrictions is about how we can manage the spread of infection so that we do not jeopardise the good results that the Danes have achieved in recent times. Therefore, it is absolutely crucial that the reopening of Denmark is done gradually and in a controlled way. The government is following the situation closely, and it is clear that the issue of gradually opening up to entry restrictions is an ongoing consideration, but we need to take a cautious approach. Together with the Danish Parliament's parties, we are discussing the plan for the reopening of Denmark. In this context, a position will be taken as to where priority should be given to opening up in the next phase, including: in the light of what is sound in terms of health.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153652	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153653	Thank you very much for your answer. I would like to ask whether such a tourist corridor is an opportunity which is part of the discussions that the government has with the parties of the Danish Parliament, in other words whether the Minister sees it as a way to accommodate the tourist industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153717	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153717-2	I would like to start by saying that no one wants to keep something closed for longer than necessary, nor when the summer months are approaching and the foreign guests want to go on summer holidays in Denmark. I understand very well that foreign guests, not least German citizens, would like clarity about how they are compared to spending summer holidays in Denmark. It will also help our needy tourism industry as well as the many Danish holiday home owners who have rented their summer homes to foreign guests and are potentially facing a loss of their rental income. The question of when the Danish-German border can open is how we deal with this infection. We have to wait until we can see the results of the opening-up of society that has already taken place before we can announce further initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153759	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153759-2	I thank you very much for your answer, but that is not what I asked. I asked about the Minister's position on tourist corridors, as proposed at the Council meeting, in which I assume the Minister took part, and in which he must have expressed a Danish position in some way. That is why I am calling for the Minister's answer as to whether such an opportunity is part of the discussions that the government is having with the parties in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153828	What is being discussed with the party leaders also the leader of the questioner's own party is, of course, how we can continue the re-opening of Denmark, how we can open up new professions and prepare for more and more people to get the wheels going again. This is important for Danish business. But it is really important that it takes place on the basis of the results that come out of the first phase of reopening, and that is the experience we need before we both both the parties, but also the government itself decide whether to open up further and which parts should come first.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153904	Thank you, and then it is co-questioning Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen to ask a question: 1 minute, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153910	Thank you. I should like to ask the Minister whether opening the border is part of the government's plans for reopening, in other words, what is being discussed now. I am asking because I assume that the Minister is also aware that the pressure of infection is actually lower in Germany than it is in Denmark. That is why we ask what the difference is, whether it is Germans or Danes who travel around Denmark. In concrete terms, does border opening take place in the current discussions in the government about reopening?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153943	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506153943-2	After all, the government is constantly considering what the right next initiatives are. In addition, we are taking the political debate between the parties: are the centres for the next time? Are these the oldest classes in school? Are those the restaurants? Who is it? If we make a sound reopening of Denmark, it is good for Danish business and can also be good for our tourism industry, which is having a hard time. I think we share that experience. But if we are going to put it at risk because we are taking too many things into the next phase, we are going to be knocked back and then it is a bet for our business community. However, I can confirm that the government is, of course, constantly considering when the time is right to look at the border issue as well. However, it must be based on the experience of the first stages of reopening whether there is any possibility of changing border restrictions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506154037	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506154039	But we are asking the Minister as Minister of Tourism today what the difference is, whether a German family or a Danish family is in the summer house on the West Coast. When the minister talks about shopping centres, there will probably not be a change of circumstances, because it is a person from Schleswig-Holstein or someone from Copenhagen or Aarhus who is in the mall. Everyone has to abide by the rules that exist. That is what Mrs Ulla Tørnæs's question is all about. This is the possibility for tourist corridors and the possibility for German families to take holidays in Denmark. So I am surprised that the Minister will not answer the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506154116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506154117	Well, I'd like to answer what I'm able to answer. And that is, of course, that we, as a government, are following this situation closely. It is clear that the question of gradually opening up to entry restrictions is also an ongoing consideration for a government. I'm just saying that we need to come forward cautiously here to ensure that the reopening we make of the Danish society... whether it's borders or shopping centres or it's restaurants... is sound and controlled so that we don't experience being turned back. Because it would be a bet for Danish business.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506154151	Then the final question from Mrs Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506154153	Well, I note that the government is not in favour of looking at the possibility of creating tourist corridors, so that German tourists can go on holiday in Denmark, and so that the summer houses they have booked and rented can also be of benefit and joy to them. I note that this is not part of the discussions that the government will have later today with the parties of the Danish Parliament at least if you listen carefully to what the Minister has now replied two, three, four times: then it is not an option, as the Minister answers us here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506154237	Thank you. Then there's the last answer from the Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506154239	I think I have answered very precisely how we are following this situation and also have the relationship of entry restrictions up to regular consideration. I just want to assure you that I very much share the concern about our tourism industry. We will have a focused discussion of our experience economy, tourism, within the business group. We have made aid packages for nearly 400 billion. kr. in order to keep our hands on our business, including, of course, our tourism industry. So the intention I think we share. I also hope that we share the intention to proceed cautiously and gradually in the reopening of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506154318	Thank you to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. The next question is also to the Minister for Business, and it is asked by Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506154325	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506154326	Thank you, Madam President. Will the Minister today give both holiday house owners and tenants from our neighbouring countries a clear message as to how they are done after 10 May 2020 and the rest of the season?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506154341	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506154343	Thank you for the question. Holiday rentals for foreign guests play a major role for Danish tourism, not least in many coastal municipalities. Many holiday home owners have rented their holiday homes to foreign guests in the coming period, and it is very natural that the holiday home owners would like to know whether the foreign guests will be able to visit or whether it would be better to try to rent the summer house to Danish guests this summer. So I fully understand that both the holiday rentals and the foreign guests from our neighbouring countries would like to know how they are compared to the holiday rentals this year. It is a wish that holiday rentals and foreign guests share with many other companies and organizations, employees, indeed most Danes. I have a great deal of sympathy for the fact that the restrictions on entry include: the tourism industry is hitting very hard. And let me just stress once again that it is not the Government's wish that we should keep the borders closed for longer than necessary. As you know, we are discussing with the Danish Parliament's parties the plan for the reopening of Denmark, and in this context we will be deciding where it is to be a priority to open up in the next phase, among other things. in the light of what is sound in terms of health.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506154452	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506154454	Well, that's the answer we could get from the minister. And there was nothing surprising about the previous answers given to other colleagues in this Chamber. But that does not change the fact that at least here in the Danish People's Party it is important, in principle, that we, I had almost said, get out of the bush a little faster than the requirements and guidelines we want to offer not only the customers in these summerhouses, i.e. tourists, those who are going to have holidays, but also those who are renting out, and those who are in charge of it in terms of the industry. It's like 90 percent. of the bookings one has in Denmark, the more or less they are from foreigners, and this also means that even if we should get more Danes to take over some of the available houses, if there are no foreigners coming to Denmark as tourists, then there is a very serious risk that these summer houses will be very empty and that it will be a very large drain in economic terms. And then the question is all the more urgent, precisely because many of the foreign tenants of leisure homes long ago, some have already done so last year, have rented a holiday home in Denmark. And you actually have a contractual right to maintain their reservation until 30 days before they take over the summer house. And with the rules that then exist in relation to it, it makes some very important basic assumptions about what we have in terms of opportunities for these many people who, because of these rules of consumer law, are getting into a mess. The houses are locked, we can't know if the customers are allowed to come. If they don't get to come, nobody gets to rent the houses because they're locked up to 30 days before moving in. This is why, in this particular situation, we have a need in the Danish People's Party to signal to the government that it is now necessary to report on what should be done in relation to the rental of leisure homes in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506154700	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506154701	I think it is quite appropriate to send that signal, and I also take it down as an important signal, including business policy in this context. And I would like to send a similar signal back that, as a government, we do not want to keep anything closed, including the borders, for longer than is necessary. Fortunately, as one of the countries in the world that is doing well, we are in the process of reopening Denmark. And I just think that it is the experience of the reopening that will form the basis for future decisions, and I can then confirm to the rapporteur that we, as a government, are also constantly discussing the issue of restrictions on entry in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506154738	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506154739	I am also not saying that the government should make hasty considerations about whether or not foreigners can come to Denmark. What we just need is clarification, industrial clarification and a vacation rental clarification, precisely in order to accept that if health care is concerned, in relation to the fact that you cannot open up, then it must be the case that you have the opportunity to rent out the houses and that they are not bound and that you can then remove some of the constraints on many of these holiday homes, even in the weeks which today are the relatively expensive weeks we know that we are from week 26 up to weeks 31, 32, 33. These are the weeks when it is extra expensive to rent a holiday home in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506154823	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506154825	What is behind this question is a genuine concern for holiday rentals and the tourism industry in Denmark, and I really share it. And that is why we also make together the aid packages we do; it is to try to help here. I fully understand the desire for clarification, and I promise that if I could have given it more clearly, I would have done so today too, so it is not for not wanting to do so. But you just have to take the basis and believe that, as a government, we do not want to keep anything closed longer than is necessary. If we could have done it all with one blow, it would have been good, but the wise thing is to do it securely. And that is why we are looking at the experience of the first stages before we go any further.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506154905	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506154906	That answer could have been used in many respects and, of course, there is due consideration for many sectors. However, this does not change the fact that for landlords of holiday homes and holiday homes in Denmark there is a completely different situation than in many other places. These are the contractual obligations that bind both the landlords of the industry and, as such, also bind those who have rented the homes in order to be sure that they can get their paid deposit back. That is why it is important that we get a solution. It may well be that the Minister does not consider this to be the most important thing, but I think it is important that the Minister is aware that we others think it is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506154950	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506154951	I am fully aware of the Danish People's Party's commitment to this issue too, and I just want to assure you that the government shares the concern and, as such, the commitment that we can help our tourism industry and also our summer house owners. I also think it is worth looking at assuming that the entry restrictions continue how we can then be tourists in our lovely kingdom and country when the summer really comes over, and swap some of the foreign tourists out with Danish if it gets there. So I think we share the passion, and I certainly have no doubt that the Danish People's Party will continue to pursue the matter. And I will only look forward to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506155033	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506155041	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506155043	Thank you for that, President. What do the Minister think about supporting coastal tourism, in view of the fact that many holiday areas face a season with lower occupancy in holiday homes and apartments?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506155106	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506155107	Thank you for that question. Tourism is a very important industry in Denmark and there is no doubt that the tourism industry is hit hard by the current corona crisis. As someone born and raised in Lild Strand in Thy, I personally know how much coastal tourism means in many parts of Denmark. Many coastal municipalities enjoy the many foreign and Danish guests who visit and enjoy the Danish beaches, summer houses and restaurants and the local hospitality each year. Tourists are of great importance to many communities, businesses and citizens. Tourism creates many local jobs, not least in many coastal municipalities, while, at the same time, the demand of tourists helps to maintain a customer base for example. shops and restaurants in many parts of Denmark. As the author himself refers to, many holiday areas are facing a very difficult season, and we are fully aware of this in the government. As you know, we are discussing the next phase of reopening with Parliament's parties, and right now we are holding hands under Danish economy and Danish jobs with aid packages and increased liquidity, including from tourism companies and jobs in the tourism industry. The second and next phase is a real economic recovery of the Danish economy. We have taken some of the initial steps, including by allocating EUR 30 billion. kr. to renovate buildings in the general sector for and by removing the building ceiling for municipalities. We have received many relevant proposals to restore the economy throughout Denmark, both from parties, organisations and industry, also proposals on how we support the tourism industry, which is particularly hard hit. These are proposals that we look forward to discussing further, because together we must get the Danish economy back on track. Hopefully we will also see that many Danes choose to take holidays in different parts of Denmark this year, and they will thus help to keep their hands on the Danish tourism industry in this extraordinary situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506155304	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506155305	Thank you. I am tempted to say that if the Minister and I do not agree that I am now asking some very good questions, then I will actually have some answers to what I am asking. It could be liberating. But I would also like to have some facts on the ground in this context, for that is, for example. Not enough to say many. Well, how many people actually spend nights with Germans, Norwegians, Swedes and Dutch? That's actually 15 million times they spend the night. We cannot replace that with Danish tourists. It is absolutely impossible to replace it. So there are some major structural problems in this. Coastal communities can start to shut down. It's 1,200 jobs all the way out in the front line, the trade association has said, that is, the holiday rentals. That's 1,200 jobs disappearing. It is a cost loss of 15 billion. kr. even now, from we closed in March and now until the beginning of May. 15 billion kr. has disappeared. It's not like that to change. So does the Minister for Industry understand if someone may have got the impression that the government has not shown an understanding of how serious the Corona crisis affects the tourist industry?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506155434	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506155435	No, I don't understand. Because it's an area we're preoccupied with. I will not even pretend that it is the government that is concerned about it, because we share that concern. I also think that today is a clear indication that there is a particularly hard-hit profession here. It almost goes without saying: we are on our way into the summer. It is high season for the tourism industry. It is high season for coastal tourism. And that is why the question is how to support it in the best way possible. Help packages can do something, the re-opening plan can do something else. What is important is just that the recovery plan is sound and based on the experience of the first rounds, so we do the right thing. Otherwise, it will just be a setback for the entire Danish business community, and also for tourism.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506155519	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506155519-2	Now I just heard that the Minister said that you could replace foreign overnight stays with Danish overnight stays. That's quite impossible. There are simply too many foreign nights. Maybe you could soften it up a little bit. But how is it that this really has to be restarted, if I may say so, right? Every day that passes, 107 million disappears. kr. Out of coastal tourism. So what's it like we're really gonna find this money again? What is it like to get coastal tourism going? What will the government do to restart tourism in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506155556	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506155557	I tried to indicate that in one summer let's assume that, but I don't know if that will be the case where the entry restrictions are permanent, how do you deal with the situation? And there, as Danes, we have the opportunity to use our own country as a tourist destination. I do not think it can compensate one for one, but it can mitigate it, just as the aid packages mitigate in a different way in terms of the losses that are for Danish business. What we have for us in the business group, where all the parties participate, is a topic discussion on precisely tourism and the experience economy, and there we will look at the scale, figures and data of the problem, which the rapporteur also brings up, and then we will have to discuss what the way forward is: how much helps the aid packages, and what else is there that has not been dealt with?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506155642	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506155644	Thank you. Now I actually asked the Minister what he would do to restart. Maybe you could ask there was a plan for it. After all, it is 4,6 per cent. of the Danish bnp, which comes from tourism revenue. That's 161,000 jobs. One might expect that there was a clear answer to that. But what does the Minister think it takes to make Denmark again an attractive holiday destination?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506155717	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506155718	I would like to arrest it that Denmark should not be an attractive holiday destination. It is not Denmark as a destination that is wrong with here. It is, of course, the question that the world is hit by a corona crisis and that the borders are therefore closed down. The government is constantly considering the travel restrictions, but it is clear that this consideration must be based on the experience of the first phases of the reopening of Denmark, so we are on the experience of how the reopening has progressed, and the success of this will be the possibility of further reopening. A reopening in which we are not only considering the border issue as a government, but also, of course, discussing with the parties of the Folketing what we need to do in terms of centres, restaurants and other professions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506155759	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you, sir. Kim Valentin. We move on to the question that is raised. S 1076. It is also to the Minister for Business and Industry, and it is asked by Mrs Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506155811	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506155813	Thank you. Why has the Minister, cf. an analysis from SME Denmark which shows that only 2%. by their members have received compensation for fixed costs, which constitute by far the largest aid scheme, not also initiated immediate payment of the compensation for fixed costs?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506155835	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506155837	Thank you for that question. I know it is a really difficult time and an uncertain time for many traders when revenue disappears, while bills still have to be paid. Therefore, I also understand that the hard-tested companies can experience it as being frustrating when the payment of compensation does not just come straight away. For the same reason, we have put turbo on pay compensation and compensation for self-employed workers. Exceptionally, compensation shall be paid immediately in these schemes, unless the application contains too many errors or is deemed to present a particularly high risk of fraud. As the questioner points out, the compensation scheme for fixed costs is the most extensive and also most complex of the established compensation schemes for Danish companies and employees. Compensation of as much as 110 million may be granted here. kr. to a single company. In order to reduce the risk of abuse, we have therefore agreed that companies should submit evidence of the fixed costs for which they seek compensation. The documentation shall be endorsed by an auditor. The Danish Business Authority is ready to process the applications on a large scale, and also expects to be able to keep up as the applications roll in. If it is already announced that immediate payments will be introduced under the fixed costs scheme, we risk receiving fraud applications and paying funds to the fraudster. Therefore, I do not think it is appropriate or appropriate to talk about immediate payments for compensation for fixed costs. I will, of course, follow developments closely, and we will also keep an eye on how we can get the aid packages to work in the best way and also to do so quickly. Furthermore, with the political agreement of 18 April, we have agreed that every 14 days there will be reporting to the parties to the agreement, so that everyone is kept informed of the status.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160038	Thank you for that to the Minister. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160039	Well, thank you for the answer. As the Minister stands and expresses what I see as a great understanding of the companies, can the Minister not explain to me and to all the small and medium-sized businesses that stand right in the middle of the hurricane's eye on liquidity in red, uncertainty about how and when they can open up whether or not they can maintain their employees? 'Cause I don't know what they're left with. After all, the government has contributed with enormous uncertainty because the government is only now seriously looking at a long-term plan for reopening something that the Left has been asking for weeks to weigh the health care sector together with the economics. Now that the Minister is in charge of a rather heavy and expensive application process, where companies not only have to sign on to faith and laws, but indeed, as the Minister also explains, must submit an application with an accountant's endorsement, why has it not been the Minister's choice to immediately pay out the aid package for fixed costs? I think that there must be very specific considerations behind this. After all, the companies are bleeding down, and it is now that they need the cash flow, something that the Minister was also out to point out when he mentioned the pay compensation packages as immediate payment. I do not understand the explanation given by the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160155	Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160156	After all, we share the experience that there is a need for help and that it needs to be done quickly. The aid packages have also been called emergency aid, and this is clearly justified, because it is really urgent that many companies need help. After all, when we started paying the compensation immediately, we paid 2.6 billion. kr. In just a few days. I have tried to outline that the challenge of doing so in the context of compensation for fixed costs is that that scheme is quite, quite different, and if, moreover, it were to be announced that there would be an immediate payment, which I am in doubt about at all, it would of course also be called for applications of a completely different nature from the serious applications that have already been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160237	Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160238	Well, when I'm standing here, it's not for teasing. It is because I was also standing here 14 days ago asking if you could make an advance payment of what the Minister then came out with 8 days later as immediate payments on the compensation scheme. That is why we are pushing for it, because we know that it has consequences. After all, we share and agree with the Social Democratic Party that we must keep our hands on Danish jobs. How can we now push further so that we can get some payments to companies so that they can have some liquidity with which they can work?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160310	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160311	I share the experience that together we are actually trying to take this incredibly seriously. Both the questioner and myself are talking to companies that are in extremely difficult situations. Therefore, the aid packages have initially been decided as guarantee schemes and aid schemes. Now several billions of dollars have been paid out immediately in a matter of days, and the next thing we look into is how the fixed costs system is going. It's a different arrangement. It's built more complexly. It requires an auditor's report from the front. It is not just a matter of making an immediate payment, so it would be irresponsible of me to stand and propose it in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160353	Heidi Bank, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160354	Now the Minister has mentioned on several occasions that these immediate payments have been made within a few days. Why, then, is it that I hear from SMEs, that companies are getting letters saying that they are approved, but that payments will be made in seven days' time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160414	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160415	I think there has been a standard wording in some of the letters. In any case, the fact is that from the moment we notified the immediate payment of compensation for wages to a few days later, on 1 May, we actually achieved 95 per cent. the undertakings covered by the scheme had received their compensation. Those who had not received it were the companies where there were many errors in the applications or where there was a great risk that it was a fraud application. That's why I don't recognize that picture, and the money should be out with the 95 percent. of the companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160454	Thank you to Mrs Heidi Bank. The next question is Question 30 on the agenda, and that is for the Minister of Industry by Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160503	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160506	Thank you for that, President. The question is this: does the Minister intend to take further steps to help those companies which have large stocks of goods which are largely unsellable?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160515	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160516	Thank you very much for the question. There is no doubt that there are companies that are having difficulty because of the corona virus and the measures to mitigate the serious consequences resulting therefrom. This also applies to companies with goods that may lose value over time. Of course, we cannot keep companies completely harmless, but we can give them a hand in helping them through a difficult time. I am glad that we have done so together and have found a solution so that companies can now include depreciations on goods with a low durability, in less than 1 month, in the statement of fixed costs. We have also extended the compensation period and made the fixed costs system more flexible by reducing the requirement for a reduction in turnover from 40%. 35 per cent. This means that more companies can receive compensation from the scheme, including companies experiencing a more moderate fall in turnover than for example. in the hotel and catering business. The Government does not think it would be appropriate to provide extended possibilities for compensation for depreciation of stocks of goods beyond the possibilities that we have already adopted, first and foremost because neither the Danish Business Authority nor the auditors can control it, and this will open up significant opportunities for fraud. The closure of Denmark has meant that there are companies that are concerned that they will be faced with goods that are difficult to sell, and I fully understand that. That is why I am also pleased that we have taken the first steps towards a gradual and controlled reopening of Denmark. Denmark has good opportunities to support activity and jobs in a way that also supports private demand for the products in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160651	Thank you. Lars Christian Lilleholt, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160653	Thank you for your answer, Minister. What I see is that there are a number of companies that experience that they have stocks of goods that are largely unsellable. It's clothes, shoes, flowers, plants, and it's a lot more. Is the government not considering any further action at all in view of the fact that for a large number of these companies there is an imminent risk that, if they are not compensated for the lost stocks, they will have to turn the key?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160725	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160726	We did it and, as I say, we did it together that we said that in relation to the goods that are perishable and that can be done, for example. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer has not been accepted by the Commission. For other stocks, the question is whether the gradual reopening which Denmark is currently doing, as one of the few countries, is in fact the answer to that, in relation to the fact that there will be greater demand and thus increased the possibility of selling the stocks in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160803	Lars Christian Lilleholt, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160804	Thank you. The Minister also mentions this argument that compensation cannot be increased because there is a risk of fraud or something like that, or that there may be some who might be slightly too easy to deal with the rules. I would like to have the Minister's reasons for this, to hear the evidence for it. Because I think it's a rather violent accusation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160827	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160828	Well, it's not an accusation against companies, because there are really, very many companies that really just need help, and which of course we have to go a long way and we do that too to help with this. But, of course, I take it seriously when the Danish Business Administration and the auditors say that they cannot control it if they open up increased opportunities for compensation for depreciation of stocks of goods beyond the possibilities we have already provided. And they believe that this could lead to significantly increased opportunities for fraud. Of course, we have to take that seriously. I think that both the questioner and I share with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160904	Lars Christian Lilleholt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160904-2	Thank you. I think it should be possible to set up the arrangements in relation to that, even with the post-control, which is not going to be so that people just get a blank cheque; they must subsequently also be able to show that they have actually suffered the losses in question. That is why I am somewhat surprised that this is the main argument, that is, the risk of fraud. After all, we see a number of companies that experience that they are really in need of liquidity. And in relation to what the previous questioner said, I would like to ask when you can expect some money to come out to these companies. There are very many companies that are really affected by liquidity and where the risk of redundancies is imminent.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160947	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506160948	However, it is absolutely true that companies affected by corona really need the money to come out to them. And I would like to acknowledge there, also to the rapporteur's party, that we chose, with our eyes open, to make a final effort in relation to the immediate payment of compensation for wages and also to enable small self-employed workers to do so. This has led to the payment of a very, very high amount, 2.6 billion. kr. of two days, in addition to what has already been paid. In this way, we will ensure that the funds will also come to companies quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506161026	Thank you, sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt. Then we'll welcome a birthday boy. Welcome to Mrs Bjerre from the Left, and the question is also to the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506161038	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506161040	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that it is satisfactory that only 30% of the budget is spent? According to an analysis from EjendomDanmark, shopkeepers in shopping centres in Denmark receive full reimbursement even if their shop is closed by order?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506161056	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506161057	The most important first: Happy birthday to the questioner. In addition, I would like to thank you very much for the question, because there is no doubt that the Danish economy and many Danish companies and employees are in a deeply serious situation as a result of the covid-19. There will be companies that are particularly hard hit because all or part of the company is closed down by an injunction, just as there are other companies that are hit hard by general economic uncertainty. The purpose of the compensation schemes is to hold hands under Danish companies and employees at a very difficult time when urgent help is needed. The fall in turnover of an undertaking shall be calculated for each cvr number, irrespective of whether the cvr number, i.e. the enterprise includes one or more stores. This also means that the calculation of the decrease in turnover includes a company's possible webshops. It may make sense for the individual company to try e-commerce on the basis of a long-term business desire to hold on to customers. In my optics, it is reasonable for companies to receive compensation that reflects the overall impact of the company's business. By managing the scheme via the CVR number, we ensure that the company's total economy is seen when calculating the compensation. Finally, we must also be honest that the demand for a CVR number is a safeguard against the risk of some being able to defraud and abuse the scheme, as opposed to, for example. to use p-numbers. A p number is not subject to the same regulatory requirements as CVR numbers as e.g. the annual accounts law. Companies wishing to do so may choose to place both turnover, fixed costs and results under individual parking numbers without there being any possibility of checking whether the information is accurate. I therefore believe that it is both fair and appropriate that we should continue to pay compensation on the basis of CVR numbers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506161255	Marie Bjerre, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506161256	Thank you. I am surprised that the Minister thinks that it is most appropriate for us to pay aid according to the CVR number. It is now the third Wednesday in a row that we are standing in the Chamber, where I ask the Minister questions about the government's aid packages in defence of our business, and I do so today. Indeed, as the Minister rightly says, there are some companies that are particularly badly affected and some companies that cannot recover their costs. It is a really big problem for many companies that the minimum requirements for receiving support in government aid packages are measured on the CVR number instead of on the individual departments. The situation is actually quite serious for many companies in this country. According to the analysis from EjendomDanmark, to which my question refers, it is in fact up to 3,500 stores in Denmark that cannot get full coverage. That's about 70 percent. of all the shops located in the mall around. I think that is a major problem. It is only because they are organized under one CVR number, and if you have just one place of business outside the shopping centre, you do not get full coverage. I do not understand why the Minister can find that satisfactory. Perhaps it helps with a concrete example to illustrate the problem: Jørgen Højrup Jensen from my own constituency has two Kop & Kande stores. One shop is located in Farsø, Farsø City Hall, and the other is located in Aars, on the main street. The one in Farsø is forcibly closed, whereas in Years it can keep open. That means that Jørgen cannot get full coverage for the loss that is suffered at the store in Farsø, despite being forced out. How is that satisfying? I'd like to hear a little more about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506161442	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506161444	I want to start by saying that I don't know if it's such an anniversary when we're here for the third time in a row. In fact, I think Mrs. Marie Bjerre is the one who has been most diligent to be here every week with me. I don't know if I'm hoping it'll last. We'll see. A p number covers a physical location, e.g. a store room. It could be a clothing store, and it could also be Kop & Kande. If the clothing store cannot keep open, the turnover will of course fall for this parking number, but there is the possibility that within the same CVR number you have, as is also the case here, another store that has the opportunity to collect earnings for the entire company. That is why the most rightful thing would be to look at the company together, and this is best done on the CVR number, which is also subject to different legislations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506161528	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506161528-2	It is quite true that I have asked a number of questions, and I do so in a way, because I think there are a lot of gaps in the government's aid packages, and exactly this cvr-numbers is one of them. I mean, the fact that there is a store outside doesn't mean that you get enough turnover to cover the costs. In the example I am setting here, rent must be paid for the shop in Farsø, which has to be paid for wages, and, moreover, revenue has also been lost. And in this example, like many other examples, there are waterproof shutters purely accounting. Two accounts are made: one for each store. Why can it not be fully covered in the centre when separate accounts are being prepared?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506161611	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506161613	... the situation, and of course I am also concerned about the many shops that are in a difficult situation; we share that with each other, i.e. the desire to hold hands under our business. Of course, I am just listening when the Danish Business Authority and others tell me that the possibility of checking whether the money is subsequently paid out to the right ones will be incredibly difficult if you use the p-number as the addressee on the money, because it is not subject to the same regulatory requirements in relation to the annual accounting law and a number of other laws; i.e., these are the cvr numbers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506161649	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506161650	I have to say that I am surprised that the arrangements must be so rigid that we cannot find a solution where we go into the individual departments, because accounts for each department can be prepared in purely accounting terms. What I hear in defence of it is that you are worried that it can be defrauded if you give aid per year. I have to ask here, as my last question, whether the consideration of avoiding fraud is more important than the consideration of helping these many companies that have been affected. And so, remember, it's up to 70%. of all the shops that are located in centers around.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506161722	And the Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506161723	Everything must, of course, be in balance with each other, and that is the right balance we must try to find here. Let's take Kop & Kande in Farsø: I think what will be really important is that if the gradual reopening that we are doing in Denmark now succeeds, and if we do it properly and wisely, then it may also be possible for the centres to open up again, and that there is a possibility that Kop & Kande can roll up the curtains and invite customers into the store. That is why this is not just a question of aid packages, but also a question of the general reopening policy that we are pursuing, and fortunately we are leading it together, and I hope that we will soon be able to start phase two of the reopening of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506161803	Thank you. I would also like to thank Mrs Bjerre from the Left. The next question is also to the Minister for Industry, but this time by Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506161820	Welcome to the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506161826	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that it is reasonable to prohibit specific forms of economic activity from opening up and, at the same time, criticising other non-mandatory operators for opening up?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506161840	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506161840-2	I shall begin by regretting that, when the questioner first stood here, I felt a little bit bad, so I have now picked up water and got my jacket off and so on, so now we are trying to see if there is not a slightly more upright and standing answer to the question here. Well, thank you for that. The government's main priority is to mitigate as much as possible the serious consequences of the spread of covid-19 in Danish society. In March, therefore, a number of operators were banned from keeping their premises open to the public. As we have got the epidemic under control, the government has launched a gradual and controlled reopening of Danish society and business. As far as business is concerned, we have among other things. from 20 April 2020 opened the liberal services sector, e.g.: Hairdressers and masseurs. In order to ensure that the re-opening of Danish society takes place so that the spread of infection is limited, the government, together with the health authorities and the business community, has drawn up various guidelines to help traders reduce the risk of infection. The guidelines shall include: help to prevent the density of people who may occur in e.g. big storehouses. As there is an increased risk of infection, many crowd together at a time, such as: would be possible in large stores if we had kept the requirement for the 4 m2 per. We therefore needed to draw up new and revised guidelines to prevent this. As you know, we are also discussing the plan for the reopening of Denmark together with the Danish Parliament's parties. At the same time, the government has initiated dialogue with the relevant parties, including the business community, on how the reopening can be done in a responsible manner if necessary. In this context, I have a dialogue with the business community, under the auspices of what is called the government and the corporate corona unit, on how to ensure the responsible organisation of businesses when decisions are taken on reopening.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506162033	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506162034	Thank you. After all, we were here earlier, and I hope that was not why the Minister was not feeling quite well. However, as I understood our conversation last time, we agreed that last week, with regard to IKEA, there might not have been quite the prettiest course. I said it had gone a little wrong. Generally speaking, there have been slightly different statements by the government, which have been running something in zigzag course and have caused a lot of confusion. I have personally been talking to a number of different advisors to advise companies and who have not been able to find out on the Danish Business Authority's website instructions that have been changed several times daily, and I have asked questions, and many have. It has been a little uncertain, and many people have been uncertain, and we are talking about companies' livelihoods here. Today, there's this fine article. It's all about zoos and has the headline "Zoological Gardens" on rocking grounds after singing from the government: "We can open if we dare, but we don't dare. The minister is very skilfully pushing it to another minister, and maybe I would have done that too and say: this is not my business. I might have thought of that if I could, but the article here actually says something quite apt, and that is: The minister has not least, following Simon Kollerup's criticism of the IKEA warehouse chain reopened last week, led to harsh criticism of the government for •shugging and for allowing companies to navigate between specific legislation and powerful, sometimes moral, calls. ▪ Can the Minister understand that it is not easy to be a company right now? And would the Minister please take responsibility for what the zoos should do now?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506162234	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506162235	I understand that it is not easy to be a company right now. I would also say, to be perfectly honest, that we haven't done this before either. If there had been the same assembly instructions as for an IKEA cabinet and a single unbraco key you needed to make this work, we would probably have been in a different situation. But this is the first time we have done this, and fortunately I find that the reopening of Denmark is taking place in a way in which our business community not only takes responsibility for shutting down, but is also incredibly responsible when we open up. These are difficult balances which must always be found, but I believe that cooperation is the way forward, and this has also proved to be the case in the specific cases, both with the zoo and the IKEA.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506162315	Thank you. Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506162316	But if we then admit that this is difficult, and the Minister just does it anyway, that he is sweeping it to another minister, because you can do it, and when no one dares to do anything because of the minister I am talking to today, and because of the course that has taken, can the Minister not come up with some other statements or come up with some guidelines and tell us what to do? Can they open? What can they do? Because they can do it legally, and isn't it the law that we have to deal with?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506162348	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506162348-2	Yes, it is, but vice versa, it is no different in Denmark than that we can also have a dialogue with each other, and we have that with the zoos. Just as we had revised guidelines for the large comitology stores, the Minister for Culture is similarly in dialogue with the relevant parties on the responsible reopening of zoos. So in this way we are preparing for the zoos to open up, of course. After all, we want to open things up again, so when that day comes, there are clear guidelines that can be followed, including for zoos.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506162422	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506162423	We are just talking about companies that are legally allowed to open up, but they do not dare because of the statements made by the Minister, so, as he did in connection with IKEA after the rather unsightly course, can the Minister quickly give some guidance on what they want to do? Because this is gonna cost a lot of money, and we're right now where it's the next few months that counts for them. That's where they pick up their earnings.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506162447	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506162448	Nevertheless, I do not think that the matter of snapping our fingers and then having a set of guidelines is the way forward, but I can assure you that we are working hard on it and that we are working to get the guidelines in place, including for zoos and amusement parks, and, in parallel with that, there are, fortunately, very good negotiations between the party leaders of all the parties of the Danish Parliament and the Prime Minister about what can be included in phase two of the reopening of Denmark. So in this way there are different tracks running in parallel, but no one is interested in not having to go fast and certainly not in the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506162522	Thank you very much. So I would like to thank Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard. The next question is also to the Minister for Business, this time by Kim Valentin from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506162534	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506162536	Thank you for that, President. Does the Minister think that enough has been done with the aid packages to strengthen the liquidity of business in the short term?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506162550	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506162552	Thank you very much for the question. It has certainly done a great deal, and we have done so together. I understand very well that it is a very difficult situation for many companies to find themselves in as a result of the corona outbreak, and that is also why we have established a number of aid packages for our business community in this country. Here we have a responsibility to give healthy Danish companies good conditions to get through this difficult time, so that we do not lose a whole generation of companies on the floor. The government, together with all the parties of the Folketing and the social partners, has set aside a three-digit billion sum to strengthen the liquidity of companies. The liquidity of companies has been strengthened directly by postponing payment deadlines for VAT, tax and payroll charges. In addition, small and medium-sized enterprises can obtain their paid-up VAT as interest-free loans. The government has also created new state loan guarantee schemes in the Growth Fund and Export Credit Fund, which are targeted both small and medium-sized enterprises, but also the larger Danish companies. We have added new liquidity guarantees in Denmark's Export Credit to help small and medium-sized export companies by opening new loans. We have given a state guarantee to the Travel Guarantee Fund to help travel companies get through the crisis and we have given a state guarantee to SAS. All these measures have been necessary and, if opportunities are exploited, have the potential to strengthen the liquidity of Danish business with more than 300 billion. kr. In addition, the release of the countercyclical buffer in credit institutions has enabled banks and mortgage banks to increase their lending during this crisis. In this context, I am also sensitive to the positive announcements by several banks to help companies, and here it is my impression that the banks broadly comply with the joint declaration published by the Government and Finance Denmark on 23 March. It is therefore my view that, in the current situation and in dialogue with each other, banks and companies generally find solutions that do not burden businesses unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506162755	Thank you, Minister. Here you go, Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506162757	Thank you for that and thank you for your answer. I recognise that the Minister has tried to make aid packages, but the problem is to get the money out of the aid packages. I personally have more than 30 years of practical experience in this world with these very things from the private sector. There are three things that can destroy a company. One is poor equity. The other is a poor operation. And the third is "and that's what's totally overshadowing at the moment" that you don't have any money in the box, i.e. poor liquidity. In fact, you usually have to have two of these things for a company to go bankrupt. At the moment it is only one thing, and it is liquidity, liquidity, liquidity. I must therefore say to the Minister that it is not good enough for these payments to be delayed. When we get to the end of May, we're going to see a lot of bankruptcies; so many bankruptcies that we won't like it. It is therefore my recommendation to the Minister to look at these things immediately. Couldn't we do something more than what we've done? What does the Minister say about making an immediate payment of aid for fixed costs in the same way as for compensation for wages?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506162926	The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506162927	I would like to start by saying that I think the rapporteur said: the Minister's aid packages. These are our help packages. We made them together in the Folketing. It does not, of course, exempt us from discussing whether they are good enough. I think they're really good. It does not, of course, exempt us from discussing whether we can get the money in the aid packages more quickly. There we have found, with joint help, that two of the schemes could be paid immediately: wage compensation and self-employed. We have done this with great success, so massive sums of liquidity have been pumped into the companies here up to 1 May.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163005	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163006	It sounds as if the Minister is thinking that it must be enough and therefore it could not be considered with fixed costs. Another area which is also important for a great many companies, I think, is that there is openness about these parts. And, unfortunately, when I talk to business owners about this, my impression is that much of it is seen as closed. One of the best things about Danish democracy is the very thing about dialogue and openness about all things, and I can see that the Minister is nodding. Well, there's an agreement in relation to these parts. So I would like to ask: when does the Minister expect the aid packages to reach the companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163053	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163054	I'm not sure I heard the last word. Kim Valentin arrives). Oh, okay. First there was the question of whether that was enough, what I said in the first round, and whether the flat-rate costs could be paid immediately. As I said earlier to a questioner from the author's party, there are certain challenges to this. It is a different scheme from the wage compensation scheme. It is built up in a completely different way, and the mere announcement of immediate payment will in itself call for applications of a nature that we may not want to get into the scheme. So there's trouble navigating this. We are working so hard, we can assure you of that to ensure that the aid packages reach the companies as quickly as possible. Because we share the experience that liquidity needs to get out as quickly as it can to the right people, and the right people are the ones who need help.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163143	Kim Valentin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163144	Thank you. And thank you for a sincere desire to answer these questions; I experience that. The last question I have is about these many bankruptcies we are currently seeing. We could avoid some of them if we hired some more people to deal with these applications. I saw that the Minister was out with 500 employees, but there have been only 250 employees. Couldn't you hire some more?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163211	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163212	It is true that the staffing has increased massively within the Danish Business Authority in order to manage the payment of this. I think it should be seen that what is the mode of these schemes is that there are some very potent, effective IT systems that actually work and that make sure that this money comes out quickly. So there is not the same manual procedure on the cases once the systems have run up and that is why it could also be possible to pay 2.6 billion in two days. kr. to the Danish business community: It was because the systems kept and worked. So I don't think it's a question of one or two more employees, but whether the systems work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163253	Thank you, sir. Kim Valentin. Now we are faced with the fact that there is actually one more question for the Minister for Industry, but according to paragraph 20 of the Rules of Procedure. 5, Question Time for a single minister may not be longer than one hour. And it is the case that the questioner is not present in the Chamber, so I would like to thank the Minister for Industry. Then I would like to welcome the Minister for Employment and I would also like to welcome Mrs Pernille Bendixen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163333	Here you go to Mrs Pernille Bendixen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163342	What is the Minister's view that a great many day carers have to work more than the 48 hours fixed weekly due to increased cleaning requirements due to covid-19?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163400	Here you go to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163402	I would like to thank you for the question and start my answer by stressing that the rules that apply, whether they be agreements or legislation, must be respected. The so-called 48-hour rule arising from the Working Time Directive is that employees are not allowed to work more than 48 hours a week on average. The period on which the average is calculated may be 4 months and up to 1 year, so there is some flexibility in the rules. How to implement the 48-hour rule in day-care agreements or in general, I will leave the parties to the agreement to do so. I don't think I should interfere with that. If agreements are not complied with, this could lead to a case in the professional system, so there is no opening up for a day care provider to accept to work more than permitted because we are in a special situation right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163454	Thank you for that answer. It makes me happy. Now it's just factually that it's a situation that many day carers are in. The way in which some municipalities have solved the problem is to reduce the working hours of day care to, for example, the elderly. 45 hours or 44 hours a week so they can use the remaining hours for cleaning. I just want to know if the minister might be considering going into dialogue with KL, for example, in order to do what can be said about the bad municipalities paying attention to this problem, so that the day care providers also get help. For a day care provider is a day care institution, exactly at the same level as for example. It's a crèche.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163532	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163533	I think I will start by saying that I think it is clearly a problem if more than 48 hours are worked week after week. If more than 48 hours are worked over a limited number of weeks and that is matched by more free time in other weeks, then I think it may be okay. There are, after all, some employees who are happy to work in this way. What I want to say in this situation that we find ourselves in and to the questioner's question is that many people's working lives are affected by what is happening in Denmark and around the world in this time. Unfortunately, some lose their jobs, while others have to run extra hard and work overtime. Hopefully this is only a limited period. I hope so, both for those who are experiencing extraordinary work pressures and for those too many who are now standing and having lost their jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163619	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163620	I am sure that if the day care providers were asked, they would sign up for exactly what the Minister says, namely take something extra. But I know from their union, the FOA, that they are also called by day care providers, such as: working 56 hours a week and actually crying over the pressure that is on them because they do not feel that they can carry out the task, that they have to spend their spare time, that they have to clean morning, dinner and evening and also take account of their own families. So I really don't think it's possible to say that they're just gonna have to get through this period. I think we need to send a clear signal from here that it is not going to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163654	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163655	I would just like to say that my previous comment should certainly not be heard as a neglect of the challenges that exist. It was more a finding that there are real, very many groups in society right now, and fortunately for that, which, regardless of whether it is the educators in the municipal crèches, whether it is the day care workers, whether it is the health care staff, whether it is the rest of the cleaning staff, or whether it is all sorts of other people running extra heavily in these times. And my comment was basically an attempt to say that I really think we should recognise and thank them for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163729	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Bendixen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163730	Well, then we'll send a thank you from here. And then I would just like to call on the Minister once again to enter into dialogue with KL, who can then enter into dialogue with the municipalities, because it can be resolved quite quickly and quite simply if KL just joins us here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163743	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163744	There is no doubt that I will take that call further. I think that what we should remember first of all is that this hopefully is and is pointing towards a temporary situation in which parts of Denmark have been shut down and there has been extra pressure on a large number of the jobs that are and where, hopefully, because we have been good and strong collectively and have knocked down the infection, now that the reopening can return to more normal conditions. But, of course, I think that day care providers and their trade union should also do what they can to raise this to their employers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163825	Thank you to the Minister for Employment and thank you to Mrs Pernille Bendixen from the Danish People's Party. The next question is also to the Minister for Employment. This time, it's by mr. Hans Andersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163833	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163836	Thank you. What does the Minister think should be done specifically to save SAS, which is now facing the task of dismissing 5 000 employees in Denmark, Norway and Sweden?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163848	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506163849	Thank you for the question. This is a serious situation for SAS and the rest of the Danish aviation sector that is very worrying. SAS is an important workplace in Denmark and Scandinavia. SAS helps to make Copenhagen Airport a regional hub and employs a great many people directly and indirectly. It is therefore also a really sad situation that SAS is in; a situation that the government is looking at very seriously. The Government and the Folketing have already done much to limit the economic consequences that large parts of society feel as a result of the covid-19. The government, together with the rest of Parliament, has adopted aid packages for up to 400 billion. DKK, which is aimed at supporting Danish employees and Danish industry, among others. the wage compensation scheme for fixed costs. These are aid packages which also support the Danish aviation sector. With the support of the Danish Parliament, the Government and the social partners have concluded a tripartite agreement on a temporary wage compensation scheme for employees in the private labour market; an aid package which SAS has already made great use of as they have registered the repatriation of approx. 3,600 employees through the scheme. This helps to ensure that the 3,600 employees are still in jobs and receive full pay. In addition, State guarantees from the Danish State and the Swedish State will amount to a total of 3 billion. kr. to SAS help provide SAS with new liquidity. According to SAS's CEO, the Danish State's assistance has saved many jobs in SAS. From this point of view, it is my impression that State aid will help to secure many jobs in SAS, even if the company has announced the dismissal of employees as a result of reduced expectations for the future. The State follows closely as a long-term and responsible co-owner of SAS's development and will do what is necessary for SAS to get through the crisis and will continue to be operational thereafter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506164045	Here you go, Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506164047	Thank you. I fully agree with the Minister that this is a sad situation. We also look very seriously at this when we see that SAS is in serious trouble and has had to announce the dismissal of 1,700 employees in Denmark alone. If the Minister then at the end of the reply indicates that the government will do what is necessary, then the obvious question is: what is the minister thinking about? What's the government thinking about? In the Left we are preoccupied with the fact that we will have a long-term plan, because we need SAS in the future. We need SAS as the company it is; the company that ensures that our business community is brought into the world; it ensures that there is growth, and it guarantees part of the foundation for Copenhagen Airport as a whole. So what does the Minister think should be done from here? So now the Minister does not come up with a concrete plan, but does the Minister agree that, in this way, we need a long-term plan to ensure that we also have SAS when we get on the other side of the crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506164214	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506164215	First of all, I very much agree with Mr. Hans Andersen in that we in Denmark and here in the metropolitan area have a very, very great interest in having a well-run SAS that is still on the wings of the corona crisis and the challenges you are facing right now; it is crucial for Danish business and it is crucial for Denmark and Copenhagen as a hub in the Nordic region. And in that light, I would like to emphasise again what the Minister of Finance has said, namely that the government will do everything it can to keep SAS flying.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506164253	Here you go, sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506164254	But when the Minister and Finance Minister state that the government will do everything it can, does the government look at other countries? We can see that there are other countries which are supporting their aviation by billions, that is to say on a scale which is somewhat greater than the support we have given so far. Is that the size with which we are going to support SAS?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506164325	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506164326	At the risk that it may sound polemical, and that is absolutely not the intention, I think first and foremost that we jointly • and I know that the then government party has become wiser • should be pleased that we were not tempted at the time in 2017 as the then finance minister had thought that it might be a timely time to sell off Denmark's ownership of SAS. Because that makes our ability to actually do something in this situation bigger. The second is that we are certainly looking at some of the measures that are being taken in the world to ensure that there are still large airlines with a strong link with regional aviation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506164409	Hans Andersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506164410	But does this mean that the Minister will also put action behind the words? I believe that SAS needs a message from the government and the parties of the Folketing and that it is concrete, firm and to work with. So would the Minister take the initiative that we should actually now reach out to SAS and tell them that we would actually like to support them in bringing them forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506164438	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506164439	All the way through, we have given an outstretched hand to SAS. I do not think that there is any doubt about both when looking at the way in which the compensation scheme was put together, the interpretations that have been followed by whether the scheme can still be used during the early warning period, and the fact that we have now, together with the Swedes, activated the State guarantee that we extended early on, and with the ongoing dialogue that is • that SAS is well aware that the Danish and, hopefully, the Swedish States will do what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506164516	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen, and thank you to the Minister for Employment. We have another question from the same questioner to the same minister, namely question No. 39.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506164524	Hans Andersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506164528	Thank you. Does the Minister believe that the government has done enough and has acted quickly enough to keep its hand under SAS and the many jobs it employs, among other things. in and around Kastrup, when SAS announced on 28 April 2020 that they would fire 5,000 employees, including 1,700 alone in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506164552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506164553	Thank you for the question. Let me begin by stating that the government is ready to help SAS further if necessary to get the company through the crisis. From the start of the crisis, the government has worked at high pressure to implement comprehensive aid packages that can support the Danish business community and help the Danish employees in a time of economic pressure. On 10 March, a few days after the Prime Minister's announcement about the partial decommissioning of Danish society, we presented the first initiatives to remedy Danish economy and business with among other things. deferment of payment periods for A-tax and VAT. Shortly thereafter, the Government and the social partners presented a temporary wage compensation scheme for employees in the private labour market, a scheme in which SAS applied for compensation to approx. 3,600 employees and therefore also helped to hold hands during employment in and around Kastrup. Since then, the government, together with the Danish Parliament's other parties, has adopted comprehensive measures and aid packages to hold hands under the Danish economy, which together account for 400 billion. kr. These are measures which will also benefit the Danish aviation sector. In addition, State guarantees from the Danish and Swedish States will amount to a total of 3 billion. S.A.S. to assist SAS in providing SAS with new liquidity. I would also like to stress once again that the government takes the situation around SAS very seriously. As mentioned in the opening decision, the State, as a long-term and responsible co-owner of SAS, will closely monitor developments and do what is necessary to enable SAS to overcome the crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506164728	Here you go, Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506164730	Thank you. Again, the Minister says that the Minister and the Government will do whatever is necessary to ensure that SAS gets through the crisis. However, the question was whether the government had done enough, and one can at least see that we are now in a situation where SAS has announced redundancies, even if there are aid packages. So we can at least conclude that this has not been enough. The question is: what can the pilot and the cabin crew, who have been announced fired, use the words that have just come from the minister? I think we should perhaps recognise that yes, we have made aid packages, and yes, that is some large amounts of money but have they been sufficient? That is the question. And we in the Left believe that we can see here that they have not been enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506164836	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506164837	I think that is an interesting point of view, since the situation of SAS and the other global aviation industry is that, as a result of a global pandemic and health crisis, the level of activity has fallen from 100%. to less than 1%. of their turnover. This is not due either to the partial decommissioning in Denmark or, for that matter, to many other things; it is because people no longer get into a plane, that there are no flyers to fly, that there are no suitcases to load and that there are no passengers to check in (Den fg. President-in-Office of the Council.). The Government's actions have been important in the sense that SAS (Den fg. President-in-Office of the Council. Hans Andersen, go ahead! ) have not had to succumb, as other airlines do before our eyes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506164922	I would ask the Minister to keep to his speaking time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506164925	In other countries, Germany, France, the governments have announced billions of aid for their air transport in an amount that has not been seen before. And there I think we need a statement from the government that it is also part of a plan. And we need a long-term plan to say: we need to help SAS out of the crisis. And I really do not have to hear that the government is concerned about that in the same way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506164959	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506165000	But Mr. Hans Andersen has also been able to read about it in the Stock Exchange, where the Minister for Finance has said it, so that the Danish Government, together with a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, is prepared to do everything we can to ensure that SAS keeps its nose above water and regains the position of one of Northern Europe's leading airlines on the other side of this crisis. However, it is also interesting to hear that the Left today is actually in favour of the idea of the German road • a greater state involvement in a private company. I find that interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506165040	Hans Andersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506165040-2	We are quite open to discussing all models, all solutions, to ensure that SAS continues to help out on the other side of the crisis. SAS is a key player, central to Denmark and central to our business community when it is to be brought into the world, so we would like to discuss all options. However, we lack an invitation from the government to discuss a long-term plan on how to help aviation further. And here, in the specific case, it is SAS.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506165112	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506165113	I will pass that statement on to the Minister for Finance, whom I am aware of, of course, both have ongoing discussions with his Swedish colleague up in Stockholm from the Swedish Government, who is the second major co-owner of SAS, but of course also with SAS' management. And I particularly welcome the point of view of the Left, because it contrasts so much with what was expressed in 2017 by then Finance Minister Kristian Jensen, who at that time wanted to dispose of the Danish joint ownership of SAS.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506165148	Thank you, Mr President, to the Minister for Employment, and thank you to the honourable Member. Hans Andersen. There are no more questions for the Minister for Employment in this instance. Then I would like to welcome the Minister for Housing. Question No 1, by Mr McMahon 40 have been asked by Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506165205	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506165208	Thank you. Can the Minister state how many of the housing associations are required to draw up development plans for the winding-up of 60%? general family homes that have had to postpone or will have to cancel large meetings for residents or other decision-making meetings due to restrictions on the freedom of assembly caused by corona? And will the Minister allow these housing associations to extend the deadlines for implementing the so-called development plans?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506165240	Thank you. Here you go, the Minister of Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506165242	Thank you for the question. No, I cannot tell you how many of the housing organizations have to implement a development plan which has had to cancel meetings where important decisions had to be taken for the progress of the plans. I don't have that information. But I do not think that we have a major problem in this area either. The possibility of postponing or cancelling meetings of the residents' democratic bodies in the general housing sector is isolated until the time when the Minister for Health and the Elderly has issued a ban on larger assemblies. Meetings which have been postponed shall be held without undue delay when the ban on the assembly is lifted and the notice shall, as a rule, be valid only until 1 July of this year. For comparison, the development plans run until 2030. That is why I find it difficult to see that, in the broad picture, any delay in a decision in spring 2020 leads to a delay in the transformation of residential areas until 2030. The first progress report of the development plans shall be sent to the Ministry of Housing on 1 October 2020. In this context, we will have the opportunity to take stock of whether important information has been postponed and whether it is important for the achievement of the milestone in the first year. I do not expect that to be the case, and I do not expect it to delay the final plan at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506165400	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506165402	Thank you. I am aware of the fact that, among other things, we are dealing with a number of issues. In Brabrand Housing Association in Section 3, a meeting was cancelled, including a meeting was held in Brabrand. were to relate to the budget and where there were proposals from residents who wanted 200,000 DKK to be allocated. to legal advice so that legal proceedings can be conducted which, as such, try to roll back something in the development plans that have been imposed on them. I mean, you can run cases around expropriation. After all, it cannot be set in motion until a departmental meeting has decided whether to make a revised budget so that it allows legal proceedings, which are part of the processes here, to be conducted. One thing, of course, is that the Folketing passes some laws, something else is that citizens subsequently, among other things. housing associations and residents of residential units have an opportunity to take other steps. That is where we are then hampered by the fact that the budget that was proposed cannot be adopted. I am also aware that in Vollsmose we have not been able to hold the departmental meetings as we should. I am aware that in Tingbjerg there have also been no departmental meetings. This means, of course, that we can find ourselves in a situation where the roadmap for a development or resolution plan cannot run according to what was planned. However, I note that the Minister says that the reporting to 1 October could give rise to looking at the extent to which this Corona crisis has had consequences for the local democracy and the opportunity to take decisions democratically, as a follow-up to the parallel society package implemented by the previous government by a fairly large majority. So I would like to know whether the Minister considers it important to take a careful look at the reports that come for these 16 areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506165608	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506165609	Well, I most certainly do. I think there are only 15, but don't let it separate us. However, I think it is essential to ensure that we have mixed housing areas. I regret it, every time annual meetings or meeting of residents in the general housing sector have to be cancelled. However, I would also like to say that I do not believe that legal proceedings which go against democratic decisions both in the Folketing, in the municipal councils and in the housing organisations are not essential to the implementation of the development plans adopted democratically.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506165651	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506165652	No, but there could be some legal cases that make more sense to carry out before people are put out of their homes. That's one of them. what some of the trials could be about. It is, of course, right that we should come to the conclusion that departmental meetings should be able to decide whether or not to allocate money to lawyers so that these matters can be dealt with. There may be other departments where you can run these trials without further ado. So I actually think it is essential that the corona crisis does not undermine democracy and weaken the residents' ability to run those cases after the Folketing has decided something.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506165731	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506165731-2	I agree that, in the case of ordinary section meetings and residents' meetings, democracy is being weakened. However, I would like to say, on the other hand, that if you have a democratically adopted resolution in the housing organisation, in the municipal council and also here in the Folketing, which you then delay or delay through the legal profession, then I think it is also a weakening of democracy. If you do not want to accept the decision of the majority, the people's regime, and then through court cases • which may even impose additional rent increases on the residents • they delay decisions, then I do not think it is a strengthening of democracy. I think that is a weakening of democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506165812	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506165813	I think it is a strengthening of democracy that the resident democracy that is in the departments is allowed to unfold, and it can only unfold if you have the opportunity to hold the decision-making section meetings, where all residents can then deal with an incoming proposal to start a trial. I do not think that should be downgraded in any way in advance, because what else could the individual resident do? Yes, it is easier to get together and, like, to decide that there should be some legal advice when you want to run cases. So I think we absolutely should wait and not influence in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506165850	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506165851	Well, I am just ideologically fundamentally opposed to what the rapporteur is bringing forward. I believe that it is an unnecessary Americanisation of our people's rule that, if you disagree with what the majority decides, you run legal proceedings on one and the other in order, through the courts and the judges, to overrule what the people's regime has decided. I think that is an Americanisation of our popular rule, and I am not interested in that. However, I fully agree with the rapporteur that we must ensure that there is no excessive delay in a meeting of residents or an annual meeting in the individual housing departments, and it is essential that we get it back into operation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506165930	Thank you to the questioner, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, and thank you to the Minister for Housing. There are no more questions for the Minister of Housing. Then I would like to welcome the Minister for the Environment and the questioner, Mr President. Erling Bonnesen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506165943	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506165945	Thank you. The question is: why will the government not give full compensation to the landowners when the government intervenes in ownership and deprives the landowners of rights and opportunities by its ban on fertilization etc. in Section 3 areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506170001	Here you go, the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506170002	Thank you for the question. We are in a natural crisis where species die out faster than has been seen in human history, and therefore we must take better care of our nature. This also applies to the light-open natural areas protected by Article 3 of the Nature Conservation Act. Now we are taking an important step by banning the spraying, fertilization and conversion of these protected natural areas, and in this way better habitats are being created for the protected natural areas for the benefit of others. birds, insects and plants. Nature and environmental legislation in Denmark includes both replacement-free regulation and interventions where companies are compensated for the loss caused by the rules. Compensation often does not follow when general requirements are imposed on companies to reduce pollution and environmental impact. Here the polluter pays. This applies, for example, to waste management rules. In other cases, of course, we should consider compensating the affected companies. However, the prohibition here is deemed to have limited economic consequences for most farms concerned and will not exclude the continued use of the areas concerned. The ban is proposed to enter into force in two years' time and, on that basis, I and the government consider it reasonable to implement bans as compensation-free regulation. Where a farmer may be particularly badly affected, then there is also the possibility of expropriation compensation or exemption.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506170128	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506170130	Thank you. Well, we fully agree that we must, of course, take good care of our nature and our surroundings, and we in the Left are also in complete agreement in terms of making an effort to strengthen biodiversity. We have no problem at all with that. Where the chain goes completely off, and where it is scandalous, when you intervene in ownership, the landowners take away rights without compensation, that is to say, it implements it as compensation-free regulation. That's where the chain goes, and that's what we think is critical. When it's the state, that is. public in the broad sense, which interferes with the ownership of people; many other places, if you take land for road construction, etc. Shouldn't it be the same here when you intervene in ownership? After all, it is farmers who have some of these lands, for example. only is quite ordinary grassland, where they provide a little bit of manure, so that the cattle can walk there and be fattened up during the summer. After all, they are being deprived of that opportunity now, and some of them are suffering quite a great loss. So there are not enough average considerations on it. There are farmers who are going to be very hard hit by this, and I think that is quite wrong. Will the Minister not consider this? We are discussing the bill at the moment, so I would urge the Minister to reconsider this, so that compensation is paid to compensate for the loss of value. And that is the question: will the Minister consider this and provide farmers with compensation to compensate for the loss of value when they intervene in their property rights in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506170313	Minister of the Environment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506170314	But it is very good to hear that the Left says that you want to help nature. The only problem is that when it becomes concrete, it is not going to happen anyway. And we tried to introduce this ban when we last had government power. When the previous blue government came to it, it was rolled back again. And if it was that the questioner and the author's party were so concerned that this should actually get through, but that farmers should be compensated, why not take advantage of that option instead of rolling it back? In fact, nature was not protected, and there we just look at it differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506170350	Here you go, sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506170352	We in the Left acted specifically on this, because instead of doing so on these areas, where on many of them there is quite a low natural value, we did some other measures: more untouched forest, more afforestation and a number of other initiatives, including biodiversity. That is exactly what I would also call on the Minister for the Environment and the Government to do, since it is now that the issue is coming up again. But again: I do not really get an answer as to whether the Minister will reconsider giving concrete compensation to those farmers who are quite seriously affected in this situation. After all, they are directly deprived of some of their operating opportunities. It is, of course, an intervention in private property, and it is a good basic principle to replace it in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506170437	Thank you. The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506170438	The questioner gets We think this is an important step. We can see that the vast majority of people will be affected by less than 5 hectares in relation to these protected areas, and this is, of course, a nature protection law that we have had for almost 30 years, but where these areas have not been protected by good but only by name. And that's what we want to change. So the government has embarked on a new green course, and so there are elements where it is replacement-free regulation, as in other areas. So, no, we are proposing that it should be compensation-free, but it is clear that, with regard to those farmers who are exceptionally hard hit and where there may be expropriation, we should of course look at that matter or grant a derogation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506170522	Thank you, Minister. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506170523	But what is the criticism here is that the Minister says that it is basically only if you are sentenced to it in court that you will receive compensation. It should be the other way around, so that the government says that when it is that the government intervenes in this way, as it does so of course must be compensated. After all, there are farmers who are now sitting out there and are being very hard hit, and it is not enough to make some average calculations that it is, on average, that and that figure for all of them. There are some people who are being disproportionately hit and who do not know whether they have been bought or sold. That is also why I continue to press for the Minister to turn around in this matter and say that, of course, we are giving compensation when it is that someone gets as badly hit as here, and there is no need to be dragged into court for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506170604	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506170605	The whole difference here is that the Left doesn't actually support this ban. And then you wrap yourself up in that somebody gets hit and so on. But does that mean that the Left, when it comes to all those who are either not in favour of expropriation or exemption, supports this proposal? As I know, it has not been the announcement from the party until now, and it says something about the difference that is: you talk about wanting nature, but when it gets a little difficult, and when it also requires that you actually stamp in and say that you want to do something different from what has been done for 30 years, it just doesn't really work out. And there we have said that we are acting on it and, overall, the assessment is that this results in an annual operating loss of 40 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506170644	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment, and thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. The next question is Question 42 with exactly the same team, the Minister for the Environment and Mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506170652	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506170653	Thank you. The question is: Why does the government implement its ban on fertilization, etc. in Section 3 areas, where according to researchers there is no professional evidence for the government's bill and there could be more nature and biodiversity with other more targeted measures in the field of nature, for example. more untouched forest, more afforestation and other targeted measures for more biodiversity and nature?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506170720	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506170721	Over the past 40 years, Denmark has lost more than 2.9 million birds, which are specially linked to the arable land. And a stop to spraying, fertilization and conversion of our protected § 3 areas will mean more flowering plants, more locusts, more butterflies and other insects. And it is of course for the benefit of our birds such as the partridge, the vipers and the singing lark, which have been in decline for a number of years and which are now redlisted. It is Aarhus University's assessment that the biodiversity of the areas covered by the ban will gradually increase and that in the first 10 years there is already expected to be a measurable improvement in the natural state and biodiversity of the land. Initially, better living conditions are being created for the more common species, and in the long term more and more species would be able to live and thrive on the land. With this initiative, therefore, we are taking an important step to improve the light-open meadows in the open country and, of course, the initiative is not alone. We have also set aside funds in the Finance Act for this year for more untouched forests, and we are preparing a package of natural and biodiversity measures to improve the conditions for biodiversity. So we want a lot of good things for our nature, and there this is an important step on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506170842	Here you go, sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506170843	Well, in the Left too, I think most parties say that they want to do a lot of good things to take good care of nature and biodiversity and also do something concrete about it. We did the same when we had government responsibility, and I was part of it in the Left. We'll just do it another way. What is puzzling here is that you go in and say that you want to protect some nature as well. Because when we look into the papers and the statements, it appears that more than half of the areas that the Minister is now going to say are protected are at a low level of natural value. Now a great deal of it is, you might say, just a few meadow pastures that are being used for some grazing, and then it is, it sounds strange, that you go in and say that you want to protect it. Wouldn't it be better if we had to make a common ground in relation to it, so to get the money to be spent on it, focused on that it could give something more in terms of protecting a good nature, a nice nature that is there, and not just some grasslands?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506170945	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506170945-2	But for us, it's just not a either or. It is a boat and, and I would really like to hear from the Left, if you do not think that the common species, which it is also about, are some of the birds that I just mentioned, the vibes, the singing lark, the partridge, are important species to look after. Or why is it that the Left is so prejudiced that we should not do so? I do not think it is so strange that areas which have been ploughed and sprayed for 30 years do not have such a high natural value, and they are, in fact, what we say we want to improve. That is why we want to improve the protection of a natural type, which we said 30 years ago was a special nature type.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506171022	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506171022-2	We are fully in favour of having to make an extra effort to take care of all the species of birds and plants that the Minister listed, so we fully agree with that. But then it's just weird that you're gonna go in and do it on some land that's gonna have a low natural value. You can understand that if what she says is boiled right to the bone, the Minister would rather look after some pastures than take care of something more beautiful nature, because you could look after something more nice, good nature by making it more targeted than this. I mean, this isn't really targeted enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506171052	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506171053	I think there's wool in my mouth, because it's more-less and less-less. Well, it's kind of hard to understand what the Left really wants with this. This is a concrete action that will do something good for ordinary bird species in Denmark, and we can see that very many species in Denmark go back, because we have received a report after report that shows that nature is in decline, nature is in crisis. The green organisations are calling for this, and they say it is a good step on the way. But it is clear that it is not, of course, alone, because we must also do much more of all sorts of other measures. But it's not a question of either or. It's a boat and if we're going to solve the natural crisis we're in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506171127	Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506171127-2	We are talking completely past each other because we agree that we need to take good care of many bird species, many plant species, etc. But what surprises me is that the Minister would rather take good care of some grasslands than take more care of some good nature that is already there. The Minister's approach has been to take good care of some nature and species of birds from the outset.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506171152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506171153	Yes, I would like to take better care of nature and, frankly, I think that we have done far too little for far too many years. And that is why, among other things, we are here today. on this type of nature can see that there are a lot of places where it doesn't have that high natural value. But it's no wonder when you've been spraying and plowing there for decades. And that is where we say we need to take better care of nature. And that also applies to the common species, and that also applies to the species of birds that I have just mentioned, because we want to see a nature progressing, and that requires that we do a great many things. So, of course, we need more untouched forests, but we also need to take care of the open country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506171227	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment, and thank you to the questioner, sir. Erling Bonnesen. There are no more questions for the Minister for the Environment, and so I would like to welcome the Minister for the Church and the questioner, Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506171240	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506171241	Thank you. What will the Minister do to reopen the churches as soon as possible after the closure of the corona, so that at least Pentecost can be celebrated in the church and thus avoid the churches being locked and empty, as they did Easter Sunday on the church year's biggest feast day?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506171259	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506171300	Thank you very much. There is no doubt that both the questioner and I and very many in the church are really eager to be able to open again. And it is also a major priority to get well into the negotiations which are currently going on among the party leaders on the reopening of Denmark. As Minister for Culture and Churches, it has been such a new thing to talk so much about physical health, because churches are usually mostly about taking care of mental health. And I think that is also very important for society and the community's resistance both at national level and in the congregations. So the church certainly has a major role to play, and I certainly hope that will be reflected in the reopening plan that is coming. The way in which I have tried to ensure that the reopening of the churches comes to the best of the negotiations is, of course, starting up the sectoral dialogue on which I explained last week and on which we have also had meetings, the rapporteur and I, to get the churches' own input on how to do it gradually and responsibly, also with the in mind that the churches may also attract some of those who are most vulnerable to the virus that characterizes our country. So it is important that it becomes a responsible decision; a responsible model for reopening the whole of society. And there I think that the churches have played really, really well and handsomely with the idea of how to deal with the challenges that will be. But, of course, it will be a balance on the whole social level, and I look forward to seeing how it will be implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506171445	Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506171446	Thank you for your answer. The Church Minister began by saying that there is no doubt that the Minister is eager, like everyone else, to open the churches. I would say that is exactly what is going on: there are doubts as to whether the Minister is eager to do so, unfortunately. Because I do not think it seems that pressure has been exerted to ensure that there are guidelines here as quickly as possible which could make it possible to use the churches as much as possible. I have seen, to my great wonder, and indeed also, yes, sadness, how one day before yesterday one could gather for a Muslim funeral, several hundred people. And the Church Department has allowed that to happen, okay? I'm excited to hear who's allowed it! Because you cannot hold an outdoor service with more than ten people, and also for an urn reduction, which also takes place in the open, you cannot be more than ten people. So it just seems strange that you can't do any of the things that, despite corona, you obviously can in the Islamic world of faith, in the Christian world of faith. So it just seems like there's, well, maybe some communication flaws I don't know what caused it. But at least there are some who do not use the opportunities that seem to be available to open the church. I have had contact with some people from the Danish National Church today, who are very, very sorry that the same rules have not been applied in the church, where they have been refused to hold events with several participants, while you see that it has been possible to do so elsewhere anyway. So has the church minister really done everything you could to get this church going lately?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506171655	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506171656	In fact, I have been very open about my efforts to take all these eager voices seriously and to get the church opened; in fact, so much that before Easter I came to say what was true that we in the government considered opening the churches at the Easter Festival, if it could happen in terms of health. On the other hand, it raised a consolation among the people of the church, who said: No, we want to be opened up with the rest of society. And that is also what has happened to the sectoral dialogue that is going on right now. I would like to make it very clear that the funeral, from which I also saw with very great disbelief and astonishment and outrage images, by no means President Thank you! ) were sanctioned by the authorities. Exactly the same rights apply to all religions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506171745	There's a very short time. Marie Krarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506171747	This is one of the few times when I really would have liked the Minister to have had more speaking time. I would have liked to have heard the rest here, because it seems strange that the police should be informed when there is a open-air service in North Jutland and it is emphasised that for God's sake there must be only ten people at a time. And the priest must then repeat the service, so that the interested can all participate in a service, while a funeral can be held shortly after in Aarhus with so many participants where the police do not intervene. It seems very strange.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506171827	Here you go, the minister of church.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506171828	Well, I fully agree with the questioner, and I was also really surprised that the police had not intervened. Because the same rules apply... I can now elaborate on that for all religions. Finally, we should not confuse services of worship, ordinary Friday prayers, sabbaths and other ordinary religious gatherings, with the three exceptions we have given, namely that baptism can still take place that can still happen and that funerals can take place. But still away under limited conditions. And they are the same for all religions. Unfortunately, there are some who have chosen to disregard these guidelines in this respect. I am also surprised that the police did not intervene there, as they did when it happened elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506171910	Marie Krarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506171911	But now that the Minister has seen that it is evidently possible to hold such outdoor events, I think that the church minister should press for us to be able to hold outdoor Pentecostal services with more participants than ten. It could be a step along the way. And now that you have seen that this can be done in other contexts, then it must be possible to do so in the Christian church.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506171936	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506171937	I think it is really important in this time that, because there are some who choose to break the rules, we do not take it as an excuse for others to do so. On the contrary, we need to follow up on the fact that this simply must not happen. And this has been part of the dialogue, and I look forward to it being discussed by the party leaders when they carry out the overall assessment of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506172011	Thank you to Mrs Krarup for the questions, and thank you to the church minister. Now we are to welcome Mrs Pernille Bendixen, and it is the same minister, now with a new title, because it is for the Minister of Culture that we now need another question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506172027	Here you go to Mrs Pernille Bendixen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506172030	Thank you very much. What is the Minister's view that voluntary association life, clubs and professional sport are ready for reopening with all the recommendations of the Danish Health Authority, but that they still cannot be allowed to open up?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506172043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506172045	I see that we have a really, really responsible association life, which is just ready with a bid as to how they could open up responsibly. A number of outdoor sports activities have been able to go in and adapt and adjust their recommendations since 20 April following dialogue with the health authorities, so that it is still within the recommendations and guidelines of the health authorities, and I am very, very pleased about that. However, there is a difference between the guidelines and rules, and the current Order in the Ministry of Health and the Elderly states that until 10 May it is prohibited to organise and participate in indoor and outdoor events, events, activities and the like, where there are more than ten people present, and that public cultural and leisure institutions must keep their premises closed to the public. So that is why there are a number of activities that cannot take place, but which I am sure the questioner is also aware of, then the Prime Minister and the party leaders are currently discussing a plan for the reopening of society. And that is why we have also invited the whole of society and sport in the Ministry of Culture into some sectoral dialogues about how you physically react when you are with these activities, so that the party leaders can get an idea of how these players could open up responsibly if they were to become part of the first phase, the second phase, or what stage might remain in the reopening. The most important thing for the moment is to sign both for the questioner's input, but also for all the associations' input on how we can offer responsibly. And then I am sure that the questioner, like myself, also has an eager dialogue within the party about how we are doing this overall social assessment, because it is a dilemma that all parts of society, I am sure, have offered in with responsible plans, but that everyone cannot open up at once, because then the risk of infection would be too great.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506172243	Pernille Bendixen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506172245	Thank you for your answer. This is, in part, an expression of impatientness on their behalf, and then there is the knowledge we got from the report that according to them they lose 500 million. kr., and that they also bleed members. Then you can say that they may survive for the present, but there should also be a voluntary association life when Denmark is opened up again. It's high season for them now; they usually connect to festivals, city parties and all these things. That is why it is essential for them to be allowed right now, and I am interested to hear whether the Minister is knocking on the Prime Minister's door to make their case. I can promise that the rapporteurs will do that to the party leaders, which is why, of course, we also need the clear answer from the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506172338	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506172340	Well, I think that the rapporteur can then agree with me on being divided as to which parts of the fantastic cultural life we have, one must then stand and be most eager on the basis of. To be honest, I think I can put myself in the position of the Prime Minister and the party leaders in relation to the fact that you want to open it all up because you know that there are people who miss the theatre; that there are people who lack association life; that there are people who lack sport; that there are people who miss their education; and that there are people who are not allowed to finish their high school stays. That is why it will be a very difficult balance, but I have done everything I could as a minister to ensure that all cultural players have been held responsible in the reopening negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506172423	Pernille Bendixen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506172425	I am the rapporteur for culture and sport, and it is their case that I am speaking, and then other rapporteurs will have to deal with what else may be in other areas, and fortunately so do they. So I rest confidently that others speak the case of the others, and that right now I am speaking the case of voluntary association life. In voluntary association life they are really uncertain about what they are allowed to do and what they are not allowed to do. What are the rules? And what is the framework? Could the Minister perhaps be a little clearer about them in relation to what guidelines they have to adhere to?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506172505	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506172507	Well, first of all, I would just like to say that all the areas I mentioned in my previous speech are, in fact, also within the area of culture and sport. So it is just an expression that we are responsible for a very large and diverse area, and that is why I also understand that it is perhaps difficult to enter into such general rules of society. But that's exactly what the goal has been with this sectoral dialogue, that is to say to get down quite specifically into standing cultural experiences, cultural experiences in motion and sitting cultural experiences in terms of what kind of guidelines you have to follow there. So we've learned more about that in the past week.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506172542	Last question for Pernille Bendixen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506172544	I just want to make sure once again that the Minister speaks the cause of culture and association more than that of the Health Authority and something like that. We must, of course, take that into account, but we also have the responsibility of both rapporteurs and minister for our areas, in other words, of caring for their very interests. And I just miss the Minister saying a little more: this is mine and I'm fighting for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506172612	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506172614	I can give you a promise that the Minister will do so but also with the understanding that the reason why I put culture and society so high is precisely that for me they are the ethical superstructure that holds our society together. I think that has actually been shown very well in this corona crisis, namely that one can regulate oneself out of a great deal, but that what is essential for us to be able to talk about reopening at all is that the Danes feel a community and that there is something called spirit that binds us together. This is an exponent to cultural life, which is why I believe that it is quite inclined to see itself as part of a wider context in terms of health.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506172652	Thank you both. Thank you to Mrs Pernille Bendixen for her question. Then we're going to the last question of the day. That is Question 45, and it is also for the Minister for Culture, and this time it is from Mrs Birgitte Bergman from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506172705	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506172707	Thank you for that, President. The question is: can the Minister explain what is preventing the Danish museums, which comply with health restrictions, from reopening at this stage?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506172719	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506172721	I fully agree that the Danish museums have put a huge amount of work into making an offer of how they could just live up to these health restrictions and at the same time make a reopening. Among other things: For this reason, it has also been the Organization of Danish Museums and also the state institution Statens Museum for Kunst, who has been involved in the sectoral dialogue in a subroutine about cultural experiences in museums and the like. At these meetings, ODM, the Organization of Danish Museums, has offered their plan, and it is now ready, along with the other players' input, to be able to be played into the negotiations on the overall reopening of Denmark. And there I am thinking that it will be a dilemma, i.e. that there may be parts of Denmark which have a completely responsible plan, but which nevertheless have to see themselves put in some form of order for the total pressure of infection. Because we have to remember that even if you can make responsible plans for parts of society, all social activity also has a secondary social activity. In order to get to the museum, you may need a train or bus to get there, and you may be gathering with some people you don't normally meet with, to have that experience together. It's also an important part of cultural experiences that you experience them together. So even with all restrictions it could have some derived effects. I think that it is really the party leaders who are best at making this assessment, because the rapporteur and I see, of course, primarily the players and the institutions that are in our area and we are passionate about them, but we are part of a society, and the prerequisite for the cultural institutions, including museums, to work is also that tourism gets back on track, that business, from which they get sponsorships, gets back on track, that the funds get back on track and that society generally gets back on track.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506172911	Birgitte Bergman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506172913	Thank you for that fine answer. I am very pleased that we have those sectoral partnerships, because they make very good sense. That is why I would also like to stress that it must, of course, be based on a medical assessment. But now a note has been leaked a few days ago where it actually appeared that museums were at the lowest end, and now I understand from the expert report sent to the party leaders today that the museums are simply not figured at all. I find that extremely incomprehensible. For me, it is quite paradoxical that you can go to construction markets, you can go to IKEA, and you can go to shops, as I know, you also have to transport yourself there. I think that what is important is that we get culture going, because that is precisely what binds us together. We need the space; we need it if it can be done properly. I think the museums particularly offer this very well. In addition, we are also facing a high season now with tourism, which is bleeding. If we as Danes are to transport ourselves around the country and have a reason to go I from North Zealand to Jutland and vice versa it also matters that the various attractions, including the museums, are open. So I simply expect a minister who will show a direction and who has a position on what it is that has to open. And I would like to ask: what is your position on what is to be opened up? Excuse me, Minister's position.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506173056	Exactly. The President was just about to correct. Birgitte Bergman OK). Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506173057	I'm sure I can tell you myself. First of all, I would really like to warn against comparing the fact that if one comes before me, then I am less important. Everyone The Asker and I have a special preference for the cultural part, but there too you could ask the same question. Why the museums, why not the high schools, why not film production, why not many things, why not society, as we just mentioned? I guess that's why it's also at the party leaders' and the prime minister's table to make this overall assessment. I am not going to report as a minister before, because that would provide a very scattered communication. I am waiting faithfully, I was just about to say, understanding that we must be loyal to the decisions of democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506173145	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506173147	I am here with a list of very many countries and these are countries such as the United States. Italy, France, Spain and Germany have already chosen to open their museums at the beginning of May. If Italy can open their museums on 18 May, Denmark should also be able to open the museums. This is largely due to the fact that it is estimated that museums are safe and that the crowd flow is controlled, and Danish museums also show very good examples of this, among others. Louisiana. So I would like to hear the Minister's position on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506173230	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506173231	I fully agree that museums have put forward a very secure plan, but we must also declare ourselves to be servants of democracy, and democracy includes the whole of society. When the questioner highlights the museums, one can say that libraries are in the same path compared to how people move around, but in this health situation we must see ourselves as part of a larger society. Some countries choose to open up some sectors, others choose to open up other sectors. I hope that we will be able to get the most open as soon as possible, and that will require us to put health at the top of the list.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506173311	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506173312	As I said, it means a lot to Danish tourism, and it really means a lot to us citizens that we can get out and get some mental content in our lives again, so what is the time horizon for our cultural institutions, including museums, to open up?
ParlaMint-DK_20200506173327	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506173328	After all, that time horizon will be revealed when we see the plan for the reopening of Denmark that is being negotiated right now. I hope that everyone, wherever they are placed in that plan, will know that both the questioner and I, and I think I can speak for a majority and at least for the cultural rapporteurs, will continue to work to ensure that they get through the crisis well. They are just as important as they were before the crisis, if not more, because we need them even more when we have the opportunity to visit them again, and that they may also reach out, as they have done, in new forms, so that we have cultural life with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506173402	Thank you to the author, Mrs Birgitte Bergman, from the Conservative People's Party, and thank you to the Minister for Culture. There are no more questions, either for the Minister for Culture or anyone else in this Chamber today. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200506173416	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday, 7 May 2020, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
