ParlaMint-DK_20200225130129	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225130134	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225130149	Yesterday, Jyllands-Posten gave an e-mail from the Social Democratic Press Service. It is an e-mail which I would like to express my regret, and I would like to stress here in the Chamber, that it is always the government's job to provide a good negotiating climate. You cannot say that such an email contributes to that. So I'm sorry. Of course, I attach the utmost importance to the fact that in all negotiations we have a confidential space. That is what we have, including in these debates, and I hope, of course, that, on the basis of my words today, we will be able to move forward with what everyone knows is a really, very difficult but also an important political debate. The movement we are engaged in is basically to move money from some of the wealthier municipalities to the municipalities that are most in need, because we basically believe that Denmark is too small a country to large differences. And it is important that we here from Christiansborg support and ensure that you can run a good welfare society in all parts of the country. I hope we get to the end of this deal. There are many who say that equalisation is a struggle between municipalities. We don't see it that way. It is a cooperation that is needed to make Denmark stick together. In fact, I could use all my speaking time today both to regret the actual mail and to discuss compensation at all. But I would just like to raise two other issues, which also matter a lot. I believe that all of us who have experienced meeting a person who has been raped know how serious it is. It can cause scars for life, traumas that put themselves both in body and soul, and for some people also a scary self-esteem: Did I even have a share in what was going on? Considerations of consent in this regard have been going on for a long time, and this is also part of our understanding paper. I really would like to thank Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen for making a difference in this area, among others. by asking the Criminal Law Council to look at how we can improve the rules. Now we have the report and it has been consulted. For me, it's pretty simple. Although, of course, everything is complex in law, it is actually quite simple. Sex must always be one hundred percent voluntary, not every time, but every time, and if you have doubts, something is wrong. Bruise and the ability to resist must not determine whether rape is involved, and it is therefore important that we have legislation that reflects the fact that all sexual acts can only take place and take place if we agree on it. That is why, as a government, we would like to put forward a bill based on consent, as agreed in the understanding paper, and the details of that bill, of course, we would like to discuss with the parties, so that we are sure that we will hit as precisely as we can. It will be a milestone in the fight for a more equal Denmark. That brings me to something else I'd like to share with you here today. Sexual abuse is aimed not only at adults but also at children. Especially painful is it, of course, if children experience it from the adults who should otherwise take care of them. I am, I would like to say, sometimes amazed at how low the penalties are in some of these very serious cases. We have seen examples where child abuse is punishable by imprisonment from four months up to one year. That is why, following on from the discussion we have in the field of rape, I would like to suggest that we should already start looking at how we can tighten up the penalties for sexual abuse against children. I hope that we will also be able to gather together in this Chamber. Finally, I just want to say a few words about the Corona virus situation. We are looking at it with increasing seriousness. Of course, the authorities have been following developments for a long time. Of course, developments in Italy mean that we need to pay even more attention. Fortunately, we have not seen anyone infected in Denmark, but nevertheless the Danish Health Authority has updated their safety assessment. This means that there are six hospitals that are now ready to receive people if there is a suspicion of infection. And it will also be possible to test people in several places in the country. We are in very close dialogue with the authorities. We are following developments closely, and it may be necessary to return to the Folketing if we need to take new concrete steps. I assume we have support for that. Then, with regard to the very citizen-oriented approach, I would like to call for constant follow-up to the guidance given by the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225130659	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for this. Now we move on to questions from the party leaders. The questioner and the Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time and then follow two follow-up questions where the questioner and Prime Minister each have 1 minute's speaking time. We'll start with sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225130714	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Prime Minister. I was actually looking forward today to asking such a little bit about the substance of the government's proposals for a compensatory reform, about how we can manage the tax, about how we can ensure good welfare, balance throughout Denmark, security for the municipalities' finances and then put an end to the overpayment of the social democratic municipalities in the West. We're just not there. Unfortunately, we're not there at all, and it really annoys me. Because this is important. That is the distribution of more than 18 billion. kr. It's about people's welfare, it's about people's daily lives, it's about the care of our children, it's about the care of our elderly. This is important. It is important for what it is for a welfare we can offer, it is important for what it is for a tax we pay. I have to say that one of the things that I value most about Christiansborg is the co-operative popular government, in which we so for a while attack and put aside tactics, sit around a table, look each other in the eye and say that this is simply important and that we are now finding a solution for the benefit of Denmark, for the benefit of the Danes, because it is important because it provides sustainable solutions, because that is what the Danes expect of us. That is why we have not left the negotiations on compensation, despite the fact that these negotiations are important, and the confidence that is needed to negotiate this has, at best, suffered a violent crack. The Prime Minister often talks about it with confidence, and that trust is important, but that confidence disappears like dew for the sun, when we can then find that the questions may be stupid, but at least questions we ask in connection with the negotiations, you go so and plan to use against us that you have to use them to attack the Left. Widely in government, you see these negotiations as a platform for political attacks, and it is then on top of these weeks of hard work to get a basis for calculation brought to light, and it has also been difficult. Now the Prime Minister has regretted or at least regretted the e-mail, and so I just want to know: what has the Prime Minister's role been and what has the Prime Minister's role been in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225130932	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225130933	No, I'm not just sorry about the e-mail. Because if we are to regret something, it has to be the content of it, and so I agree that every thing belongs to one's time, and the Left and the Social Democrats are both parties that can find a way of entering into a political discussion and also sometimes being hard on each other. But, of course, we also have to go into the area of negotiation at another time and find the result in which I believe both parties have a very great interest, and I am also pleased that there are still many parties in the negotiating room, and therefore hope that this means that we can have a good and sustainable solution here. As has already emerged, also from the public discussion, one of the special advisors in the Prime Minister's Office has been aware of the content of this mail, even before the rest of us have become familiar with it, and that is the case. Of course, when I choose to regret it, it is because it is our job to ensure a proper negotiating climate, and I would like to say that there is no one who has had any interest whatsoever in leaking from the negotiations and continuing a political discussion which one might actually think could have ended at an earlier stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225131045	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225131047	The Prime Minister usually makes a big deal of it, and I can understand it being in charge of all difficult negotiations, difficult decisions in Denmark's government, and so it may of course surprise me if the Prime Minister has not been aware of this. But let me ask you another way: can the Prime Minister guarantee that this is not a practice followed in other negotiations or in other ministries?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225131117	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225131118	I believe that we must separate things, because a government is always allowed, and it is perfectly legitimate that we should be involved in the political debate. And, of course, if you are shot at or attacked or questions are asked about the policy of the government, you answer, and you can also ask questions the other way. It is of course no different than it has been for all other governments over time. What we are discussing here is that when you are in a negotiating room together, is there a time when you have to shut down the ordinary political struggle and rhetoric and just focus on results? And there I agree that the e-mail and the resolution behind it do not reflect what I actually believe is both asking and responding, namely that where we are in the negotiations, we just want a closed space for us politicians to find the right solutions. The special advisors of the Prime Minister's Office have been familiar with this discussion. Of course, I also know that there is a discussion in the Social Democratic Party about how we deal with the issue of compensation in the right way. But the wording and spirit behind the words are not what should prevail when we negotiate with the parties of the Folketing; I would like to make that quite clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225131230	Sir. Mr Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, on behalf of the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225131232	It's kind of interesting that the Prime Minister knew. I do not dispute the fact that our parties should be allowed to attack each other. We must be allowed to challenge each other's policies, and we must also do so in a tough way, and if you do not want to, you should have done something else. I do not question that at all. However, the prerequisite for reaching agreements for the benefit of the Danes is that there is a confidential space when entering a negotiating room. If you do not have it, if you have doubts about whether it exists, then we cannot negotiate anything at all. After all, there needs to be room for oneself to be exposed, there needs to be room for one to play with open cards, and we do not really want to do that right now. I just have to say that as it is. What will the Prime Minister do to restore the confidence that is in a very small place right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225131320	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225131321	We are totally dependent on mutual loyalty when we sit in the negotiating room, and the best I can give is, of course, my word that nothing comes from the negotiating room, whether it is in the Ministry of Finance, where the negotiations are taking place, or indeed in the ongoing dialogue between Mr Tugendhat. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen and myself. What is between us in the political debate must, of course, be able to stay there. I also hope that you believe that no one has thought it differently. It is, of course, our job to prove that this is the case, and I will do my best to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225131403	The question is closed. Thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen. The next question is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225131410	Thank you for that, President. And, of course, I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for his introductory remarks. I'd like to stay on the same track as sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen and the Prime Minister have just referred to it, because I think that there is some extravagance here. Oh, come on. I'm sorry there's an e-mail. One could almost imagine saying: Oops! It was discovered. And you get a little bit of a feeling that it's such a half-hearted talk about reaching well, but the parties have to compete and so on, and what's really wrong with this e-mail? It is, of course, a script in how, in the course of a negotiation process, you should bother the parties you negotiate with. Here is the specific Left that has been mentioned. It is a script which tells us that information is being used which is being transmitted to them during the negotiations on the basis of the questions asked by the parties against the party itself. Now we have been here for a few years and negotiated many things in place, so we know very well that when you go into that negotiating room where you really have to reach each other and where it can be really, really difficult, it is absolutely crucial that there is confidence that you can move beyond the edge and that you can ask some questions, which may also be a little tricky, in relation to what you might think about it yourself, or do we not want to? It should then be known that such answers to such questions in such a course of negotiations are not used against oneself during the course of the negotiations, in other words against oneself in public. I just have to say that this script, which was now exposed in Jyllands-Posten yesterday, tells how the Social Democratic Party is going to use the material against in this case the Left, which has been mentioned, during the negotiations. The Prime Minister must then come up with a clearer stand against it, a clearer demonstration in this Chamber of what consequences it will have in relation to the way the government works. Otherwise, we're left with that feeling that yes, that is, ups, it was discovered; next time we'll just do it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225131601	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225131603	But that cannot be concluded on the basis of what I have said today. In fact, I said very clearly that it is not the e-mail itself that should be regretted, nor that it should be sent by mistake. That is the content, and that is the spirit behind it. Actually, that's exactly what I said. That is why my regret goes beyond the written word. For of course it must be the case that every thing has its time at Christiansborg. Now the questioner and I have discussed a great many things, and I am sure the questioner will also be able to confirm that a word has never been released from the negotiating room in which I have been sitting, because I myself am extremely concerned about it. Then there is a group that has sat and written some things together, and of course they should not do so, especially when there is no political mandate to work in this way. The responsibility for what is going on in the Social Democratic Party is always mine, and that is why I regret what has happened. But you cannot conclude from what I am saying that I am not taking it seriously. Because we are all totally dependent on the people's government being able to cooperate and that we can fight and we can discuss during the times and times when that is what it takes, and then we can also go into a room and be completely comfortable with each other and know that when we try things out, it will be in the room, and that is what I have my very clear commitment to do in these negotiations too, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225131717	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225131718	Well, then it's the PM we have to negotiate with. Because it is true that, when I have negotiated with the current Prime Minister, including in previous situations, I have not had the experience that things have not been kept confidential if necessary. But then you have to negotiate with the Prime Minister. The problem is that the Social Democrats in government have chosen to put quite a lot of officials into the ministries; they have chosen to hire quite a lot of people to help the Social Democrats in the political struggle against the rest of us who are constantly playing out. One might say that this is part of the political game, but the interesting thing for us is how these people are then used. And those people are being used in a way that the Prime Minister here today openly says is completely unsatisfactory.That's the content.That's the spirit of the e-mail, says the Prime Minister now. But if it is the spirit with which it is wrong, then there is something wrong with the whole spirit of the current work of the state administration in the light of the people whom the Social Democrats have chosen to take action to help themselves in the political struggle. What will the Prime Minister do to clean it up?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225131818	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225131819	No, one cannot conclude from one decision made by a small group of people that it is the whole spirit with which it is mad. We have already made a great many broad agreements, and the Danish People's Party is in many of them, and the Left is in many of them. I have not experienced any problems at all about these negotiations, and that, of course, should not be seen in the future either. There's been a mistake, I'm sorry. But to interpret it as if we have a general problem or, for that matter, we have employed many more people than have been employed by the previous government is not right either. We have made some changes and, of course, I am in favour of them. When mistakes are made and that is, whether it be myself, I am also going to make mistakes, I have made many mistakes in my life, or it is ministers, or it is employees, then ultimately responsibility is mine as party chairman and in this case also as prime minister, and therefore I am sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225131915	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for one last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225131918	But one can probably assume that it is often not such an ordinary official who is employed in the old spirit... the old way we have had it in Denmark... who immediately thinks: How can we use questions that are asked during a negotiation process against those with whom we negotiate along the way? I don't think that's the way it is. It is probably more the spin doctors who are increasingly being hired and increasingly with this government and are also being given more responsibility, because we have also discussed in the past the special adviser who has entered the Prime Minister's Office and whom the Prime Minister has taken to the Prime Minister's Office. She has set up a special department where he really has to find out how the spin doctors work around and also the other ministries, and he is sitting at the table of the Economics Committee and the Coordination Committee. We've discussed this. So these people have got a different and a bigger role under the Social Democracy in government than they have had in the past, and therefore it is interesting to see how they work; what happens when you let those people get the power that they seem to have been given. And then I would say that what the Prime Minister said just now was that the spirit of this e-mail, that is, how to work, was mad. So I just have to ask: what initiatives will the Prime Minister take to clear this up and convince us that this is not going to happen next time we have a debate with this government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225132032	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225132034	My word. In the end, that is what we have at Christiansborg, and that is why we must of course also think about how we behave towards each other, and it is therefore appropriate to deplore it. But Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has my word that we are negotiating in the way that a government should negotiate, and ultimately the responsibility for a negotiating climate lies with the government, and we must take this seriously. I would also like to say that one of the mistakes we have made in the process of playing out, and in the subsequent questions-answers in relation to equalisation, was about two different figures that were brought into a column. It was a traditional official who made that mistake. We are also responsible for this, but it is not because someone has wanted to destroy the negotiations. It happens, people make mistakes. If you see the error, you have the responsibility to correct it, and there's a complete commitment that we do it from here, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225132131	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225132134	If the matter referred to here in the previous questions is boring, then it is not just in relation to the very important issue of compensation that matters to the well-being of all Danes, or in relation to the relationship between the parties in here. I believe that what has caused people to gradually lose confidence in politics is in fact when it moves from being about the real to being about the war between the parties. That is why I would like to say with a change of theme here that I think there is another area where there is also a risk of the same, and that is, of course, that there has been a huge hope and expectation that we are now really moving ahead with the green transition. I also think that with the agreement on a climate bill before Christmas holidays we came a long way because so many parties joined it, and this helped to show that the momentum that exists in the population is perhaps also finally coming to Parliament. I find it extremely interesting to see how many people are reporting on the field, with concrete indications of how this can be done, right from the business community in the autumn and now at the latest this weekend, where we saw a number of economists being out showing how to achieve the 70% target. in a way that is as effective for the climate as possible and as gentle as possible for all the other things we also want to take care of, including that it does not cost us more money than is very necessary. What we are missing now is to show from in here politically that we are going to act, and there I have to say that there is uncertainty as to whether the many fine words and the great speeches really must be followed by action in this spring too. That is why I think it would be beneficial if the Prime Minister would tell us today when the government will present the climate action plan which should come immediately after the Climate Act and which should lead the way to the 70-percent target.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225132342	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225132343	Thank you for the question. I agree with a very, very large part of the analysis. There's been hope out there. We have a very good understanding paper. Now we have a very broad, at least broadly agreed, climate law. It will also have to be dealt with in the Chamber in the near future. The next major step is the climate action plan, or that, as Mr. Morten Østergaard and I have talked about it in reality enough is: climate action plans, because we need to dive into really, very many areas at the same time. I also understand the impatience and at least share part of it myself. We count and we work on life loose and want to get to work as soon as possible. It doesn't really matter what decisions we make. I know, sir. Morten Østergaard is very, very much in agreement with me. After all, we must ensure that we take the first significant steps towards reducing by 70%. We must have taken the decisions that will enable us to take the final blow in the years up to 2030, and we must have done it in a way that will benefit Danish industry and employment and not the opposite. It's just to mention some of the things. That is why we also need to see things in context. It's a relatively complicated exercise we're doing, but I'm very confident and feel just like Mr. Kim. Morten Østergaard. When I turned on the radio newspaper on Saturday morning, it was the plastic industry that was out saying: we have a lot of good ideas. And the climate partnerships are about to be reported, and there I think we will have a lot of good ideas, which we will then have to discuss, among other things. in the circle that is behind the Climate Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225132525	Sir. Morten Østergaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225132527	I think this is the most important task we have. In many ways, I also think it is the most interesting, because it is a fundamental transformation of our society that can be compared to epochs such as industrialisation or other similar transformations of our society. I think we are going to go a better place, where the Danes will live healthier, if they change their diet in a more climate-friendly direction, and if it is electric cars that are on the streets instead of fossil cars, there is less air pollution; where companies will do better because green competitiveness will be what determines future competition. There is everything possible to reach out for, and I think it will be better to live in a society that is still more CO2 that is why we also need to get going. And that is why I am actually left with an uncertainty that has only been exacerbated by that reply from the Prime Minister. For my question was the obvious one here 2 months into 2020: when will the government present its plan? Either it is because the Prime Minister will not say it, or it is because the Prime Minister does not know when the government will present its plan. And I don't know what I think is the worst of the two answers, and I really just hope that we could get some time to know here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225132636	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225132638	There is no reason to consider that I do not share the information I have and the idea of the process we have. After all, we are also in very close dialogue on this. Rather, we need to make sure that these are the right handles we get. After all, the Climate Council is about to come with their recommendation for a sub-target in 2025. There is, of course, reason to listen to that, because it has some bearing on what we must put first. After all, one of the most crucial and most difficult areas will be transport. That is where we are all awaiting the great Commission on the Cars set up by the previous government. So I agree with Mr. Morten Østergaard in that we can get started. We have already started with the Finance Act. However, we still need to calculate a number of things to be absolutely sure that we are using the tools that both benefit the climate most, but which also support the other considerations that we have, for example. That inequality should not just increase, that we should keep our hands on employment and that we should benefit business. And I actually think, sir. Morten Østergaard is right to do this in the right way, is the very beautiful vision also within reach, especially for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225132753	Sir. Morten Østergaard with the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225132755	What I am left with is the perception that this is the biggest and most important task or challenge we have. I simply cannot find a clue in what the Prime Minister says to reassure me that we are going to take it seriously in this spring or that something is going to happen immediately following on from the Climate Act, just as we anticipated it when we negotiated the very basis for the government's formation this summer. I would therefore just like to say that, for us, it is absolutely fundamental that there are no delusions or unnecessary sluggishness in the process now, but that the momentum there is is used to make the decisions that need to be taken in the wake of the government's presentation of its plan for how we can achieve the 70%. This is not something that cannot be done, because it has now been demonstrated by a number of other players. What we are waiting for is an invitation to get started, and fortunately there will be plenty of input. What the Prime Minister should reveal, if not in the first and second attempts, then here in the third attempt, is what the government's timetable is, so we have something to relate to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225132903	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225132905	The timetable is the one we have talked about on other occasions, namely that we must be really, really well working on the climate action plans this year, including this six-month period. This means that when we arrive at the summer break or whether we want to spend the 1st anniversary of the last parliamentary elections, we have made some important considerations and hopefully also made some important decisions. So I can comfort Mr. Morten Østergaard says that there are no deviants or unnecessary sluggishness in it. Now there are other tasks that are important, but we count and work on life loose to be absolutely sure that what we are going to play out to the parties benefits both the climate and also Denmark in the wider sense allerallerbest.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225132951	Thank you, sir. Morten Østergaard. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225132957	Ten years ago in 2010 SF made the first proposal to improve conditions for rape victims in Denmark. Unfortunately, we did not get this through in the Parliamentary Chamber... not surprisingly... and that is why I am particularly happy today, when the Prime Minister confirms that the government is now tabling a bill for consent. So thank you so much. I want to start by signing for that, because it makes me particularly happy, and sometimes you have to celebrate the small victories that come, even if it has taken ten years. But let's get to today or in fact yesterday because then VIVE came up with a new report that shows that there are great differences between the municipality and the municipality when it comes to our nursing home. Older The case calls it nursing home bingo, and it's about the very few hands that are in our nursing home to care for the elderly, especially at night. This is a trend which we have unfortunately seen for many years, and in particular for many years with bourgeois governments, savings have been made in the area of the elderly. This means that there are fewer hands for the most caring elderly. After all, we turned that development around with the latest municipal agreement, and we have also turned it around with the Finance Act, and we have put welfare on tax cuts and all that, but we are far from achieving that. I believe that the Prime Minister and I can agree quickly that it is unworthy of the elderly resident of the country that one night watchman can stand alone with 41 very different care-intensive elderly people. But what does the government intend to do about it? I would like to ask the Prime Minister what the government intends to do to ensure better and more dignified care for the elderly in the country's nursing home so that we can stop that nursing home bingo.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225133141	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225133145	I believe that we must keep our noses on the road and continue the good work we have already started together. A good and better agreement has been made with the municipalities and regions of the country than has been the tradition of all the years. We have together made a very good financial law, and unlike in the past, there is now a majority in Denmark that clearly and unequivocally says that we must cover the demographic move. When more children and more elderly people arrive, it should not just mean savings around the country's municipalities or hospitals; then it means that we commit ourselves from in here to ensuring that there is an economy to ensure welfare. It is the one that is crucial; so, is there money to run the welfare society that we want? Of course, compensation is also very relevant here. The second clue that I think is just as important is the proximity reform that we are also working on in the government and which I had the opportunity to discuss with the SF recently, because if we do not take responsibility and I think it will be difficult, but I am absolutely convinced that it is just as important to move our skilled sosus away from the computer and from the paperwork to the individual elderly, we will never be able to ensure an elderly care where there is time and where there is dignity. And it's the dignity I don't always think we're getting secured with the care of the elderly that we see today and it's our responsibility to get something done about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225133308	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225133309	I think that sounds reasonable and right, and I am also glad that in this financial law we are actually looking towards the lonely elderly to ensure that they have a more dignified daily life, since it is often those who do not get as much attention as others. But in addition to the fact that yesterday's VIVE report showed that there are challenges in our nursing homes, especially at night, another VIVE report has shown that we are also challenged in relation to our care for the elderly in general, that is, home help. People simply get less home help out there, and that is among other things. for cleaning and ordinary, basic stuff. And I agree that we can do a lot with a proximity reform; I agree that we can do a lot with better municipal agreements and with a better financial law. But what has been proposed so far is also with the welfare law, which the government hopefully will soon put forward, is, in fact, to follow the demographics, which means that we will be more older, but it will be within the same financial framework. Are there any further initiatives that the government believes need to take in order to increase it in addition to the funds we have? I recognise that we have had many years of savings in the area of the elderly with a bourgeois government, but I suppose we need to do more than just lift the demographics.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225133419	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225133421	Yes, we do. And what we need, in my view, first and foremost is to have the public sector saddled up so that we do not continue to employ staff who have nothing to do with the citizen. And now we are discussing police, and what has happened in the police is, of course, comparable to what has happened in the area of the elderly, and with what has also happened in parts of health, namely that, as the years have passed, we have hired more and more people who have nothing to do with the citizen, who works in the public sector, but are working on everything that lies around what is core welfare. And we can only really get time delivered in the care of the elderly on the day we as Parliament dare to regulate differently to lead instead of managing and saying that we do not actually need the documentation, and no, we do not need our employees to spend 1 hour or 2 in average when they are employed in the care of the elderly to sit behind a computer screen. In fact, we would rather have them with the elderly. So when I'm asked what it's really going to be, beyond the welfare economy, where we've started, the answer is to get the employees away from those computers and away from that paperwork.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225133533	Then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for one last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225133535	But we must also recognise that it requires more funding. So when we're talking about one night shift to 41 residents, it's obvious that there should probably be more than one present, especially if one person is so busy with computer work. I don't think there's any possibility of that on such a night shift. So I agree. And I can also see in the City of Copenhagen that some of it, SF's former health mayor, Mrs Ninna Thomsen, succeeded in removing the smartphones for sosu assistants and sosu assistants, not because they were not allowed to have a phone, but because they were not to hang themselves in the minute tyranny and instead get the profession back. So I'm in on the trend, but what's the next step to get there? Because we have written in the understanding paper that we would like to have more confidence and less control. What, then, must the next step be?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225133624	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225133626	In fact, I have also followed the experience of Copenhagen in this area, and I think that is one of the things we need to look into more. We are working on our concrete proposals in the proximity reform, and that is one of the things we very, very much want to discuss, also in depth, with the parties of the Folketing. Because, although I think that sometimes there is a tendency for local municipal demands to be made which are unnecessary in terms of bureaucracy, a very, very large part of the responsibility lies in this House for the bureaucracy that has been done by the public sector. If I am asked directly whether I believe that one night shift is enough for 41 elderly carers and you are caring when you are at a care centre, or else you do not come as a starting point there today, then the answer is no. I do not see how it is possible to provide there the closeness, the well-being and the security that, of course, there must be in the care of the elderly. So there's something that's not good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225133726	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Then we move on to Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225133734	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the Prime Minister for confirming our agreement that we should have a consent-based rape legislation. I say this because there has been some confusion about this after the Criminal Code Council has made their recommendation, which is not just about its being consent-based, but is based on the concept of voluntaryness. They also go through the material difference, so it is important to keep that in mind. We look forward to the negotiations on the basis of the Prime Minister's comments here today. Then I would like to talk about the weather or perhaps more about the fact that it is not quite as usual. Because we've had some rough weather in Denmark in recent months. We see floods in several places in Denmark; houses that are underwater; dikes that break; sandbags that are found by the municipalities. We've also had one of the hottest winters for 100 years. At home with me, the tulips have come out of the ground, and cherry trees have sprung out, and we are still gone in February. Climate change is happening right up in our faces every day. This is not just something that happens far away with big forest fires thousands of miles away. This is also happening right up in the face of us here in Denmark. I am pleased that we have managed to agree on a 70-percent reduction target. I think it is a huge victory that we have reached that agreement on the Climate Act. Now all we have to do is start negotiations on a climate action plan, because it needs to be implemented. Those negotiations haven't started yet. Can the Prime Minister tell us when those negotiations start?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225133918	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225133919	May I not say first of all in relation to it with consent: what forms the basis of the understanding paper • and we are loyal to it in all terms is consent. That is what the four parties have agreed. Then we have now received the report from the Criminal Law Council, which, as Mrs Pernille Skipper also says, actually places more emphasis on volunteering. Of course, I think there is reason to hear what they are saying, and there is also reason to look at what comes into the consultation phase. However, I think that what we should concentrate our efforts on when we start negotiations on how the bill should look is the experience of the surrounding countries. Some work with what is called voluntaryness, and others with consent. The crucial thing for us seems to me to be to provide the best protection for the victims of rape. However, the starting point is a law of consent, just as we have agreed in the past. In relation to climate, I expect that we will achieve a great deal this year, including in the first half of the year. I do not have a date I can set on when the negotiations will begin, but I promise that we will hurry up everything we can. And there is no change on the part of the government, either in terms of the importance of work or in terms of urgency. Because we have the joint task of using this parliamentary term not only to get started in the area of climate change but also to get started on these climate action plans with the Finance Act and the Research Bill and with the adoption of a Climate Act. So we hurry up everything we can at all, and we must be well done before we go on summer vacation. I very, very much agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225134103	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225134105	Well, it's a good thing that the government is hurrying and all due respect that it takes time to plan a course of negotiations. And it is also very exciting with the climate partnerships that the government has entered into. I fully understand that we cannot solve this in an afternoon. Of course. But the task is growing, the longer we wait. In the understanding paper we agreed that we should make a climate law by the end of 2019. We got it all worked out, because in the end, at least, there was an agreement on a climate bill. And then the understanding paper says that immediately afterwards we will have to embark on the negotiations on the action plan. After all, we did so because that 70-percent objective cannot be resolved in a single afternoon. This involves a transformation of our entire society over the next 10 years. We cannot just start researching more and wait for a quick fix to come, because we do not have time for that. We must start to change agriculture. We need to start changing our transport sector. Industry must move to sustainable energy. Well, we really, really need a lot. So could the Prime Minister not confirm that there is a reason why we said that it should be immediately after, because the longer the time that passes, the harder the task becomes?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225134235	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225134236	Yes, I can do that, and I think that what we put together in the understanding paper was incredibly wise, that is, first a climate law and then a climate action plan or plans. Because as Mrs. Pernille Skipper reports to Mr. Morten Østergaard also said that it is a huge structural change in Danish society that we are facing if we are going to achieve it. And we have to get to the finish line, and we want to get to the finish line. That is, of course, the beauty, I think, of the new political majority, that is to say that climate is not something we talk about as something secondary or something down on the task list, but that is actually one of our priorities together. Immediately thereafter I hope that is still valid, and I can hardly answer anything other than that we work and count on high pressure. Mrs Pernille Skipper says this in reality herself, namely that these are very, very big changes, and these are very big decisions. And of course our responsibility is also, when we meet the parties of the Folketing, that we have a basis for decision that is as good as possible. So it is really only to treat it properly and materially heavy enough. There's nothing in it but that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225134347	Thank you. Mrs Pernille Skipper for her last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225134350	The consequences we face, if we are not able to carry out this task, are extreme. Some scientists would say that we can expect hundreds of millions of climate refugees. This means that if we do not take this seriously, we will face the risk of global chaos. It is really a question of the lives of future generations and their ability to live in orderly conditions on the planet. This is the greatest political challenge of our time, and we will be three months away from the conclusion of the agreement on a climate change law without seeing a call or a schedule or anything about the climate action plan. I have to conclude by saying that I think this is actually serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225134453	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225134455	But I think that what is the strength of Denmark is that I think we are going to deliver. Where other countries, either because of inadequate political decisions or because of the way in which society is built, find it harder to achieve the climate objective, we have the prerequisites for doing so. I think that what is the strength now is that we have an understanding paper that is as ambitious as it is. We have made a very good budget law, set aside more money for research, and we have agreed on a climate bill. We need to get it adopted in a moment. And we have also received the strongest possible commitment, not only from our people, who came before many of us, but also from the Danish business community in relation to wanting to take part in the task. What is now our task is to tie these things together so that we can also make the best and the smartest and the long-term decisions. It may take longer than some people think it should take. I also hope, of course, that this will be understood, among other things. in the area of taxation requires rather heavy calculations and we must be sure that what we are putting forward is correct. But I do share political impatience.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225134604	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. The question is over, and then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225134610	Thank you. When people ask me about politicians at Christiansborg, I always say that all my colleagues in the Folketing want the best for Denmark. We just disagree about what's best. And that is why, of course, it also makes me infinitely sad if everything we have seen over the last few days is going to be about process and about: How can we sit in a negotiating room and shoot at each other behind? And, of course, I am thinking of a whole series of other negotiations that we will be in shortly. It really annoys me. Now I am not the type of person who, every other day, shoots with sharpness in the political debates. It's not my style, it's not the way I am at all. I just have to take up the whole process of the compensatory reform, because I think there is something here that has simply not been right in relation to the way we work. There is too much under the surface which I do not think is clear. And with all due respect, I think the Prime Minister has been too clever. There has simply been too much script about the presentation of this. Well, before we even knew the proposal, you had to tell them that there are some evil, rich people in Gentofte, and don't worry, everyone, they're gonna pay it all for you, so all of you who are missing something in the rest of Denmark can sit back calmly. I don't think that's right, that's what divides our society. Everyone is in favour of equalisation in Denmark. I do not know anyone who is not in favour of equalisation. But there are also some who are paying a lot today. The Conservative People's Party is not only Denmark's third largest mayor party, we are also Denmark's third largest municipal party. And when, of course, we say at the beginning of set meetings that we cannot see ourselves in this, unless there is a substantial change, and that, of course, we go to it, yes, we are out of the negotiations before they get started. That's too bad. We have now asked 47 questions about the government's own equalisation proposal and we have received an answer to one. I don't think that's okay. I'm also saying this because the government won't disclose the calculations behind it. No government officials in the municipalities, politicians or anyone else can find out what is there. They know they get paid or have to get rid of money, but why don't they know? And unless you've called Per Nikolaj Bukh to change his mind, shouldn't we follow his suggestion to present a new model, get it kicked to the corner and get it done properly? Does the Prime Minister understand that it can look just as smart, and why don't you put it all forward from the start?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225134834	Thank you. Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225134835	Now I'm gonna have to ask you something the other way. For can the questioner confirm that the previous government did not put forward anything at all, that under the previous government, when we negotiated compensation because I was in the room, there was no proposal? And can the questioner confirm that this government has put more into technology than the previous government? The answer to both questions is yes. And when we negotiated compensation last and it is of course a difference to today that the government said: there has been a committee of officials, and on that basis we start the negotiations. And then at the meetings, we were told about where to go. There we have chosen, contrary to that, to put it all forward. The political intention, and I am in favour of it, and then the calculations underlying the proposal that has been made are quite the opposite of the way in which we work. And I totally agree that we have to stand by too much. However, as one of the few politicians who has tried to negotiate compensation under this government and the previous one, I just have to say that the previous government was conspicuous by not putting forward a proposal at all that anyone could count on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225134948	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225134950	That was an incredibly interesting answer, which I will not give the Prime Minister the opportunity to go into, because I would very much like to discuss it at a later stage. Because I think that is an absurd representation of what is going on here. But let us now go into the substance. While we only get drip-swipe and these incomplete information about the matter, let me take a few examples. After some pressure, the government has then announced that a social-democratic municipality should take an example; it could be Rødovre, it could be Brøndby or other • must have more money to integrate an immigrant than if the very same immigrant lived in Esbjerg or Silkeborg. I am not talking here about foreigners counting in compensation. I am just talking about saying in relation to the metropolitan area: there is such extra money that you need to have equalisation. Well, obviously it must be very difficult for mayors in Brøndby and Ishøj and others to integrate the same foreigners as in Silkeborg and Esbjerg. Does the Prime Minister think that there is a factual and professional reason for that difference? Or is it politically motivated?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225135054	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225135055	I very much believe that there is both a factual and a professional justification, and, most importantly, there is a recognition in this House of the fact that we have pursued a completely failed immigration policy. And there are a few municipalities in Denmark that are allowed to take almost all the garbage. Now I say it as directly as I possibly can. If we look at the capital today, it is totally unequally distributed who has the integration task. After all, it is clumped together in some selected municipalities, while in all respect there are also party municipalities, which neither historically nor contemporaryly nor in the future assume a particularly large share of the responsibility for integration. And in relation to the ordinary people who live in Brøndby or Ishøj, where there are many with non-western backgrounds: their children must also have a good primary school, their old mother and father must have a proper care center, and the children's families who go down to the library must be able to borrow a book. Surely we have to recognise that a failed immigration policy and a failed integration policy have directly put themselves in what our country looks like today, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225135158	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, final question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225135159	I think that is a very interesting answer. This means that if you have foreigners in Vollsmose and in Gellerupparken, you can handle this challenge more easily than if you have it in Brøndby and Ishøj. Because apparently they need more money than you have to get the other two places super interesting! Finally, I find it hard to believe that the surgical precision with which the social democratic western municipalities receive more money is random. We can also see that the government has introduced a parameter that a municipality should also receive subsidies according to how many general housing a municipality has. It is a type of housing in which I live, by the way, and I do not know if I am asking for a special subsidy, perhaps I do. But where is the factual and professional reason why a municipality should receive subsidies according to the number of general housing units, rather than according to who lives in it? It should be after who lives in it instead. That should be looked at instead of trying to see that the traditional social democratic municipalities have built very generally, so let us find a way to give them more money. Can't the Prime Minister understand that we are some people who think that this seems incredibly surgically accurate in relation to which municipalities should have some more money?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225135305	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225135306	No, I cannot, and just two things in relation to the housing issue: one is that, in our proposal, we attach greater importance to housing that has a poor standard in rural areas. Because, in relation to the problems associated with cheap rentals, there may be problems associated with it, namely that you get a greater concentration of people who are challenged for one reason or another, and this may be true in the private rental sector, but of course it is true in the general housing sector that it is of no use that we are standing today in 2020 and trying to deceive someone in this Parliament that in the municipalities where there is a very high proportion of general housing there are no more social problems as well. Because the fact is that a number of municipalities around the capital do not have very many general housing, do not have very many refugees, do not assume much of the integration responsibility and do not have very many early retirement, whereas there are other municipalities in this country that for many different reasons are more challenged because their citizens are more challenged. And, of course, compensatory reform must take this into account, whether it is a geographical challenge or a social challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225135421	Thank you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen. I'd like to say to Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen and Mr. Christian Juhl, that sounds a little loud from down there. Let's move on to the question line. And then it's sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225135437	Thank you. My first question is about mutual dependants. Mutually dependent persons are originally a 1920 law, which has then been adjusted on a number of occasions and which means that cash benefits and early retirement and pensioners are taken into income if their boyfriend or spouse has a job. This is happening, for example. for Maria Rubin Nicolajsen and Kristian Rubin Nicolajsen. They live in High Taastrup; they love each other; they are married. Unfortunately, the existing rules mean that Maria will be drawn up to DKK 7,000. a month because Kristian works as a garbageman. Maria's an early retirement because she's suffering from a disc slip. Her disks in her back just crumble. She has both prosthetic and tripod in her back. And as the PM can imagine, it's sometimes a tough everyday life for Maria. Extra hard, however, because Maria, like many other Danes, has to be deducted from income because her husband has a job. I don't think that's fair. We do not think that is fair in the alternative. But what does the Prime Minister think? Does the Prime Minister think it is reasonable that people including many sick, exposed and poor Danes should be deducted from income because their spouse or girlfriend has a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225135557	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225135558	First of all, I would like to bid Mr. Torsten Gejl welcome to the debates we have every now and then in the Parliamentary Chamber. And we're excited to hear that I can say on behalf of everyone to the cooperation here. I would actually like to say two things: firstly, I have no doubt that life can be difficult for Maria on the basis of what has been said here. Secondly, I would like to say that mutual support is an old principle of Danish social legislation which is basically based on something, I think, quite wisely, namely that we are building a country on the principle that we should be able to support ourselves. And if you can't support yourself, we have a responsibility for each other as marriage mates and cohabitants. And then society has a responsibility. That is why we have the mutual dependent. It goes back many years and I think it has a core of something I would like to target. This does not mean that there can be no examples where there are people who are having a hard time and who are getting stuck. I understand that very much. However, I think we should stick to the principle of mutual dependency.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225135712	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225135713	Thanks for the warm welcome. After all, Parliament has just considered a citizens' proposal on the abolition of mutual dependents. The citizens' proposal is, in fact, the most popular proposal ever, in that it is now the proposal that has received most signatures. And on Thursday, I called the Minister of Finance and Employment in consultation on the matter because the government rejected the citizens' proposal on the grounds that it was supposed to cost 12.3 billion. kr. the abolition of mutual dependants for pensioners and early retirement pensioners. According to a reply from the Minister for Finance, however, the price is 460 million. kr., which has to be said to be a lot lower. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister if these figures could prompt the government to reconsider its position. There are also dynamic effects and various derived savings and revenues that could be expected. And if that's not the case, what will the government do to make sure it doesn't get too expensive for these people to fall in love? Because I do not assume that the Social Democrats think it is okay when it turns out that many sick and vulnerable Danes cannot actually afford to live with the one they love.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225135823	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225135825	Well, I think that what is at the root of the question is that it is bad that we also have a responsibility to each other and I do not think it is. And I mean right into my foundation that you have to support yourself and that every morning you have to wake up and think: what can I contribute to this society? Because that's the only way we can make a society work. Then you can be prevented from doing so for periods, and too much, very few people will be able to do so for a lifetime. But the starting point will have to be that you work and support yourself and that you have a responsibility when you live together as a family or as a marriage partner before the rest of us have that responsibility. And that is why the argument for us as a government for not wanting to abolish the mutual allowance is not primarily an economic one. Moreover, there is one, but that is not the main thing. It is, in fact, that I think it is a basic principle of soundness that we set up our legislation so that as many people as possible can handle things themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225135928	Sir. Torsten Gejl for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225135930	Thank you. We have a tradition of asking our members in the alternative a question to the Prime Minister every time we have these rounds. Our members relate a great deal to spray poisons. This weekend you could read about how spray poisons end up in our groundwater and our drinking water. The members of the alternative are very concerned about this development. That is why they want to know what the Prime Minister will do to secure our groundwater, for example. whether the government will support proposals banning or phasing out the use of pesticides.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225140002	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225140004	First of all, thank you for the question, including to Members, and I think it is a very, very relevant question to ask. In my view, what we see in relation to, among others, is quite unacceptable. illegal pesticides that reach our groundwater. It is, of course, one of the most important resources we have as a society, so we need to take better care of that. I know that the Minister for the Environment is working on this issue both in the contract circle behind the pesticide strategy and in collaboration with Danish Agriculture. For agriculture must take responsibility for this; politically, of course, we must also take responsibility for taking better care of our groundwater than is the case today. So thank you for that question too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225140052	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. The question is over. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225140100	Thank you for the floor. • We must take action to counteract fragmentation and a Denmark that breaks over. ▪ This is how the Prime Minister of Jutland-Posten wrote a few years ago, and in New Citizens we are in complete agreement. Denmark must be united from north to south and from east to west. It costs to tie an island kingdom together, but it is a national task and it is a task that we must shoulder together. In the middle of Denmark is a bridge that a previous generation of politicians have been so sensible to build the Storebælt Bridge. The users of the Storebælt Bridge had to pay for the bridge, and they have done so several times since the opening. Nevertheless, the state still collects user charges because, contrary to the intention, politicians have time and again raised the money that should go to pay for the bridge and spent it on something else. There is otherwise a broad consensus that a payment bridge between the parts of the country is an economic barrier. An analysis from Funen Business some years ago showed that Danish society would be 9 billion. kr. richer by abolishing payment. It is, moreover, misleading to call it user charges, because the users have in fact today a domestic customs wall which prevents the Danes from trading freely and moving freely. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister, on the basis of the Prime Minister's own words, whether it is not time for us to remove the internal customs wall on the Storebælt Bridge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225140247	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225140249	I've heard the Storebælt Bridge speak as much, but never as an inner customs wall. And yes, I do understand the principle that it is a debate that keeps coming back, so that there is a desire that it should not cost to drive across the Storebælt Bridge. And as a Social Democrat, I am not an enthusiastic supporter of user charges, so I understand the whole reasoning. But there is a relatively large debt in this very, very important piece of infrastructure still gone, and on the basis of all the other issues which have been more or less costly, we have no plans to be able to do what is demanded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225140330	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225140331	Thank you for your answer. It is, unfortunately, predictable. Changing governments have always needed to spend more of the Danes' money, and I understand that this government is not very different in this respect. But the fact is that when the state spends more of the Danes' money, the whole society becomes poorer. That's how it works with taxes. For once, the overall picture could not be taken into account here. Calculations from Funen Business show that if we abolish this customs wall on Storebælt, politicians get some 48 billion. kr. less to use loose of, but on the other hand the Danes over time get a prize of 57 billion. kr. So that's a total gain of 9 billion. kr. to the community, as the Prime Minister says no to • and it is also a no to counteract the fragmentation of Denmark. I have to ask once again whether this does not give the Prime Minister an opportunity to think twice about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225140433	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225140434	It's always good to think twice about it. I do not agree with it when we collect taxes and spend that money on something sensible that we then make the Danes poorer. For example, when we have got rid of some of the savings in education by the new majority, it is, in my view, an investment in Denmark, that is something that benefits our children and young people, but also something that benefits Danish business. Well, the answer is quite simple and very real political, namely that I do not have the money to make this decision. And I think I am looking into some steps where we need resources, for example. in the area of climate change. So we don't have any plans for that, and of course I'm on the goal of removing the user fee on Storebælt. So we're not there yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225140526	Mrs Pernille Vermund, on the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225140528	Thank you for your answer. This means that the Danes will have to adapt to pay customs duties for many years to come to cross their own country, and that is sad indeed. Let me move on to something else and start with a short quote: "It is totally unfair that we have one municipality here in Denmark, where you have separated it in the middle and where you have to pay to move from one end to the other. ▪ That is what happened in the election campaign by the Prime Minister's party colleague, the Foreigner's rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, about the new Crown Princess Mary's Bridge in Frederikssund. It is a bridge that, like the Storebælt Bridge, is an internal customs wall with user charges. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund has shown himself to have a very good sense of where social democracy should place itself in the foreign debate, and I would like to commend him for that. I also think he has a good feeling about this case. Does the Prime Minister agree with his party colleague that it is totally unfair that there is a user charge on the bridge through Frederikssund?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225140629	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225140631	I can at least reveal so much that I was recently on those edges and noted that there were significantly more cars on the old bridge than on the new one. Actually, I don't think there was anyone there. Well, I'm not going to take the principle view that there has to be user fees to transport around in your own country. Some specific decisions have been taken so that we could build a Storebælt bridge at all, which has meant a user fee, and I fully acknowledge that. I would say that, as originally North Jutland, I remember how it was with the train across the country and how to jump off and over on the ferry etc. to get to Copenhagen. Well, there are very, very many reasons to be happy that we have a Great Belt Bridge. And that requires a user fee, and we can live with that very well, and that also applies to the specific proposal. However, that does not mean that, in general, we think that there should be user charges for our infrastructure.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225140731	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225140741	Thank you. I would like to talk about the good children's life. I also know that I am concerned about the Prime Minister, who was also one of the main arguments for adding more educators to the day institutions. So far, according to Kraka, it has become an extra educator for every 185th child, but hopefully more will come over time. I agree with the government that it is crucial for good children's life that there are well-functioning day-care institutions, where adults have the time and the money to be present with children, but we have a sad tendency towards politically, when we talk about good children's life, to forget what is most important, namely that there is time for play, presence, care and enjoyment with the people who mean the most, and that is, after all, mother and father. Because even though most families need the care of the little ones, I do, too, because otherwise I wouldn't be able to stand here today, it's love in the family, quality time with mom and dad, that's what gives us solid ground under our feet, and it can't be replaced by public care, so to speak. After all, Denmark is the country in the world that places children at the longest time in the institution, and by the way, one of the countries where Mom and Dad work the most full-time and are away from the children. And it is a bit the children who pay the price for the way we have organised society, and I just wanted to know whether the Prime Minister agrees that if you want to promote good children's life, you must also have a look at the family, you must also have a look at the possibility of more time with mother and father and not just more time with the educators. Would it really be too much to demand that, when we talk politically about good children's life, we look at initiatives that guarantee families more freedom for short periods or for that matter for longer periods to work a little less to spend more time with children in the early years of life? I have a number of specific proposals for this, but I would really like to hear whether there is a consensus in principle that promoting good children's life is not just about more public employees; it is also about the children having more time with their mother and father; that is, after all, what matters in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225140944	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225140946	First of all, I think we should be clear when the questioner is cheerful that we are now starting to translate some 500 million. kr., and says that it is not enough for the Liberal Alliance to vote against the proposal to allocate the 500 million. kr. to the children's area. I am certainly no stranger to the discussion that the good life of children is, of course, not something we organise as part of the welfare society in Denmark, it is part of it. I am one of those who is pleased that both men and women in Denmark go to work. That is one of the reasons why we are a rich country and that we have a rather high level of gender equality, and that means, of course, that there must then be good day care for children, because at the same time, as in other countries, we do not want a lot of people to fit them to perhaps not so high wages. In this way, we have made quite typical Nordic. I would always like to share in discussing a better balance between work and family life. I know the problem, too, from my own life. But I hope we can do so on the premise that it is not someone else who has to pay for someone to make the choice that the questioner may want them to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225141054	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225141056	No, it is somewhere about giving families greater freedom and more welfare rights. One can look at how to ensure better opportunities to use your spouse's deductions as one, and one could ensure that the money follows the child, so that the allowance you have for the day care institution can actually also be given if you care for your child at home, if you are not publicly supported, because it should not just be a supplement to have children without having a job. These are two ways of giving families more freedom, and those who so want to spend more time with their children for a period of time, and that is something that ensures a better life for children. Is it something that the government could be willing to look at, or is it only about the fact that it is only the system that can deliver the increased type of welfare? I understand that it may well be that there are some mothers who use that freedom to work a little less for a period of time, so that they have happier children, so that they have a better life for themselves and so that the family becomes happier. Then there is no problem, and that is not a problem for equality either. In this debate on equality, I think it was a rather strange thing, because it was as if the aim of women was to give priority to careers as much over the family as men do, but it is, of course, the men who are mad at it somewhere in that context. So what is actually the main argument for looking at ensuring more freedom for families so that they can work less, be more with children, even if it may create some lack of equality?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225141209	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225141210	The choice of how to adapt can be made in a sovereign way within the individual family. I guess I was wondering where the question was going. Alex Vanopslagh It's not a trick). Yes, it is a little, because it always sounds like that, that you could just as well. That is actually why I started by saying that as long as others do not have to pay for it. One has always been able to make the choice to say that one gets off the so-called race, or whatever one would say, to go home, but I think one should pay for that oneself. I am also opposed to the fact that a number of women with a non-Western background have come to Denmark and are not part of the labour market because they would rather be at home with their children or because their husbands do not think they should go to work. I am against both gender equality and integration, and I do not want to finance it either. So I would like to contribute to discussing a proper balance, but our starting point will be that this is something you should be able to finance yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225141311	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh with the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225141312	Yes, yes, excuse me, but that is just talk, because the government's policy is to grant subsidies to immigrant families who are not working but have children, so there you have given direct subsidies to go home with the children. My policy is to get rid of it by paying less in taxes, which means that some people work more well, but it will also mean that some people spend more time with their children, and they will use the increased freedom. One of the reasons why there are families who do not feel they have enough time with the children is that the slightly square should run the sun black for the high tax burden. Knowing that the Prime Minister is genuinely concerned to ensure better children's lives, I would like to ask frankly whether it would not be sensible to look at reforms that provide more flexibility. And yes, it acts among other things. about taxes, and it is also about the money being able to follow the child, so that you can get more quality time with Mom and Dad, because that is what gives a good child life, and not just more educators. Then we are fully in favour of setting up the system in such a way that it does not just become a subsidy to go home as immigrant women who are unemployed, because that is the policy pursued by the government and I disagree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225141408	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225141410	But we could also turn it around and think that most of us would actually like to work and contribute positively to this society and be with our children, and that most of us are constantly moving in the dilemma of how we are properly present in both places and meet the demands of the labour market, but also what it means to take responsibility as parents, and that instead of starting to tax favouritism, as I understand the questioner is asking for, we have a discussion about how we organise a working life so that it actually takes into account the periods in which we need to be more flexible, for example. when we have smaller children. This is a much-needed discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225141451	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh, thank you to the Prime Minister. So we wait just three minutes before we start the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225141714	We'll resume the meeting. From a member of the Folketing, Jens Joel, who is on leave, I have been informed that, from 29 February 2020 onwards, he will be able to rejoin the Parliament. Dorthe Hindborg's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. Today there are the following reviews: Jacob Mark (SF) m. fl.President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). B-94 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the strengthening of leisure facilities for children and young people in Denmark). Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Karsten Hønge (SF), Martin Lidegaard (RV) and Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT): Motion for a resolution No. B 95 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of a fast track system in Greenland). Marie Krarup (DF) and others: Question No. F 50 (What can the Minister say about parents' ability to look after their young children at home in today's Denmark and about the status of research that highlights the importance of institutional care for children's development and the possibility of doing well later in life compared to home care?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20200225141808	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225141918	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There is a proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 56 by Marie Bjerre (V), Anne Paulin (S), Hans Kristian Skibby (DF), Ida Auken (RV), Signe Munk (SF), Henning Hyllested (EL), Orla Østerby (KF) and Torsten Gejl (ALT), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 103 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF and ALT), against 5 (NB and LA), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 56 adopted. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225142020	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225142035	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 88 (S, V, DF, SF, KF, NB and LA), against 21 (RV, EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225142103	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225142121	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2-4 member of the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (V, KF and LA), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 50 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 59 (S, RV, SF, EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). It has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 7 - Accession to the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. The next item is a first reading, which is why we are giving the opportunity to leave the Chamber in peace and quiet.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225142312	The debate is open. Sir. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225142331	Thank you for that, President. Today we are dealing with four legislative proposals, all of which relate to the security and security package put forward by the government in the autumn, and the whole purpose of these legislative proposals is, after all, to strengthen the police's ability to solve crime quickly. That's one of them. a response to some of the developments we have seen in the crime picture, where crime is being made, particularly in the context of organised crime, which is quite serious and which is also flowing across borders, and that is why it is also in relation to what we have seen with the temporary border controls that we have made against Sweden. The legislative proposal is therefore both about ensuring that the police can quickly and effectively solve the crime that has occurred, but can also act in relation to the crime that is going on. After all, what we saw with the terrible terrorist act in Copenhagen in 2015 was that television surveillance was at the heart of solving it and persecuting the terrorist who ran around the streets of Copenhagen, and we have also seen other examples of how television surveillance has been absolutely essential in order to solve crime quickly. We saw it in connection with the bombing of the Danish Tax Authority, where TV images also helped to quickly charge people. What we are proposing with this bill is to extend access to the use of television surveillance, both on public buildings, but also, in other words, to allow private individuals, on the basis of an approved list, to use television surveillance and also on a larger area than is the case today. At the same time, the security industry estimates that we have up to a million and a half cameras hanging in the whole country. What we are also proposing with this bill is to ensure that the voluntary registration, which today can be made in what is called POLCAM, is made compulsory in the future, so that the police also know where these cameras are hanging, and therefore do not need to spend disproportionate time finding out who really owns a camera and where there is a camera in case it becomes necessary. Then it is also possible for the police, in specific cases, to allow private persons to conduct television surveillance to a certain extent and that, in some cases, recordings with personal data may also be kept for longer than the current 30 days. The Social Democratic Party naturally supports the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225142641	Thank you. There are brief comments, first from Mr. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225142646	Thank you. This is a very important bill. There is no doubt about that at all. There are, of course, currently limits for operators or public authorities in relation to distance and number of meters when camera monitoring is to be set up, and this will then be raised from 10-15 metres to several hundred metres. This is, of course, a fairly large extension, and I would therefore like to ask you something that the rapporteur indicated on the ubiquitous social media Twitter earlier today, when the rapporteur said that it was only in the case of particularly serious crime that could, as it were, be allowed to set up cameras at hundreds of metres away. Does the rapporteur not agree that in L 102 there are no limits to what paragraphs or what kind of crime is needed to put them at such a distance?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225142739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225142742	Now there can be people who follow this legal process from home, or you can read it afterwards, and that is why it is a little bit agreeable to stand and talk about a debate between Mr. Kristian Hegaard and myself on Twitter. When I commented on this, it was because the interpretation of the radical rapporteur was, like, that we could now keep track of all the people, and then I think my point was that if you went down and borrowed a book from the library, it is not the case that the authorities are sitting and watching. It is still the case that a court order is needed to obtain access to that material, and that means that in order to obtain such a court order there must be a reasonable suspicion that something criminal has taken place.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225142820	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225142821	You could say that. But what really is the epoch-making difference with this new bill is that, as soon as you get out of your door, you can be subject to surveillance. It is only private homes where there is now a restriction. So, in this way, if you add up the recordings of the various operators or public authorities and if you gain access to that which unauthorized people gain access to the complete movement of others. What does the rapporteur think of this? Is that an increase in security? Or what does the rapporteur think of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225142854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225142857	No, it is not the case that, as a privateman or as an unauthorized person, you can just have access to television surveillance. This proposal does not alter the fact that it is the police who, with a court order in hand and therefore also on the basis of a very concrete assessment and a reasonable suspicion, must be able to access the material. So that doesn't really change.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225142916	Then it's Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225142919	I am, of course, convinced, like the Socialist rapporteur, that television recordings are an effective means of investigation for the police, and that is why we must of course also ensure that they have the opportunity to have recordings. However, I think this bill goes too far. Today it is the case that private people are allowed to monitor areas at most 10-15 metres away. With this proposal, it's going to be up to 200 meters away. That means, for example, that people in the United Kingdom, for example, do not have the right to vote in local elections. a pedestrian street, where there is a store, will hardly be able to know for sure, compared to where surveillance is taking place. And normally you want to sign it so that the citizens can avoid it here. At any rate, I foresee a situation in which public space will be very, very limited for those who do not want to be monitored. Does the rapporteur himself not think that this proposal goes too far and can the rapporteur give me an explanation as to why it should be demonstrated that 200 metres away can be monitored?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225143024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225143026	No, I don't think it's going too far. The situation we looked back with Omar El-Hussein, who ran around the streets of Copenhagen, was I think 70-75 percent. of the TV cameras that the police got access to were either illegally hung up or hung up illegally. Of course, it also gave a discussion of what the scope and extent of this is. It is still the case, as I said just now, that if you are to have access to it as an external party, then there must be a court order. It is true that we are expanding the area, but we also stress that these cameras are not allowed to point directly into people's houses or gardens. Otherwise, if you take what the security industry says for good goods, i.e. that there are one and a half million cameras hanging, then I think that some of what is also positive about this proposal is that we now have to register and make it compulsory that the operator we are mentioning here should hang up the camera so that we also get into a field where we also make sure that these cameras are legal and are also hanging responsibly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225143131	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225143133	I do not think I fully realized why it is necessary to allow surveillance of 200 metres away. I think this is a serious interference in the freedom of citizens to move in public spaces. It gets very limited by the number of meters. When the rapporteur is concerned about the fact that cameras have to hang legally, I would like to ask the rapporteur why it has been decided not to introduce an authorisation in connection with the police's new mandatory register, because if the person hanging a camera has a licence, then we will also ensure that the camera is legally hung up and then we will avoid the situation under Omar El-Hussein.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225143215	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225143216	We can discuss that. I must honestly say that I have not been involved in detailed discussions on this. But part of the fact that it has to be registered, as I also said, is moving into a field where we have better control of the cameras that are there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225143236	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mrs Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225143248	Thank you. In the Left, as in all other parties, I believe that guilty people will be convicted and innocent people will be acquitted. There is no doubt that camera monitoring can often be a very good tool and evidence for precisely this objective. On the other hand, of course, we do not want in the Left, and I do not think that other parties want us to be a surveillance society where every step and every action is monitored and documented. When you look at the proposal here, you have to say that we are going somewhat further in relation to the opportunities for private businessmen to monitor, but also, of course, for the opportunities of the public authorities. The balance between crime-clearing and privacy is, of course, the balance that we have to strike and we think that we need to be very carefully balanced. We in the Left also believe that this balance is very much in favour of a debate on these elements so that we can take account of the two opposing considerations. The government, contrary to custom, has not wanted to go ahead, which means that we have to take it here during the legislative procedure. We certainly have a number of elements that we would like to have negotiated and discussed, for example. After all, the draft law states that the word is clearly deleted, so that camera setups no longer need to be clearly necessary in the context of criminal surveillance. That is one of the things we would like to discuss. In addition, we also lack answers to which crimes can otherwise justify access to a video by the police and what the level of punishment should be for those acting in violation of the law, including, of course, for those who are illegally hanging cameras or, for example, for those who do not. do not delete the material after 30 days. And who is really making sure that the rules governing the 30 days are observed? All this, and much more, is one of the things we want clarified so that we can strike the more correct balance between, of course, getting guilty and innocent exonerated, but also ensuring that Denmark does not become a total and unjustified surveillance society without any control of the monitoring rules at all. That is why we in the Left are going to propose that we sit together and strike a balance so that, on the one hand, we can ensure greater use of camera surveillance, because we have no doubt that this can be profitable in some cases, but, on the other hand, of course, we also ensure that citizens still have the freedom to move freely, which we all love.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225143613	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225143617	Thank you for the very good speech, where I think there were many positive elements. In any case, I would like to acknowledge that the rapporteur says that there is no desire for a surveillance society and that there are many ambiguities in this draft law, among others. the change of clearly necessary to the required amount. I would therefore like to ask whether all this together means that the Left, like the Radical Left, cannot support this bill in its present form. The Data Protection Agency also states that this is primarily limited by the fact that television must not be monitored in private homes, but in other places in the public domain. So is the Left in the Radical Left's car that the bill, as it is drafted here, simply goes too far?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225143703	As I said, I think we need to sit together and then we need to discuss some of the elements of this bill that are of great concern to us. I have already outlined some of the examples of this here. I also think, as the government has put it this way, that it is fair enough to say that we simply have to spend some more time on that. And it's not like the government hasn't had time, you might say. You know, you've been walking around with this for a very, very long time. So, in our opinion, it is only right that we should now sit together and strike a balance. As I said, this is not because we in the Left are opposed to camera surveillance, but it must be done in a proper way, so as to ensure the freedom of citizens and, of course, also on the basis of the awareness that monitoring is thus helping to convict many guilty people and also to free innocent people.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225143759	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225143800	Then I would like to ask the following question: does the Left believe that with the proposal that lies here, the freedom of citizens is respected? If it turns out that the government is not moving an inch, what will the Left vote on this proposal, as the Data Protection Agency says, and now I quote, 'will lead to the monitoring of even more ordinary citizens in freely accessible areas of ordinary travel?' Can the Left support the proposal in its present form if the government does not move an inch?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225143835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225143837	I think that if you count a little together in this Chamber, I think that the government will have to move forward, not just one inch, but perhaps more inches, and I look forward to that debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225143844	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, Mrs Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225143853	Thank you very much. We in the Danish People's Party think that this is a really exciting bill, and we are also in favour of having more powers in terms of extending the scope of monitoring. As the rapporteur of the Left said, there are also some questions to which we would very much like answers, and that is one of them. This whole thing with the citizens who are completely innocently moving in the pedestrian street. What about them? We are, of course, well aware that those who use this are the police and that no one else needs it, but you still get all these weird worries. Of course, we expect to have an answer to these, either in committee or, as the rapporteur of the Left has suggested, when we can sit down together and talk about these things. Because, of course, it has to be done in a proper way when we do something as intrusive as this. In relation to registration in POLCAM, we think it is a very good idea. It is also something that is based on an experimental system that has proved to be a really good and positive thing, and that is why we must, of course, extend it. We like that very much. One might ask whether the Minister has perhaps considered whether facial recognition should be included therein. This is certainly one of the questions we have in the Danish People's Party, because we are in favour of that at least. And then there is the question: what happens if you feel offended? For example, you have... A right of appeal? We do not really think this is clear from the draft law, and we would like an answer to that too. But from the outset we are positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225144038	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225144046	Today we are in a freedom struggle. Today we are discussing whether we want to undermine our own principles and values in the fight against evil. With this bill there will be surveillance at the strawberry shop; with this bill, the Danes can get their behavior completely mapped out from leaving their private homes until they are back home. Does this give the individual as much freedom as possible? Whether more monitoring gives more freedom is something we have been discussing lately, because if monitoring creates security that then creates more freedom, supervision must be equal to freedom, the reasoning has been sounded. We are best acquainted with the approach of "Erasmus Montanus·," the classic of Ludvig Holberg from 1723, where the young man and learned Rasmus Berg has gone to Copenhagen to study, which is why he has changed his name to Erasmus Montanus and has learned to argue. When he gets home, he says: A stone cannot fly, Mommy can't fly • ergo is Mommy's little a stone. It has become an example of a so-called logical misconception that is used today in science as an example of how logical approaches cannot be used. And fortunately, we have moved on since Erasmus Montanus' Pocket Philosophy of the 1700s: Of course, Mommy is not a stone, and of course monitoring does not create any more freedom. We don't get freedom by giving up our freedom. With the greatest possible monitoring, by its very nature, there is not as much freedom as possible. Cameras on every corner of the street don't free you, but cameras pick up that you're either singing falsely or have found a flirt you haven't told your associations about. And if as much surveillance as possible gave as much freedom as possible, China would be the freest country, and I honestly don't think anyone in here thinks they are. So increased surveillance doesn't give more freedom... increased surveillance gives less freedom. Without even a single analysis or evidence of the effect, this bill will be presented, which will provide mass monitoring from 1 July. Today traders must monitor 10-15 metres from their shop or in connection with the immediate routes of entry, and it is then extended to several hundred metres, and the only limitation for this kind of surveillance is forward-looking, that you should not be admitted to private homes. Mass monitoring will then be complete because stores, businesses and public authorities can each monitor innocent citizens at hundreds of metres away without supervision of use, and if the recordings are combined, the behaviour of innocent Danes can be identified. That is something that really gives rise to insecurity, that is, that we have to roll out massive mass monitoring, that you can be monitored if you buy strawberries in the strawberry stall, that you cannot go outside a door without having a camera on your neck. It is based on the assumption that everyone is criminal as soon as they are just outside the four walls of the home, and that is really something that creates insecurity. More mass surveillance therefore gives less security, and so mass surveillance cannot be something that increases freedom. We will no longer be free to sell out of it, and I think Erasmus Montanus would agree with this logical conclusion. Instead, the victims become the strawberry-eating Danes, and that cannot be a solution to anything. Why pay with the Danes' personal freedom and privacy when it has no effect? But doesn't it matter when you have nothing to hide? That is what the argument often sounds like, and I think Edward Snowden answers excellently: saying that you don't care about surveillance because you have nothing to hide is saying that you don't care about freedom of expression because you have nothing to say. This bill hasn't been fully elucidated. There are far too many cat hatches for mass surveillance, and that is why we will do everything we can, in parliamentary terms, to get this much better clarified, with hearings and everything before. So the fight for our own freedom must not mean that we give it up. Innocent Danes must be able to buy strawberries in peace.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225144612	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals, Mr President. Kristian Hegaard. And the next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225144642	There are several considerations that need to be taken into account when discussing extended access to television surveillance. First of all, of course, there is the question of the potential for investigation. We recognise this as important, but there is also a concern to take into account the freedoms of citizens and the right to privacy, which is a cornerstone of our rule of law. In the SF, we are on the team that recognizes that television surveillance rarely has a preventive effect, it doesn't prevent anything. On the other hand, we also fully recognise that this is an important tool for the police today in resolving crime, and that is why we are also open to looking at whether there may be a need to adjust the legislation. But, of course, this must always be done on a well-considered basis and with a very clear definition and, above all, with proportionality. It's kind of a relentless task to reflect on all parts of this bill, because there's a lot of elements, and that's why I'm just gonna come here with a few hits. There are both sensible things in the proposal, but also things that SF has difficulty in supporting. That is why we would actually like the bill to be split up so that we have an opportunity to take part in those parts that make sense, and I hope that the Minister would also like to be sensitive to that. First of all, I want to say something about what we are excited about. We are actually quite excited that it will now be compulsory to register your camera for POLCAM, which is the police register of cameras. It is actually an old SF mark case, because it is the case that the Data Protection Agency has had the task of checking whether cameras are sitting legally for many years, but the problem is that they have not been able to do so because they do not know where they are sitting when they are not in any register. And that is why I am glad that it will now be compulsory to register your camera. In fact, I have already asked the Minister whether the Data Protection Agency will have access to this register, and they will. That is a good thing, because then they can start to do their job. On the other hand, I would also like to point out that the SF is tabling some amendments to this part, because we also think it is important to make requirements on the quality of monitoring. I have actually witnessed court cases where the case fell because you didn't have a quality that was good enough. We also think that the cameras should be set up by an authorized person so that we ensure that they are set up legally and not film more than they must. Then we can support the idea of a slightly longer erasing deadline for television surveillance, because it only concerns a matter which has already been reported to the police; we think that is okay. And then we think it might also make sense to expand with new industries that will be able to monitor television. The Minister mentions wholesalers in his bill, and it is quite strange that they do not have the opportunity today when the retail trade has; they are, after all, very similar. Similarly, we are also positive that municipalities may have a need. In my municipality, Kolding Municipality, we have had a commuter site on the highway where the cars have repeatedly been subjected to vandalism. It's a pain in the ass for these people, and here I actually think it would make a really good sense to allow it. But then we are also at the point where agreement ends. Because we cannot support the fact that the Minister gives himself the authority to determine new opportunities to set up television surveillance and, in the case of municipalities, to decide where. In other words, we can see the need to react quickly in some cases, but for us it is about being able to monitor developments in this area and to have democratic control over how it develops. In fact, as I have said before, there is not only a concern for efficiency; there is indeed one thing to be done about freedom. And that is why we think that the Folketing should, in principle, take over. The police have been able to set up cameras themselves for many years, but they just haven't. I'm guessing it's because it's expensive to drift. And if I'm going to be a little heretic, it might seem like you're just wiping off the bill on the municipalities, which are now coming under pressure from their citizens to set up cameras everywhere. Last but not least, we think that the demarcation of what needs to be monitored is moving quite violently with this proposal ■ in fact it seems to be almost abolished. Now we go from private surveillance in public spaces 10-15 metres from facades and entrances to not being allowed into other people's homes. In practice, the bill states that it can be up to 200 metres down a street. I think that is a lot, and it is too much. It's hard for citizens to know when they're under surveillance. How are you supposed to guard against it in public space? How do you even part it? And then I also find it difficult to maintain the citizens' freedom not to be monitored, especially if you move in a city zone where there are many shops, all of which can monitor 200 metres down a street and when we now have a million and a half cameras in Denmark. And we know, of course, that at some point there will probably be pressure for facial recognition to be connected. We are therefore sceptical about Summa summarum, we cannot support the draft law as a whole, but we believe that it has some sensible elements and we hope to be able to vote in favour of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225145203	Thank you. There is one brief comment and it is from Mrs Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225145210	Thank you. The rapporteur says that camera monitoring cannot actually be preventive. That's not really what it's supposed to be for. That's the solution. However, in some cases it may seem preventative, in the sense that a criminal may refuse to go to a place where it can be seen that there is camera surveillance. Then perhaps you will refrain, at least in that place, from committing your crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225145232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225145234	As I recall, one of the only places where it is preventive is actually exactly in parking spaces when you sign it. However, it may be that there has been new research since last time, so there are actually several places. In any case, we can also see that in connection with the bombing of the Nørrebro police station, the preventive effect of masking the perpetrator was felt. So he certainly knew there was a camera. So to claim that there are no criminals thinking about it would probably be wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225145304	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225145306	We agree with that. So just for clarification: the rapporteur mentions that there must be a certain quality in the material and that is clear, otherwise it cannot be used for anything and that it must be set up by an authorized person. There may be good reasoning about that too. But is it the person who has to be set up who has to bear the cost of it, SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225145328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225145330	Yeah, sure. Of course, if you want to set up a camera, you have to follow the law. And if the law says that it should be an authorized person setting it up, because that is what guarantees that it does not film anything it should not film, for example. Into other people's homes, of course, you pay for it yourself, as well as the cost of the camera itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225145351	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225145400	Thank you. When we discussed surveillance in a question debate on 6 December 2019, the Minister of Justice stated that with surveillance, freedom is increasing. And without having to stand here and get too philosophical or repeat those things, sir. Kristian Hegaard said, I just want to make it clear that this is not a thought we share in the Enhedslisten. We simply do not agree that maximum monitoring ensures maximum freedom or maximum security for that matter. I think it is a lot of other things that create security in our society. For example: The fact that we have a strong welfare society does not ensure that we have a lot of surveillance. Society where citizens are maximum supervised is not the same as that they are maximum free or safe. We have seen plenty of examples of this. This was not the case in the GDR where Stasi was monitoring the citizens; it is not the case in China. There are very many places where there is a lot of surveillance, but not very much freedom or security. Now I know that we cannot compare our good, democratic Danish rule of law with either a Big Brother society or with the GDR for that matter. I am fully aware of that. It is just to emphasise that increased monitoring involves recording the conduct and actions of law-abiding citizens with the possibility of abuse. I think we have seen so much evidence that monitoring does not increase freedom, that monitoring does not increase security, but actually the opposite, namely that monitoring reduces freedom, that we become less free when there is much monitoring. Should we, then, perhaps still accept a certain reduction in our freedom if, in return, we achieve that it will be easier to solve and prevent crime? Of course, one might consider this, and I admit that surveillance cameras play a major role in solving crimes. I admit that, but I would also point out that the Crime Prevention Council, in their response to this bill, writes that television surveillance only has a proven preventive effect on crime in certain very specific situations, which was also mentioned by my colleague from the SF, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Television surveillance is not, therefore, a panacea that prevents crime. However, I recognise, of course, that it has played a role in solving crimes. Part of this bill is that all private and public bodies involved in television surveillance should be recorded in police records of surveillance cameras. That part of the proposal will Enhedslisten support, and we hope that the government will share in dividing the bill into two, because we would very much like to support the part that ensures that cameras are registered. In fact, we believe that this will increase legal certainty for us citizens in society, in other words, that there is also an overview of the private surveillance cameras hanging around. We cannot support the bill as it stands here in its entirety. We are opposed to the first part of what the bill is about, but we strongly support the registration of all surveillance cameras. That is why we are proposing to share the bill exactly like the SF, because then we would very much like to support the last part of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225145752	Thank you. There are no brief comments. And just for information, I would say that the sound is very easy to reach up here to the platform, so longer conversations must be conducted a little away from here and preferably out in the sidelines. The next rapporteur is from the Conservatives, and that is Mr. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225145811	Thank you, President. I have said this before, and I would like to repeat it: in an ideal situation, in an ideal society, it is preferable that there should be no surveillance. But we are not in an ideal situation. We have some inner enemies among us; we have gangs that fight one another. And that is why it is extremely important that the police have the optimal tools to come after the inner enemies and the criminals. In the Conservative People's Party, we want to give the police the best conditions for finding the criminals, that is, those who want to harm our society. We Conservatives trust our police. That is why it makes good sense to give the police better opportunities to take advantage of the advances that we have technologically. This also means that in some cases monitoring needs to be stepped up. It makes sense for the police to use other public authorities' surveillance cameras if the investigation can benefit from it. It is also sensible to make it compulsory to register television surveillance in POLCAM. It is also sensible to keep recordings for more than 30 days if necessary in relation to an investigation. In this way, we in the Conservative People's Party would like to help increase the scope for monitoring where it makes sense. And for that reason, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225145949	There is just one brief comment from Mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225145952	One of the changes that lies in this bill, which we have all been discussing here in the debate, is that it is now not just 10-15 metres from the matrix, but several hundred metres from the matrix that can be monitored. It is, of course, a significant extension, and there must then be some criteria for it to be possible at all. I would like to know whether it is in the opinion of the rapporteur that there is sufficient clarity as to what really needs to be done in relation to the consultation responses that have been received. Is there transparency? Is it absolutely crystal clear to the rapporteur what it takes to simply hang these cameras, which, in relation to the requirements that apply today, can monitor several hundred metres, where today it is only 10-15 metres?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225150041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225150041-2	I think it makes sense to extend it from 15 metres to more, because it is also very dependent on where it is geographically. There is a difference between part of the country and part of the country in relation to pedestrian streets, shops etc. In some places it may be sensible at 15 m, while elsewhere it may be sensible at 100-200 m.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225150102	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225150103	Now I didn't ask if the change from 10-15 m to a few hundred meters is sensible. What I am asking is that in several of the hearings there has been a considerable criticism of the uncertainty about the criteria that apply, where the rapporteur of the Left also argued that there is considerable uncertainty as to what really needs to be done. Does the rapporteur not recognise the criticism? And does the rapporteur think that the criteria set up are transparent and clear? It is, of course, quite crucial in relation to the massive mass monitoring that has been put in place that there is at least transparency about how this can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225150138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225150139	I do not see the problem, but if there is a need for further discussion in order to get more clarity, then we are open to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225150149	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. The next rapporteur is from the alternative, sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225150206	Thank you for the floor. Then we have to go back to it: to discuss freedom, legal certainty and mass surveillance. The reason is that the government once again intends to extend the use of mass surveillance of public space and ordinary citizens, despite the fact that this kind of surveillance continues to undermine the constitutional right of individual citizens to freedom and privacy. It is no secret that in the alternative we are fiercely opposed to more monitoring and illegal logging for that matter, because more monitoring means less freedom, and that is not the society we want at all. The argument for increased use of mass monitoring does not stand. Indeed, it is claimed that more surveillance leads to less severe crime, but there is just no research evidence for that. In fact, several experts and organisations have often criticised that argument precisely because there is no evidence that it is correct. In addition to the dubious effect of increased monitoring, of course, it is also an important fundamental question of the right to freedom and privacy. This issue should not be minimized because it is about the very foundations of our democracy. In general, the freedom of the Danes has already been too many times curtailed and neglected in recent years. The Burka ban, the Tibet case, the ghetto package, the use of illegal logging and the teledata scandal are just examples of what has happened. More mass surveillance will be just another one. Every democratic society is, of course, obliged to protect its citizens from abuse, but it also includes abuses by the state. Unfortunately, changing governments appear to be completely blind to the obvious paradox that, in order to protect citizens, action is increasingly being taken which undermines the freedom and legal certainty that one is just obliged to protect. For example: It goes without saying that the authorities will be better placed to solve and prevent the crime if the police get an extended framework and get easier to control and monitor the citizen. The problem arises when, as in the case of mass surveillance, we fall into the trap of extending powers so much that we really disregard all citizens' constitutional rights to privacy and freedom. The contradiction is enormous and the price is too high. So, dear government, that will be a no thank you to the enlarged surveillance community. The price is too high. We do not want to sell out the freedom of a surveillance society based on pseudo-security. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225150439	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. The next is Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225150453	Thank you for the floor. Decades of failed immigration policy have betrayed our society. Criminal groups and immigrant gangs have created insecurity in cities. That is unacceptable. We should not feel insecure and insecure in our own country, and we should not accept that a failed immigration policy is cutting bits of our freedom year by year. The raison d'être of our society must be stopped; the problems must be solved from scratch. This bill makes it easier for the police to solve crimes, and it is a step in the right direction, and that is a good thing. Criminals should not be allowed to escape. They must be captured, judged and punished, and, if they are aliens, they must be shown consistently and after the first sentence. Proposal for a law amending the law on television surveillance comprises five main points: enhanced access to private television surveillance, increased access to municipal television surveillance, television surveillance in public buildings, compulsory recording of television surveillance and increased access to recordings. New citizens recognise the general dilemma of the relationship between the increased monitoring of citizens and the legal certainty of citizens. However, we believe that the burdens imposed by the measures in this draft law on the freedom of citizens are proportionate to the objective of giving the police a much better chance of solving the many serious crimes that are taking place. But the bill and the other measures in the government's security and security package cannot stand alone. According to figures from the Ministry of Justice's research office in December 2018, four out of five gang members have immigrant backgrounds • four out of five. It's crazy that we've let it come this far. And there is no doubt that we are going to use even tougher means and that the Danes will experience even greater interference in their freedom if we do not tackle the root of the nettle and solve the problems from the bottom up. More than half of the gang members registered in the Ministry of Justice's report who are still in the country have been incarcerated for more than a year. New citizens support this proposal, which will make it easier for the police to solve crimes. But when you look at the raw figures, it is quite clear that the draft law is inadequate if we want to preserve freedom and security in our society. We would therefore strongly recommend that the government take the necessary steps to ensure that the foreigners who are now being caught and convicted of crime are also shown consistently and after the first sentence.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225150758	Thank you. There are no brief comments. So we move on in the rapporteur's line to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225150805	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we are in the middle of a load and burst together with the rest of the real opposition, that is. the support parties of the government, and we also have a number of concerns about the fact that powers are being extended in time and prematurely to more and more monitoring without being able to properly demonstrate that this will have a decisive effect and without having a sufficient look at the various legal guarantees. It is not really because, as such, we are opposed to giving the police the right tools to solve the crimes to be solved. We're quite comfortable with that. If we do so, we must be able, on the one hand, to have such evidence that the tools we provide will actually have a real effect, such as one, and, on the other hand, we must also have a look at legal certainty for the citizens, and, on the other hand, we have three concrete proposals that will make this bill better and perhaps even edible. The first would be to ensure that citizens can have access to complaints about unjustified surveillance • it could be of their accommodation. The second would be to ensure that this monitoring is not used to combat milder forms of crime, nor is it used for other purposes, such as: to discover cheating with the payment of social benefits or the like. Thirdly, we should also introduce perhaps not a sunset clause, but then an evaluation every year, documenting with data and empire and not just with stories from the hot countries of the police, what the effect is of the surveillance and the powers given to the police. Because if the effect is not present, then the legislation should be rolled back. So these are three concrete proposals that we hope will be looked at in committee work, and then it may be that we join the blue parties in not being so big an opposition.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225150951	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next person to speak is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225151011	Thank you for the speeches we have heard, which, of course, cover the whole range of positions on the legislative proposal we are discussing. For me and for the government, the starting point is that all Danes deserve to be safe. In my opinion, it is in fact a fundamental objective of the rule of law that we can provide security to the Danes. We must safeguard security so that the Danes can move freely. And so, in my very best opinion, security is a prerequisite for freedom. Without security, no freedom. We take stock of the reality in which we stand. We take precautions so that we do not allow criminal forces to undermine the Denmark that makes Denmark Denmark Denmark: that we can move safely and freely, that we can trust that if something happens, the criminals will be prosecuted. I am therefore generally in favour of measures to strengthen the police's ability to solve crime, not least because it is part of the foundation of the rule of law. In many cases, television surveillance photos are crucial to the police's ability to identify and locate perpetrators. That is a fact. This means that, with increased television surveillance, we will create more security, because we will stop the social behaviour that we do not want. We hold criminals responsible for the behaviour that we, as a society, believe to be reprehensible. Nor is there any doubt that monitoring to solve crime is legitimate. It serves a legitimate purpose. That is, of course, one of the key issues in monitoring: what is the objective of this monitoring? There is illegitimate surveillance, there is legitimate surveillance and, in my opinion, it is entirely legitimate monitoring when we say as a society: we do that because we want to fight crime. We do that because we want to give security to the Danes. We do this because it guarantees confidence in the rule of law. We do so because it increases the cohesion of our societies that crime is dealt with. As far as I am concerned, the monitoring proposed by the government with this proposal increases security, thereby increasing the ability of individuals to unfold freely without fear of becoming victims of crime. With the security and security package, we provide the police with tools that will lead to faster and more effective investigation of crime. I believe this not only increases security and freedom in Denmark, but also strengthens our community of law. That is really what the security and security package must ensure. With the security and security package, therefore, we are giving private actors and public authorities increased opportunities to monitor television and thus also the police additional tools for solving crime. With the bill, we will significantly expand the possibilities for television surveillance. We do this by giving shops and public authorities the opportunity to TV monitor down the street from their own shopfronts and buildings. At the same time, we will allow municipalities to monitor publicly available areas in order to promote security, not least in the nightlife, which is what we want. Instead of focusing today on distance requirements, it is crucial for me that there is no television surveillance into private homes. In addition to the wider possibilities for television surveillance, which I have mentioned, the authorisation provision will extend the range of private operators who must be watched by television. It is true that today's television watching law is only a specific circle, for example. gas stations and shops which may be used for television surveillance areas with regular traffic. I imagine that enlargement, for example. could include warehouses or construction sites. In addition, I imagine that this should be an opportunity for private people involved in critical infrastructure, pharmaceutical companies, for example. We have also created a similar opportunity to expand the range of areas which municipalities must watch over. This is because, on the basis of the consultation answers, we have become more aware of the needs of the municipalities. It could, for example, be done. it appears that there is a need for television surveillance of parking areas, which was also mentioned by the SF rapporteur. Finally, the legislative proposal will make it compulsory for public and private authorities to register in the police register of television cameras, namely that of POLCAM. With the significantly expanded opportunities for television surveillance, the police must have a better overview of where they are monitored so that they can obtain relevant monitoring material more quickly. This will make the work of the police considerably easier in the context of investigations. Then I will turn my attention to some of the comments that have been made today. In other words, the first thing that must always be done with oneself when one is a government is what it really looks like with regard to the majority of the proposal that we have put forward in the Chamber today. Right on that flat, I think it's just a thread, if we can get it voted through if we just go on. This, of course, always gives rise to reflections, and that is why I will take them a little from the end of it. The Left wants a debate, points out some points that are considered relevant to debate, but are also fundamentally positive about the proposal. We respect that. I will, of course, call for negotiations and I will come back to which parties I have imagined calling. DF raises some questions, but is basically positive about the proposal as it stands. The Radicals are clearly negative. SF has some comments on how far there must be monitoring, i.e. the 200 metres, and then there is something with authorisation, but is also fundamental to the proposal as it stands. The Enhedslisten does not support the proposal. Conservatives are completely positive. The alternative is completely negative. New citizens are completely positive. And the Liberal Alliance is basically negative. This means that, in the course of this matter, but before we reach the third reading, I will take the initiative in calling for negotiations with the parties that are positive about the proposal we have put forward to find the solutions that are needed to secure a hopefully broad majority in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225151712	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225151716	I think, of course, and it is probably not surprising to the Minister that it is fantastic that there is not a majority in favour of the proposal as it stands here. But I will also follow carefully as to where it ends up whether there will be material changes, or whether it will be something nice and I will also submit a number of written questions. But what I would like to ask is that the Minister has indicated back in December that with surveillance freedom is increasing. Does the Minister think that freedom for citizens is increasing with the bill that lies here? Is the freedom of the citizen changing this distance from 10-15 m to several hundred meters, where it is almost only at the private home that the border goes? And does freedom increase when you make a provision that means that you can make administrative announcements that expand the monitoring and not have it through the Folketing? Will the freedom of citizens then be increased?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225151814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225151815	Yes, freedom is increasing. And I think it's really about our freedom concepts being different. The concept of freedom of the Radical Left is a concept of freedom, which is that freedom is the absence of coercion. My concept of freedom is a concept of freedom, which is about having the resources and the opportunity to live in freedom. And when, for example, we get there. I believe that security is a prerequisite for freedom. So when we increase security, as we do, when we ensure that people really have freedom and not just have formal freedom, then security and freedom increase.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225151902	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225151904	I do not think I fully understood it, so I would like to ask again in another way: how can it mean more freedom for completely innocent Danes who have never intended to do anything and never will, that suddenly there will be such a marked increase in surveillance, where it is only at private homes that the border goes, and where the combination of operators' and shops' recordings can completely map the behaviour of the innocent Dane? How can it in any way be increased freedom?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225151938	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225151941	So let me illustrate this with an example: I think that if you ask most young women if they have experienced a situation where they were insecure about going out in the evening, where they were insecure about going some particular route, where they were insecure about going a certain way, they would say that they have. Do they have freedom? At any rate, they have had their freedom cut because they are not safe. If we can make sure, with surveillance cameras, that you reach, for example. Walking in the city, feeling safe, and not having to think about which way to go home, you are given freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152016	Thank you. And the next for a brief comment is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152021	Thank you. Here it becomes clear that we in the Enhedslist also do not have the same concept of freedom as the Minister. This may have been clear for some time, but I have a question for the Minister who says in his speech that freedom is a fundamental prerequisite for the rule of law. I am in total agreement with that, but is it not also a fundamental condition for the rule of law that you are innocent until proven otherwise, that is, if you have not done anything, you should not be monitored all the time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152055	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152056	Well, that's the basic legal principle, in Latin: in dubio pro reo. So it is, of course, part of the rule of law that is ours. In fact, it amazes me a little that Enhedslisten buys into the concept of civil liberty, namely that freedom is the absence of coercion, and that Enhedslisten does not have a more nuanced view of freedom, so that freedom, for example, is not about what resources are made available, that freedom is about what real opportunities you give, that freedom is about how you provide security, but stick to the fact that it is the absence of coercion. In fact, I think that if you looked, it would be few who would say: the very formal concept of freedom is also real freedom. Because, in terms of formal action: yes, young women can formally walk out of the apartment and move where they may be exposed to crime. They can do that because they're free to do it. But if they dare not go there for fear of abuse, rape or anything else, then they are not free.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152204	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152206	Well, I would very much like to contribute to nuance the concept of freedom, because our concept of freedom in the Enhedslisten is not as such bourgeois in that sense. I mean, I think equality is so much a prerequisite for freedom. And that is why I believe that what creates security is that we have a strong welfare society, that we are not so far apart. I do not believe that it is monitoring that creates that security. But to this extent I agree with the Minister that security is a prerequisite for freedom, and my claim will be that it is equality. To the question: that was actually something that the Liberal Alliance mentioned earlier, and now I understand from the Minister that there must be negotiations. But does the Minister not agree that when you make such an interference in the Danes' freedoms, it makes sense to have a sunset clause on the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152251	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152252	Let me start by saying that, of course, security and freedom are not only defined by how good we are at fighting crime. But security and freedom are certainly also linked to how good we are at fighting crime. I basically agree that one of the most important pillars of free society we have is equality and that it is to a large extent also that we have the welfare state that allows us to meet each other at eye level. So I agree with all that. I have not dealt with the question of a sunset clause, and I will of course discuss this with the parties that I invite to negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152331	Thank you. The next to make a brief comment is Mrs Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152337	Thank you. It's just figuring out which one of the Pearls it's about. It is simply a matter of understanding that I have. If you now imagine that there are 30 houses on a road and that is a private common road, would they be able to apply to have their entire path monitored, because they have decided that in agreement with each other and they own the road because it is private? Would they be able to do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152403	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152404	So specifically a question I think it is best to answer by means of a written question. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152411	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152414	Then I will put a written question. What, then, is the Minister's thinking about having a right of appeal? I would also like to hear a little about the Minister's reflections on facial recognition.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152428	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152430	Those were two very important questions. As far as I remember, we have had a question debate or a motion for a resolution on facial recognition alone, so it is perhaps a little much to take now. I think that the question of redress is relevant, but we must of course deal with what we should be able to complain about. For the use of recordings by the police is typically linked to the fact that a court order has been given to actually take over this recording, so a considerable amount of legal certainty is built in. If the question concerns other elements, I am not at all sure that it is my resort, but we can follow up on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152505	Thank you. The next is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152509	I believe that the answer to Mrs Pernille Bendixen's question is in fact in the old legislation, so that you can do it when you own the road and are a landowner's association. In relation to these 200 metres, to which the proposal has now been extended, I tried a little to ask the Socialist rapporteur, but perhaps the Minister can tell me something. I am well aware that it is because some clarifications have been made and, in reality, it will be simpler, but it is a major enlargement. Is this something that the Minister has actively worked to get into legislation? Or can the Minister perhaps tell us something about how it ended up with such a strong enlargement? Because I do not really think the draft law relates to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152553	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152555	This bill is very much based on the fact that we asked the police what it takes to make them more effective in combating crime. And one of the things they mentioned was the limitation that was in relation to how big footage from cameras you could have, for example. from a retail store. And that is why the basic question is at least as far as the fight against crime is concerned, which is based on what needs to be done so that we can be even better at combating crime. I have no such carved in stone attitude that 200 m exactly is the right area. And by the way, I also heard something from the Left; there, of course, you have to be better at hearing the birds singing than I probably am, but it sounded as if it was one of the things you might want to talk about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152649	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152651	That sounds very good, because if we can take a step down that road, I think we can at least minimise the damage suffered by citizens' freedoms. I would just like to hear from the Minister what he thinks about the proposal to introduce some kind of authorization in relation to setting up television cameras. After all, it is both the installer who can ensure that it is done legally, but who can also complete the form which actually has to be made for POLCAM and which ensures that things are properly and sensibly recorded. What does the Minister think of such a proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152724	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152726	I can easily see the gains from that. I am just afraid that it will be unnecessarily administratively burdensome, that is to say that we are really putting on some burdens that are disproportionately proportional to what we are achieving with it. But that is one of the things we can try to look down into, in terms of how it can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152748	Thank you. The next is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152751	Thank you for the floor. After all, the draft law here does not necessarily aim to prevent crime, but to make it easier for the police to solve crime. We recognize, I think, so widely in the Folketing that the freedoms that lie in freeing people from being watched are a few files and, in return, we have a freedom in relation to the fact that there are areas in which we can move. So far so good. Once these criminals have been captured and hopefully have also been convicted, we can see from the figures from the minister's own research office that four out of five of the gang members have an immigrant background. Of course, there are fewer people who have foreign nationality, but for too many years we have been too generous in the distribution of citizenship, and there is a large proportion who are foreign nationals. If we do not have to continue to file our freedom in order to achieve a goal of security and security in our society, will the government do more to ensure that the criminal aliens who are being captured, who are being convicted, are actually expelled?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152900	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152902	Without violence on democracy, I think I will be able to say that the question lies at the edge of what is the subject of the legislative proposal. Nevertheless, the government's position is that criminal foreigners convicted in Denmark should be expelled as far as possible from Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152923	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225152925	When it is relevant to the bill, it is of course because when we deal with these many legislative proposals, including among the government's own supporting parties, there are parties that think that we are going too far here in relation to the freedom that we otherwise pay dearly in our society. When we go this far, it is because we have had a salutation of our society, unfortunately as a consequence of a failed immigration policy, and that is why we say in New Citizens that if we do not have the will to solve the problems from scratch, then it will be the screw without end with proposals that restrict our freedom. Doesn't the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225153000	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225153002	Yes. When the government chooses to table this bill, it is precisely because there is a need to combat crime; it is precisely because we can see a crime picture that requires that we take a harder approach. And it is true, as has been said in other words by other rapporteurs, that if everyone were just good to animals and dressed warmly, this was not necessary, but it is not so. We have to deal with the reality in which we live, and there is therefore a need to go harder on the criminals in Denmark than we do at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225153036	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225153039	Thank you. I would just like to sign off on the fact that negotiations are now being called for. But will the Minister tell us when these negotiations will begin? You have to say, there's been a certain slowness in this field. It's not quite new that we should have this bill dealt with just like the negotiations on a police reform are waiting for them; everything is just waiting for it. It might be interesting to know whether we should expect another six months without anything happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225153108	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225153109	I do not, therefore, agree with the basic premise that everything is waiting for itself. I think that, moreover, we have come a very long way in common. We have bought the police's overtime hump away and we have taken a number of other initiatives that are good and right. I will have to coordinate it with all the rapporteurs' calendars, but immediately I imagine Wednesday or Thursday next week.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225153133	Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225153135	That's interesting. We shall look forward to that very much in the Left. And then I simply do not buy the premise that a great deal of progress has been made. If it is to have come a very long way, that you have been shooting the police negotiations for over six months, and that you have simply filled the cliff that has arisen because you have not started the police negotiations, then I would say that there is not much to please the minister and the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225153208	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225153210	No, that's not true. We really have, I think, achieved a great deal in the half-year that has passed. This is partly in terms of strengthening the police and partly in terms of strengthening the prosecution. There are currently border controls against Sweden, which was not before. There are initiatives in relation to driving madness, which will seriously end the big problem. There are a large number of initiatives. And now, hopefully, we will be able to get to grips with this together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225153241	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225153305	The debate is open, and the first is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225153314	Thank you. As I said when dealing with the legislative proposal we have just been through, this also concerns the overall presentation of legislative proposals relating to the security and security package. This is a re-submission of a bill tabled by the previous government, in which we have then made a single amendment or addition. The bill here is about giving the police, including PET, the opportunity to take over and use relevant television surveillance from other authorities in exceptional circumstances.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. prevent terrorist attacks, gang violence, bomb explosions, etc., where human lives or significant social values are put at risk. That is to say, it is an instrument that needs to be used if there is real danger and which also relates to the situation we saw back in 2015, when Omar El-Hussein ran around the streets of Copenhagen, and in a situation like that one could imagine that the police had access to take over television surveillance from some of the above mentioned examples and thus also have the opportunity to see whether a possible terrorist's behaviour could be followed even closer than was the case back in 2015. So what is added to the legislative proposal put forward by the then government is that it should also be subject to investigation and not only to the prevention of particularly serious crimes. It is also because the two things are very closely related. In order for this proposal to be put into effect, as I said, it must therefore be a serious crime which should endanger the lives, well-being or significant social values of people, and then it is also crucial that the reason for taking over television surveillance is therefore to prevent or investigate the crime, and there must be exceptional situations, such as the one we are discussing here. terrorist attacks, gang shootings, bomb blasts, etc. This instrument must also be based on a court order which limits both time, place and scope, and the Social Democratic Party naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225153553	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225153557	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. When it comes to e.g. in writing. - (FR) As the rapporteur says, the Radical Left can see the meaning of the need for an immediate takeover of television surveillance. However, three conditions must be met before it can take place and two of them are very vague. The only condition that is relatively objective is that there should be a crime under Chapter 12 or 13 of the Criminal Code or a provision with a penalty of six years or more. Is the rapporteur aware of, and can the rapporteur confirm, that apart from chapters 12 and 13 of the criminal code, there are more than 40 provisions with a penalty of six years or more, which means that there are a great many crimes that are likely to be committed every day that will allow the police to enter and take over television surveillance immediately?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225153655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225153657	Yes, it is true that we have a number of clauses in the criminal code where there is a penalty of over six years, and that is why the individual element here is not alone either. As Mr. Kristian Hegaard also mentioned, there are three conditions that need to be met in order for it to be applied: firstly, there must be a serious crime with a penalty of over six years, as was mentioned here. Secondly, it must endanger human life, well-being or significant social values. Thirdly, there must be crucial reasons for taking over television surveillance in order to prevent or investigate the crime being committed. In other words, this can happen when the three conditions are met, and this is also a very extraordinary situation, and there must be a court order, and I think that we have got it right. It must also be based on the fact that there is confidence that the courts can also check that the application of this is carried out in accordance with the law and therefore also with the observations and intention of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225153801	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225153803	But is that so good? you could be tempted to ask. For we are looking at the third condition, namely that it should be liable to endanger the lives or welfare of people or to significant social values, there is, after all, a 2010 judgment which, for similar coercive measures, defined that a limit to what was covered, among other things. was a person who was armed with a gun or a gunform in a kiosk where no one was injured and with low yield. Can the rapporteur not see that there are many such cases that unfortunately occur every day, and thus very many cases in which the police can go in and take over television surveillance immediately?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225153845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225153846	I'd say that if what you're referring to is such an attack on a kiosk where a man with a gun threatens the person, then I can't assess this from the platform. But I just want to say that some of what is at stake here is quite serious crime. I mentioned, for example. also gang shootings, explosions, etc. That could, in fact, be included in some of what the radical rapporteur mentions here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225153913	Sir. Kristian Hegaard. Sorry, I am sure that the rapporteur of the Radicals could have come up with one more question, but there are no more brief comments. Thank you. No one else has asked for a brief comment either, so thank the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur, Mrs Inger Nøjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225153953	Thank you. After all, the draft law here contains virtually the same as the previous government's draft law did, but unfortunately it was withdrawn because of the elections. The bill allows the police to take over real-time television surveillance by other authorities and also private ones in exceptional situations in order to prevent and investigate particularly serious crimes. It can, for example, be done. be a terrorist attack, it can be a gang fight where human life or significant social values can be put at risk. Moreover, in situations where television surveillance is manned, this will lead to a special preventive effect, as the police have the opportunity to intervene before the situation actually escalates. For us in the Left, it is important that we do everything we can within the framework of the rule of law, of course, to prevent terrorist attacks and to combat gang crime, so that all citizens can move safely and safely on the streets and in the rest of our society. That is why we also believe that the police should have this opportunity, which the proposal can guarantee, and the draft law already provides for the same legal guarantees as that the police should then have a court order stating in which area and during which time the takeover of television surveillance must be carried out. We are, of course, fully aware that the acquisition of television surveillance constitutes an infringement of the freedoms of the undertaking or authority in question. But with the bill, we still believe that the balance has been quite right. The new draft law also highlights the personalities who are obliged to register in police registers, which we have just dealt with in L 102 in this Chamber. In the Left we think it is positive that the government will now ensure a comprehensive overview of where and also how many cameras are actually installed in the public space. That is what we need so that our police officers do not waste precious time, for example. during a terrorist attack or in an investigation, by going out on the roads and tracing cameras manually. The Left can therefore fully support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225154228	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225154231	I would like to start by signing for the Left's approach to the legislative proposal before, after all, saying that there were some very unclear conditions for when monitoring should be established. In connection with this bill, the Danish Court of Justice and others are also raising a number of concerns about precisely unclear conditions. For example, what exactly are special or exceptional situations? the hearing answer will be asked. When will they take place? So I would like to ask what it is that is that the Left can support this bill, where there are also a large number of opaqueities and ambiguities in relation to different definitions, but could not support the legislative proposal that we have just discussed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225154317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225154318	I have to say that I think there is a very big difference. The bill that we have just considered, I think, was • let me say it as it is very loosely formulated and in very general terms. I believe, in principle, that when it comes to many more surveillance cameras, which are going to monitor a much broader perspective than now, because that is also what has been proposed in L 102, it has a different character than here. We know, among other things, that in the terrorist attack of 14 February 2015, it was essential for the investigation to actually gain access to cameras. It has to be said that in the moments and the period after a terrorist attack, it will be very helpful if the police both know where the cameras are, but also afterwards can use these cameras in real time. So it will be very helpful to the police in their investigation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225154423	Sir. Kristian Hegaard for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225154426	I fully agree with the rapporteur when it comes to a terrorist situation. There it may be very sensible to be able to access cameras immediately in the way that has been proposed here. So if you want, you can actually choose just to fence it in and say that it is only about terror, or that it is only about chapters 12 and 13 of the criminal code, but you have just chosen not to do so. This applies to over 40 paragraphs other than those related to terror. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur: when it is being put forward by among others. The Court of Justice, that they are in doubt as to how to assess the various wordings contained in the bill here; when even the judges become doubtful about how and how the various wordings should be understood, is it not a concern that we should take seriously?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225154507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225154508	We must always listen to that, but I would also say that I think it would be too narrow if we were to say that, for example, it would be too narrow. should only apply during terrorist attacks. Gang war is therefore one of the things that creates, one must say, much fear and much justified fears in some of the great cities, and it will also be appropriate to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225154532	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225154546	It is absolutely crucial that we on the part of the Danish Parliament provide the police with all the tools they may need in the fight against terrorism to a particular extent. What we are giving the opportunity here is that the police will have much faster access to either finding the terrorist after a terrorist attack, so that they cannot commit new terrorist attacks, or if you are lucky to prevent too. The whole thing being put together in one place and making a registration compulsory, the police have a unique opportunity to access it directly, and there I would just like to give a warning in relation to one of the hearing answers that has been received, namely, that you have to make a map of where all the cameras are on the police website. It has to be said that if PET is to sit and monitor a possible terrorist, then it does not make sense for them to advertise where they are. Of course, it is not part of the bill, but it appeared in a hearing answer, and we just think it in the Danish People's Party is a really bad idea. But we think the bill itself is really, really good, and we support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225154652	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225154735	Thank you for the floor. This bill is yet another example of the fact that today we have a freedom struggle here in the Parliamentary Assembly about a series of anti-freedom measures targeted at those who threaten our freedom. This concerns the ability of the police to immediately access and take over television surveillance from other public authorities........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Rapid access to television surveillance requires operators to be given the duty to assist the police in taking over surveillance. If that obligation is not fulfilled, a number of coercive measures may be used. If necessary, the police will be able to take control by force. In other words, the Radical Left could see the meaning of it if it were only for terrorist situations. I think a number of good examples have been given as to why this may, unfortunately, be relevant. But in so many cases, as the government is proposing here, things are simply getting out of hand and it is completely opaque when the police can make the immediate take-over. Because three criteria have been laid down for the police's takeover of television surveillance. The first is that there must be a crime under Chapter 12 or 13 of the Penal Code or a provision with a penalty of six years in prison or more. It is probably the most objective of the cumulative conditions laid down. But there are more than 40 articles outside of the penal code chapters 12 and 13, which provide for the possibility of six years' imprisonment or more. So it is in extreme cases that the police can take over television every day. We cannot support that at all. The second condition is that there must also be fundamental reasons for investigating or preventing a crime. It is rather vague when no more is written about the definition of a decision or a definition of when to intervene in the investigation. At what stage should crime be, and how advanced should it be? We will be asking a host of questions on this in committee. Because prevention can be interpreted very broadly, and we think that is a little too big a cat door. Finally, the crime must be liable to lead to or have led to a danger to human life or welfare or to significant social values, and that is something that could be understood in the wording as quite serious crimes. But what matters is what can be considered the lower limit of this formulation. For the definition is known from other coercive measures in the Code of Procedure, such as tele-information, and in court practice, at least as I have just seen in the hearings, a provisional lower limit is defined by a judgment in which a person in an ordinary armed robbery with a gun or a gunform in a kiosk where no one was injured and with low profit was covered by this definition. So that means that there are quite a lot of cases where the police can go in and immediately take over the surveillance with the consequences it has. So this unconcrete definition of the various criteria and too large an opening of a cat's door seems to us to give an excessive degree of arbitrariness in the administration of justice and in relation to coercive action. The Radical Left cannot therefore support the draft law and will ask a number of questions in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225155129	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. We move forward in the rapporteur's report to the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225155145	Thank you for the floor. In the SF, we are actually positive, cautiously positive about this proposal, which should, of course, allow the police to take over real-time television surveillance, in other words live. After all, we saw in the search for the bomber at the tax administration that cameras were helping in tracing him, and it is obvious that if you can get those footage in real time, it might provide some new and improved opportunities for the police. When it comes to terrorism, it is also obvious that it can give the police good cards if they start a manhunt for a person who has either committed terrorism or who can be feared will commit new attacks or just an attack. The proposal therefore concerns the worst crimes. We need to get all the way up to a six-year penalty so that the police can take over surveillance. On the other hand, it involves the use of a court order, and a lawyer must also be appointed for the one you are looking for, and also for the one who has the equipment that is being taken over. The court decides on the duration of the procedure, but the longest period is 48 hours with the possibility of an extension. So it really seems that there are a number of guarantees of legal certainty for the intervention, and that seems quite reasonable. But of course I have also listened to the criticism from the Danish Association of Judges. Here we may think it would be very good if the judges were to sit here and decide on this, that the minister grabs the bone and calls them and hears how we can deal with the uncertainties they have. On the other hand, we may not think in the SF that we have learned more about how this should actually happen technically. I'm sensitive to a hearing response from some people called IT Professionals or something like that, who say there's a security risk when the police have to take over this kind of footage. I'm not an expert on this, I'm not very IT expert, but as I understand their hearing answer, it goes on to say that when you catch up with old-fashioned television surveillance, it happens on the inside of the citizen's router and is therefore with a great deal of certainty. But if the police are to take over it, it will typically be via the Internet and there is lower security and thus a risk of leaking and hacking and abuse and all sorts of other things. I think we should have bored out what they mean by that so we can learn a little bit more about how security is really about this. I think that in these IT uncertainty times it is important to have that in mind. But on the basis of what I have said here today, we are cautiously positive about this possibility, but we also have, of course, some questions which we would like to have clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225155427	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the SF rapporteur, so we move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225155440	In the Enhedslisten we are generally sceptical about the ever-increasing spread of television surveillance in Danish society. Having said that, however, there may be situations where it is essential for the police to have access as soon as possible to the video recordings made by private traders, housing associations and others. This applies, for example, when an act of terrorism is under way and when rapid intervention by the police can help prevent terrorist acts and apprehend the suspects. The most well-known example is probably the terrorist attacks on the Krudtønde and the synagogue in Copenhagen in February 2015, where video from surveillance cameras played a crucial role in the rapid location of the perpetrator. Fortunately, terrorist attacks of this kind are extremely rare in Denmark, and in the Enhedslisten we want it to be strictly defined when and under what circumstances the police can take over video surveillance. We have also taken note of the consultation responses from, among others. The Court of Justice and the IT-Police Association pointing to the fact that the boundaries of the bill are not clear enough. I agree with that. Several consultation responses, including: from the Institute for Human Rights, points out that it needs to be defined more clearly how long the police take-over of the video surveillance must last. Hearing replies also point to public access to information on when and where the police have taken over television surveillance. In the Enhedslisten, we agree that the draft law lacks much clearer boundaries. Conversely, we will not in principle deny that there may be situations in which the police may have access to take over television surveillance from private individuals. We will finally take a position on the specific proposal during the committee's work, where we will also ask questions about how this demarcation should be, and whether the government has proposals to make a clearer definition, so that it becomes clearer, and so that they counter the criticism of the Court and of the IT-Politic Association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225155651	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225155703	Unfortunately, over the past year, we have experienced one criminal act after another. Among other things: a police station and the Treasuries' buildings have been hit by explosions. Understandably, it makes the Danes insecure. In the fight against these criminals, our police need all the opportunities we can give them. In cases where it makes sense, this is done, among other things. by giving them the power to take over or use television surveillance held by other public authorities. In this way, the police are given the best conditions for solving and preventing crime, and our society becomes safer and safer. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225155751	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the alternative rapporteur, Mr President. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225155808	Thank you for the floor. We have had this debate many times, so I will be brief: we are not voting for the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225155821	That was short, thank you for that. There are also no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Pernille Vermund's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225155839	Thank you for the floor. The purpose of the L 103 Act amending the Code of Criminal Procedure is to give the police a better chance of gaining an overview of the conduct of a possible perpetrator. The bill gives the police access in exceptional situations to take over real-time television surveillance by other authorities and private individuals with the aim of preventing and investigating particularly serious crimes. New citizens support the overall objective of this proposal and the other proposals we are discussing today, namely to take far more action against criminal gangs than has been done so far. That is why we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225155925	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments. I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber. So the next person to speak is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225155941	Thank you for, I am sure, the most positive speeches that have been made here today. As the rapporteurs have also pointed out, one of our tasks and some of what I see as one of the most important tasks of the government is to ensure the safety of our citizens, because it is a fundamental prerequisite for a good life and because we all deserve to be safe. We adopt legislation because it is a tool to make our society better and safer and freer. I always listen attentively when the police ask for tools to help them achieve the perfectly legitimate objective of the rule of law, namely to be able to combat crime effectively. It may be essential, in the context of police prevention or investigation of particularly serious crimes, for the police to be able to get an overview of the whereabouts of potential perpetrators as soon as possible. In this context, rapid access to real-time television surveillance by other authorities and private individuals could be an appropriate tool. The purpose of the bill is therefore to allow the police to take over and use relevant television surveillance in exceptional situations. It may be with other public authorities or transport companies, shopping centres, football stadiums, housing organizations etc. The aim is to prevent or investigate particularly serious crimes, such as terrorist attacks. There are others who have mentioned gang violence, bomb explosions where human life or significant social values can be or are being put at risk. The proposal therefore helps to ensure that the police can better prevent and investigate particularly serious crimes and, in my opinion, it helps to make our society better and safer and, above all, freer. I would like to thank you for your comments and look forward to the further consideration of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225160131	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. No one has asked for a brief comment. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225160148	The debate is open. The first person to speak is Mr Seligman. Jeppe Bruus of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225160204	Thank you. The legislative proposal that we are now considering is the re-submission of a legislative proposal which was not dealt with. It's about strengthening police capabilities to operate online agents and using resources more efficiently. This means that it is about actually moving part of the agent company that can be done out in the offline world, the real world, some will say, over on the web, that the tools can also be used on the web, even when there is nothing going on today where the penalty is less than 6 years old. The police will also have the opportunity to buy rights and items, so that they can be included in the purchase. These could be things that are put up for sale online, and thus also be part of the investigation and investigation of crime. You also have opportunities to conduct a short-term and exclusively searching dialogue with potential sellers prior to acquisition, so that you can also use this in the investigation and investigation. In addition, it is also suggested that the number of people can be increased so that not only are people with a police background able to carry out some of this agency's activities. It is therefore a question of being able to keep up when crime moves on the Internet, and thus also of putting us even more strongly in the fight against, for example, arms trafficking, explosive substances, child pornography, etc. Not surprisingly, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225160355	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next is Mrs. Inger Løjberg, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225160406	Thank you. The draft law we are discussing here is, of course, part of the government's proposal on security and security in public spaces, but it is at the same time also a resubmission of the previous government's bill with a few minor adjustments. The proposal deals with the ability of the police to engage in agent activity when crimes are committed using the Internet. In the light of technological developments in society, there is an urgent need to provide the police with new tools to combat both the obvious and the hidden crime that is taking place online, especially when it comes to the circulation of stolen goods, the sale of drugs, child pornography or weapons and explosives. Here we see how the crimes have increasingly moved to the digital area. It is therefore important for the police to have the necessary tools to identify the perpetrators who exploit it and hide on the Internet, for example. behind false profiles that make it difficult for the police to find them, just as criminals use specially protected Internet forums that are difficult to penetrate. There may be, for example: be a website on which hash or drug trafficking takes place. I think most people, for example. has heard of The Silk Road, which was a worldwide black market for drugs, and it was used for many years to sell drugs of all kinds. But also the much smaller websites and small hidden networks are a distinct problem. Under the current rules, a police officer can only sit and wait for him to be offered a product. He is therefore not allowed to demand goods himself, such as: Weed, drugs or stolen goods. This is because the condition for the use of police agents is such that the investigation must deal with an offence punishable by imprisonment for six years or more. This therefore creates enormous restrictions on the ability of the police to be present and also to follow the Internet fora where the crimes are taking place and where the criminals are bouncing. In the Left, we are simply not interested in protecting the criminals. On the left, however, we would like to give the police the tools they need. The only real way to investigate this area is by giving the police the opportunity to use agents in the investigation, which, for example, by means of the police. False identity may appear to be buyers or similar. That is why we need to change the demand for the police to be able to initiate agent activity so that there is no longer a requirement for imprisonment for six years or more for precisely the aforementioned types of crime. We think this is the only way to deal with this type of crime and thus also have the opportunity to get rid of it. In addition, the existing rules on when the police can initiate agent activity will not be changed, and this means that the guarantees of legal certainty resulting from inter alia. the requirement of suspicion and the requirement of a court order will continue to be observed when the police initiate agent activity. We in the Left therefore believe that the legislative proposal has exactly the right balance between the need to combat crime on the Internet on the one hand and the need for legal certainty on the other. All in all, this is a sensible proposal and we fully support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225160758	Thank you. And there are no comments here either, so the next one is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225160808	Thank you very much. In 1995, Bill Gates thought the Internet was a 24-hour fly. While Microsoft introduced their brand new Windows 95, Bill Gates was very convinced that the internet was probably a fun little size, but he had a lot of other ideas on how to attract the big human masses. And what hasn't happened since then? It's not like it's small stuff. Everything has evolved, and unfortunately the criminals and crimes have also developed, and here we have to say that the net is pure slaraffenland. Some of the crime that is openly committed on the Internet is the sale of stolen goods and drugs, while other crime such as the sale of weapons, explosives and paedophile activities often takes place on the dark web or the dark web, as it is called, and it is obviously really difficult for the police to get in here. It is clear that when both the network and the criminals develop skillfully and find new ways, the police need to do the same. So now there is a need to give the police new investigative tools, and we must of course do so. It makes very good sense to extend police access to the use of agents in the investigation of certain forms of crime on the Internet so that they are better able to identify perpetrators hiding behind false profiles, etc. It's too easy to hide on the Internet and we have to do what we can to smoke the criminals out of there so the police can catch them. It is very good that you are now also much better able to get rid of child pornography. In this context, it is of course important to stress that the police must not, of course, pass on or ask for new material, since they are guilty of further violations. Of course, this will increase the ability of the police to catch more pedophiles, and that is something we can only welcome. Having said that, we in the Danish People's Party are sorry that the penalty can be so low to possess child pornography. We believe that the penalty should be much higher, because we are indirectly involved in violating a child when we look at the material that is being divided. You have to base this bill on the fact that the police will need more funds, including more officers. In the Danish People's Party we are in favour of 3,000 more people being trained over a 10-year period. Unfortunately, we also hear that the police schools today do not take up the number they really should because of savings. So it is our hope that the Minister will add more funds to the area so that the police can get better at catching the criminals.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225161046	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225161054	Thank you for the floor. Agent's business is something that must be taken care of and restrained as a starting point. Because in this way the police may be involved in committing, encouraging or contributing to crimes that may otherwise have not been committed. Therefore, there are also a number of strict requirements for agent business today. Among other things: where there is a reasonable suspicion that the offence is being committed or attempted, the action taken in the investigation shall be of decisive importance for the investigation and the investigation shall relate to an offence which may be committed under law for a period of six years or more. The proposal here is a resubmission of L 197 from the pre-election meeting, although there is a single supplement. We were cautiously positive at the time, and so are we today, and there is not much criticism in the hearings either. The main changes are the extension of the types of crime in relation to agent activities, so that they may also include the dissemination or sharing of child pornography, the purchase and sale of drugs, the purchase and sale of weapons and explosives. We think that makes sense because many of the very crimes often occur on such a very closed dark web, where it can be extremely difficult to get in, and where it may require an investigation of the nature of the agent business that has been set up here, so that you can get in at all, even if there are crimes with a penalty of less than six years. On the other hand, we think that we should perhaps be a little more hesitant about the part that is linked to heeling. It is also the type of crime among the new additions that has the lowest penalty frame, and we might fear a little that it could lead to a slippery path for the use of agents. The second condition is that the police should have the opportunity to acquire rights, objects or other material offered on the Internet to a certain extent, without it being subject to the rules of the agents, and we also welcome this with the consultation responses. The latter is about expanding the range of people who can carry out agent activities to ensure that police resources can be used most effectively, so that IT engineers, for example, can engage in agent activity on the dark web, and that it is not only police officials but also other police staff. We think that makes good sense, and we therefore welcome the draft law and look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225161354	Thank you. And there are no comments here either. Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt's Socialist People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225161409	Crime is moving over the Internet these years, so of course the police have to do that too. After all, we all have an interest in combating serious crimes such as child pornography, drug trafficking, illegal weapons and explosives, even if this is increasingly happening on the dark Internet or on more open platforms. Today it is not possible to use agents online when it comes to the crimes because the penalty is simply too low. Unfortunately, with the network's many possibilities, there are countless ways to maintain a market for precisely these crimes, because it is so incredibly easy for perpetrators to create new contacts and sell stolen goods or exploit children. That's why we need to change the access to agents, and we think that's a good idea. It happens with a ruling, so legal certainty is in order, and it is quite sensible. The same applies to the new possibility that the police may acquire items for sale online in order to reveal the identity of the perpetrator. This seems to me to be a pretty good idea, as it is so subversive to trust in each other when we are exposed to cheating, heeling and hoaxing on the Internet. Unfortunately, there is a lot of that, and we all heard that when we were visiting SØIK, where we were among others. the police circles heard about the efforts they are making in the area of financial crime so that there is clearly a need. Then I have also noticed that a great many people in their hearing say that they think there should be another court order in connection with the last task. And in the SF we tend to be completely ill with court orders, but right here we actually agree with the minister that when it is all about buying an item, you do not increase or provoke an action. This is not an intervention and, as I read it in the proposal, the possibilities offered by the police are very well fenced in, so there are clear conditions for when and how the police can get involved. It is simply a question of allowing good old-fashioned investigations to be carried out by examining matters more closely. On the other hand, I agree with those who would like to see an evaluation of these rules so that we can learn a little more about how they are then applied in practice. With my long-standing knowledge of the legal area, I could therefore imagine that doubts could arise as to whether the police have gone too far or are practicing it here within the framework. So I would also like the Minister for Justice's new independent supervision of technical evidence to include all the evidence, including those collected through this new opportunity. So to sum up, I would like to say that SF supports that the police are given the opportunity to go after the cybercrime which in these years plagues a great many Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225161654	Thank you. And we move on to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225161701	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten, we fully agree with the intentions behind this bill, which is to stop crime. It's very hard to disagree with. The Internet has given us many opportunities, and this has given us some new problems, namely that new forms of crime have arisen, but also that criminals have been given a new place to operate. Our penal code is simply not geared to the new forms of crime that we see on the Internet and which have also followed the increased digitisation that has taken place in our society. It's not just the examples that are mentioned in this bill. After all, it is also a question of online violations, sharing of insulting content and offensive images. We see, as the bill also describes, an increase in crime on the Internet: the sale of stolen goods, the sharing of insulting images, harassment, the sale of drugs, and that is a problem; I fully agree with that. That is why I also believe that we owe it to each other to have a thorough and slightly broader debate than the one proposed here today with this bill on how to deal with the various forms of crime on the Internet and what to do. Back to the draft law: I would say that I am unfortunately in doubt as to whether this bill will solve the problems. Firstly, it seems to me to be very serious to extend the use of agents, and I think it is important that we look at whether the benefits outweigh the disadvantages, because the risk of using agents is that it is really going to support people going further in their crime than they might have originally intended. The risk is also that the border between the lawbreaker and the law enforcement officer will be wiped out, as well as that the use of agents can lure people into committing any crime they would not otherwise have committed. In our view, it is clear that the creation of the Internet presents us with new challenges in the fight against crime, just as it was in the case of the invention of the mobile phone, the invention of the postal service, and that is how I can continue to mention the various new inventions that we know over time also the invention of the invisible ink for that matter. This was all part of creating new problems, in terms of how to combat crime, but the question is, of course, whether it justifies the use of precisely this investigative step, with the negative consequences it may have, and whether this exactly justifies a dispute with the limits previously found by a majority of this Parliament to be well-founded and well-intentioned. I really doubt whether this bill solves the problems, but to be perfectly honest, I do not know. Actually, I don't know. Because if it were only a question of a yes or no to fighting child pornography, fighting drug crime, fighting the sale of illegal weapons, then it would not be difficult. The difficult thing is to decide whether these crimes could still be solved and combated with more traditional police work without the use of agents. In this context, I would just like to refer to, and perhaps we should remind each other that criminals actually leave a lot of clear footprints on the web. So do the rest of us. So maybe we don't need this at all, but maybe we do. I am very interested in how to do in other countries • countries with which we usually compare ourselves. How do you use agents there? What's the use of agents in those countries? In addition, I am also in real doubt whether it is the use of agents who can really reveal false profiles. You mean, you expose yourself to another fake profile? I'm not sure. At the same time, I can see that there are advantages to this bill. I can also see that efforts have been made to establish very clear boundaries, and that is why we in the Enhedslist will await the work of the committee before we finally take a position on this bill. I would like answers on how to do this in other countries with which we are usually comparing ourselves. I would like answers to the real needs of the police for this. But I am certainly not dismissive, because if it turns out that this can actually solve crime, then it's a good thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225162144	Thank you. There are no comments, and then the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225162152	Thank you. The bill is a revised re-submission of a bill made by the former Minister of Justice in 2018-19. It must be made easier for the police to access what is called dark web and it must be made easier to find the perpetrators of crime on the Internet. The police must have extended access to the use of agents in the investigation, and then the circle of those who act as agents for the police must be expanded. We are in favour of this, because over the last few decades we have witnessed incredible technological development, and it is in both good and bad, because while everyday life has become easier for us in many ways, it has also given criminals completely new opportunities. We know that the Internet is being used by criminals to sell drugs, weapons and child pornography, but it is difficult for our police to access the dark part of the Internet where such things exist, and that makes it difficult for our intelligence services to put an end to this type of crime. That is why it is our job to provide the police and intelligence services with the best conditions for dealing with this type of crime. The Conservative People's Party therefore supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225162324	Thank you. The next one is sir. Sikandar Siddique, Enhedslisten. Here you go. Sikandar Siddique Alternativet). I'm sorry! That is the alternative, but I was confused that the rapporteur was standing there. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225162335	Thank you for the floor, President. The bill is a resubmission of Bill No. L 197, made on 13 March 2019 by the then Minister of Justice. It should be noted that Paragraph 1 (a) of the Bill states that: 3 whether the acquisition by the police of rights, objects or other material offered on the Internet to a certain extent is new to the original version of the bill and some legislative adjustments have been made. We look forward to the work of the committee and hope that we can have a proper discussion of the proposal and then we will see where we stand then. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225162417	Thank you. The next is Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225162424	The L 104 should give the police a better opportunity to investigate crime on the Internet. The bill extends police access to the use of agents in the investigation of cases of the spread and possession of child pornography as well as the sale of stolen goods, drugs, weapons and explosives when these offences are committed using the Internet. The bill also allows the police to acquire rights, objects or other material offered to a specific extent on the Internet without the application of agent rules. The bill extends the circle of persons who can carry out agency activities. When criminals find new ways to commit crimes, we have to give the police the opportunity to keep up. Criminals must not be allowed to escape, they must be caught, they must be judged, and, if they are aliens, they must be released consistently and after the first sentence. New citizens support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225162532	Thank you. Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225162540	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we also support the bill. We believe that it is natural that, when crime moves more and more over the Internet, the police and their powers, so to speak, must also keep up, and this also applies to the use of agents. There are some rules that limit the use of agents by the police, which are both smart and effective, and this means, among other things, that the police cannot use agents in the investigation of small offences, that it must be essential for the investigation and that there must be a reasonable suspicion. As we understand the draft law, this type of restriction applies, so to say, still, and that is also something that we attach importance to when we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225162628	Thank you. It's the Justice Minister's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225162632	Thank you for the very positive comments all around. We think it is important, as several people have said, with this opportunity to pursue crime on the Internet, to which crime moves over the fact that the police have the tools to do so, both in relation to the purchase of illegal items, but also in relation to the use of agents in cases, among others. on child pornography, stolen goods, drugs and weapons and explosives. So thank you for your positive support.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225162713	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225162729	The debate is open. Sir. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225162752	Thank you for that, President. The legislative proposal we are now considering is yet another step in the implementation of the security and security package presented by the government in the autumn. We have seen a tendency towards explosions in and around the Copenhagen area, and this is unfortunately something that reflects a situation which is very well known in Sweden and particularly widespread in the south of Sweden, where it is used as a deterrent and punishment, typically related to gang crime. This is not a phenomenon that we have seen so widely in the past, and we can therefore see, when we look at the criminal framework for the use of explosives, that it has probably lagged behind in some of the gang packages we have carried out in the past, when we have, after all, tightened the penalties massively, both against gang members and, above all, against the use of firearms. That is why the government has now put forward this bill, which is therefore about significantly tightening up the penalties for the use of explosives and thus also intensifying efforts against explosives. The draft law proposes that explosions aimed at public buildings and institutions should be regarded as attacks on the state, which means that in such cases the penalty could be extended by up to half. At the same time, the punishment for the possession of illegal weapons and explosives in public places will also be tightened up. It is therefore, on the one hand, to send out a signal that we should not engage in the use of explosives if we had not understood this in advance, and, on the other hand, to ensure that the penalties here follow the sharpenings we have made for other similar examples, for example. in relation to firearms in connection with the gang packages we have carried out. The Social Democratic Party naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225162956	Thank you. There are no comments. Mrs. Inger Løjberg, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225163011	Thank you. I thought the President said that I had a comment on the proposal. I do not, but I do have a rapporteur's speech which I would like to make. Because this summer we have witnessed a series of bomb blasts in Copenhagen which have endangered the lives of ordinary citizens and have also helped to create a legitimate insecurity in our capital. This is a threat to the normal life of society, and we should not accept that. The draft law we are discussing here today therefore also calls for the penalty to be increased by up to half in the case of explosions aimed at public buildings and institutions. In this way we put a thick line on the fact that we will never accept attacks on our community institutions or citizens, users, by attack of this nature in the future will be regarded as an attack on the state. According to the National Police, there is a connection between some of the bomb blasts in Copenhagen and the gang environment. Since autumn 2018, the gangs have been in conflict with each other again, and this has led to a wide range of explosions, car burns, killings and attempted murders. In other words, the gang warriors have created a serious situation in Denmark, which we are obliged to address, because it is our job to protect the Danes from the lusts that we see in these environments. We are also not interested in gang criminals from other countries crossing the Sound to carry out their crime here in Denmark. That is why we must take tough action against their illegal activities, and we believe that the bill here is a part of this. The draft law of the Ministry of Justice highlights a verdict in which a perpetrator brought five timed pipe bombs to detonate in a basement in a hospital. Here the bombs destroyed for a considerable amount, and at the same time he had placed five similar bombs in another hospital. Fortunately, the last five were found by the police before the blast took place. He got four years in prison. Another sentence is also highlighted, where a 33-year-old man threatened with a hand grenade and secured it around the life of a woman before he finally threw the grenade through a window, where it exploded and caused damage to DKK 250,000. He was sentenced to two years and six months in prison. These are not exactly new judgments, but they bear witness to the need to be tightened up in this area. The bombings that we have seen in Copenhagen, and which I have mentioned, belong in the most serious category of crimes, and that is why we in the Left believe that it is appropriate that the seriousness of the crimes be reflected in the punishment and that the penalties should be lifted. I can therefore say that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225163328	Thank you. There are no comments here either. Then it is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225163336	The explosions at public buildings and institutions create great insecurity in the population, and this is an attack on our community, and it is an attack on our country. Explosives endanger the lives of ordinary citizens and have created a threat to the security of citizens in their otherwise normal, quiet lives. It is therefore quite natural that the Danish law should reflect that it must be regarded as an attack on the state or an attack on Denmark when someone tries to blow up a local police station or another public building for that matter. Since it is not clear in the law today when it is a terrorist act, we will clarify it. Explosives aimed at public buildings or institutions are covered by section 114 A of the Criminal Code on acts similar to terrorism, and this is a crime against Denmark. Along with this, the penalty for possession of explosives and accessories must also be increased, so when the penalty is imposed for the illegal possession of weapons or explosives which, because of their extremely dangerous nature, are capable of causing serious damage, it must also be taken into account as an aggravating circumstance that one was in possession of it in a publicly accessible place or some other place where many people are travelling or staying. And we really welcome this in the Danish People's Party. However, we would like to hear a few examples of the type of punishment that could then be involved. But I hope that today we will make a good step forward in the fight against terrorist acts, and we will say 'yes' to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225163507	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225163517	Thank you for the floor. It is totally unacceptable when someone intends to create insecurity in workplaces or elsewhere in Denmark with explosives or bomb blasts, as happened this summer. It should be safe to go to work in Denmark. Fortunately, the explosions were not during working hours, but we are not necessarily that lucky every time, and those who did should know that the hammer is falling here. The initiatives in this bill are divided into two parts. This concerns, among other things: that, in future, explosions against public buildings should be regarded as attacks on the state and actually moved into the terrorist chapter of the penal code. So this is not a new criminalisation. The aim is that the penalty can then be increased by up to half, even if the penalty in Section 183 of the Criminal Code. However, 1 and 2 are already 12 years and lifetime respectively. So it is perhaps a little limited what an increase like will have of effect, since for example lifetime cannot be increased. And so it is already possible to increase the penalty by up to half. You can look at section 81B of the Criminal Code, which I will quote here: "If one of the offences referred to in this law is dealt with in the criminal code in the public domain through the use of firearms or weapons or explosives which, due to their extremely dangerous nature, are capable of causing significant damage, cf. 1, without prejudice to Article 81a, the penalty may be increased by up to half. So it can actually already take place. So the first part of the bill is that you move the paragraph on criminalisation somewhere else and, like, mark and signal that this is an attack on the state. This does not apply to the other part of the bill to tighten up the penalties for the illegal possession of weapons other than firearms and explosives in the public domain or in other places where people move or stay. There you want to raise the penalty by a third, and there's no one who just walks around with explosives or something like that for fun. So it is planned that it can now be raised from a measurement of between 2 years 8 months and 3 years and then increased to between 31⁄2 years and 4 years. So the Radical Left immediately looks at this in a positive light, because no one is carrying bombs or explosives for fun.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225163819	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225163848	It is quite untenable when there is such a new trend that creeps in in Denmark, where criminals seem to have learned from the Swedes and have started using explosives to scare each other and authorities with. It's dangerous, and it can go really wrong if there are other people around. Fortunately it hasn't gone so far, but it's unheard of and unanswered to do something like that in front of the police station and the Treasury, as we've seen. In Sweden, unfortunately, it has been a trend for a long time, and there has been quite a lot of evidence, and I do not think that should be the case in Denmark. I am in favour of the fact that, as mentioned in the consultation answers, the penalty is not necessarily preventive and that it is therefore not in principle worth making it more stringent. That is, of course, true because the investigations we have on penalties show that punishment has a general preventive effect. This means that they prevent a large majority from committing crime, but more punishment typically does not result in a major fall in crime. That's what the research says. However, in the SF, we still think that we would like to support this proposal. Now, of course, we do not know the background to the explosions at the Tax Authority and the police station completely, but if it is a question of blasting bombs outside public buildings in an attempt to scare the authorities and send a signal that they do not want to do their job, then we do agree that it goes against terrorist-like circumstances and must be punished as such. We simply cannot have that. In addition, it does not make sense that the legislation on firearms and explosives should not go hand in hand. That is the case today, when it is an aggravating circumstance if you bring a gun in public space. But that is not the case for explosives, and it is of course strange that it may then seem like a kind of attenuating circumstance if you have something like that with you. Of course, it needs to be changed, so on that basis we say yes in the SF to the bill. And then I have promised to announce from the Alternative, which unfortunately cannot be here, that they are setting a yellow vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225164101	Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225164109	Thank you. I really think that the previous rapporteurs have explained very well what the draft law is about. However, I think that the draft law contains some dilemmas. Because I fully agree that we need to do something about this, that it is very, very violent and that action must be taken against it when we see explosions in Copenhagen, no matter what the objective is. But, of course, it is particularly serious and I think it is also an expression of something that we need to investigate when it is public authorities that are the target of the explosions. We must, of course, distance ourselves from this. There is no doubt about that. At the same time, we also know that raising the penalty does not work as a preventive measure. I think one can argue for doing so anyway here, both because it is so serious, plus that I also understand the Government's intention to send a signal. On the other hand, is it not already possible in the penal code to give a higher penalty here? At least we would have liked to have that checked in the Enhedslisten. I would also like to say that I always think it is a good idea to make stricter rules when it comes to explosives, that is, stricter arms legislation. I think that would actually be a good answer here too. That is why, in the Enhedslisten, we are actually quite positive about this bill, but we would like to clarify in committee what else is possible in the penal code to give a higher penalty here. Because there are some options in advance, at least as far as I have examined, and I would like us to take up this jointly in committee and look at that. However, I think, from the point of view of the draft law, that it is sensible, especially because it could also lead to a debate on whether we should not have even stricter arms legislation and even stricter legislation on explosives than the one we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225164327	Thank you. I understand there is a brief comment from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225164334	Thank you. It is actually such a general question about Enhedslisten's view of it with penalties, because when it comes to criminal offences, in other words criminal offences, where criminals, criminals go out and do things and things, we often hear things from the Enhedslisten that it might not help to raise the penalty. However, if it is about penalties for business or traffic or penalties for violating environmental rules, etc., we will never hear from the Enhedslisten that raising the penalties will not help. There, the Enhedslisten would like to contribute to the lifting of sentences. What is actually the reason why when it comes to black-and-white criminals who turn people into lizards and stealers etc., bring explosives to detonation, Enhedslisten has the view that it probably doesn't help, while in all other cases it helps?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225164425	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225164428	Well, in the Enhedslisten, we're preoccupied with making punishment that works, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. And there is just the fact that in some places we can see that it does not work, that is to say it does not stop crime to increase the penalty, but it does do so elsewhere. Then I would just like to inform Mr. Mr. Ole Birk Olesen says that we also believe that the penalty should be higher for financial crime and that we should actually join Mr. Olesen. Ole Birk Olesen back in 2018 helped raise the penalty for digital sexual abuse.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225164457	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225164459	Well, we in the Liberal Alliance believe that it very often helps to raise the penalties, and that applies, whether it is people who commit violence or theft, or whether it is people who commit financial crime or illegal pollution, or people who are drivers who sleep illegally in their cabs, where the Enhedslisten has recently helped to raise the penalty. It always helps if it's a topic that Enhedslisten cares about, you can hear, but higher penalties obviously do not help when it's the subject of caring for people's lives and health and property.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225164537	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225164539	Well, we care a lot about caring for people in Denmark, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. That way we don't weigh crime. What fills us is whether it has a preventive effect and whether it is punishment that works. If everything points to the fact that punishment does not work, then perhaps something else should be done, because what is the purpose of our punishment? Of course, punishment is intended to satisfy this fluffy concept we call the sense of justice, but the real purpose is to stop crime, and we must therefore look at whether the level of punishment we set has a preventive effect. I think that in some places it may well have such a general preventive effect, but that elsewhere it does not. It is, of course, an assessment that we must make on a case-by-case basis; I just do not think it can be said that higher penalties always work or that higher penalties never work. That is not the way the political debate works.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225164630	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Then it's mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225164636	Thank you. The bill introduces an increase in penalties for breaches of Article 183 of the Penal Code. One or two about explosions if the crime is committed against public buildings. In future, it must be an aggravating circumstance if, in public places, you are in possession of weapons other than firearms, for example. Hand grenades. The penalty level must be raised by about a third. We think this is very sensible and we support it. In Denmark we have witnessed a number of crimes and explosions in connection with public buildings. Some people want to hit us and make us uncomfortable. That is not the way Denmark should be, because it creates insecurity among the population and it poses a risk to our security. That is why we must punish those people who want to harm us. In the Conservative People's Party, we believe that crime must have consequences. You shouldn't get away with it easily if you turn our society into an insecure place. That is why it must be severely penalised if you are a danger to society, and that is why we support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225164752	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225164803	The draft law we are discussing is part of the previously discussed and dealt with action against criminal groups which, with bombings and shootings, create fear and insecurity in our society. The bill shall increase the penalties for explosions directed at public buildings and the penalty for the illegal possession of weapons other than firearms when the weapon or explosive is held in a public place or other place where people often move or reside. What we have seen unfolding in Denmark, the raison d'être of our society, and what we witnessed only this summer, must cease. New citizens support one hundred percent of the efforts made against criminal gangs, bomb blasts and shootings must be stepped up. That is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225164909	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225164918	Fortunately, the explosions that we experienced in Copenhagen over the summer have calmed down, at least for now, but that does not mean that we should sit on our hands here in Parliament. It's gonna happen again, so let's see if we can do anything about it. If nothing else, the explosions have brought to light a problem in the legislation. As the penal code is today, one can only increase one's sentence if one brings explosives to detonation or fires a firearm in a public place or other place where people often move or stay. But we want to prevent it from going there at all. It is therefore also a good thing that the government is now taking the initiative to raise the penalty only by possession of explosives and firearms in a publicly accessible place or other place where people often move or stay by a third. We support this in the Liberal Alliance, and that is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225165020	Thank you. Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225165024	I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the overall positive comments that have been made. And again: This is about the safety of the Danes, and the possession of explosives and explosives in public spaces, as has also been said, not only endangers the lives of ordinary citizens, but also creates a fundamental insecurity and fear for residents in the affected areas and employees in the jobs affected. It is already the case today that it is an aggravating circumstance if a firearm is held in a public place. Similarly, we believe that explosives should be covered. Everything else is equally at greater risk of possession of explosives in public places than in places where no human beings are present, and this should be reflected in the punishment. At the same time, we want to ensure that explosions aimed at public buildings and institutions are to be regarded as an attack on the state. When explosions are caused against public buildings or institutions, this is an attack on our community, which must be treated as such, that is. like a terrorist act. This means, among other things, that the penalty must be increased by up to half. The bill is intended to help ensure security and security in our society. It is important that we signal that explosions in public spaces are completely unacceptable and that in future we will hit it even harder. As I said, I should like to thank you for your comments and look forward to further consideration and will, of course, answer the questions that have been raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225165210	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225165219	The debate is open. And this is sir. Jeppe Bruus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225165235	Thank you for the floor. We need a modern and effective administration of justice in the Faroe Islands. It's about time. The current Faroese Code of Procedure was adopted in 1988 and since then it has only been amended a few times in comparison with the Danish Code of Procedure. Against this background, there has been work in progress to update it and get a modern law on justice in the Faroe Islands. The most important innovations in the draft law are to ensure a Faroese anchoring, among other things. that the Real Ombudsman in the Faroe Islands is to deal with applications for a free procedure, which is currently being dealt with by the Civil Service Agency, and in addition that the Process Authorisation Board is to be joined by a Faroese lawyer instead of by a Danish lawyer in handling Faroese applications for an appeal authorisation, and at the same time also to the extent that it is possible that Østre Landsret and Sø- og Handelsret are based on the Faroe Islands. In addition, there must be more efficient and more effective handling of civil cases. Since 1988, the Danish Code of Civil Procedure has introduced a number of amendments aimed at improving the effectiveness of the handling of civil proceedings. The bill provides for the transfer of these amendments to the Faroese Code of Criminal Procedure. Then this bill also calls for the 2007 police reform to be carried out in the Faroe Islands, so that the Faroese police are treated in the same way as the other police circles, and that the independent police prosecutor's office has to deal with behavioral barriers and reports of offences committed by police officers in the Faroe Islands. Finally, it is suggested that a system of judges adapted to Faroese circumstances should be introduced in the Faroe Islands and that in future questions of guilt in jury cases can be tested in two bodies. Social democracy supports the bill. And I promised to welcome the rapporteur by the Radical Left, Martin Lidegaard, and to say that the Radical Left also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225165440	Thank you. The next is Mrs. Inger Løjberg, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225165447	Unfortunately, as our rapporteur cannot be here, I am the one who is taking it. The proposal, which we are discussing here today, is helping to modernise the Faroese Code of Criminal Procedure. The legislation in force dates back to 1988 and since then the law has only been amended ten times. By comparison, we have amended the Danish Code of Procedure over 200 times. So I think it is safe to say that there is a need for an update of the current Faroese Code of Criminal Procedure. The preparatory work for this draft law was already started under the previous government. About 3 years ago, a working group was set up by the Ministry of Justice with representatives from among others. The Faroe Islands' Home Government and the Faroe Islands Police, as well as many others who have been involved in drafting this bill. The bill contains very impressive more than 1,100 paragraphs, which means that the bill contributes to the biggest change in the Faroese judiciary for more than 30 years. The draft law therefore provides for a radical amendment of the Faroese Code of Criminal Procedure so that it becomes much more up-to-date and at the same time takes into account Faroese culture and history. Against this background, the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225165613	Thank you. Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225165620	With more than 1,000 paragraphs, it is a very comprehensive amendment to the Faroe Islands' Code of Procedure which is to be dealt with first here today. And it's been a long time coming. Everyone seems to agree that there is a need for an up-to-date law on the administration of justice in the Faroe Islands. Last time it was changed was more than 30 years ago. The amendment of the Code of Procedure has also been made at the request of the Faroe Islands. Among other things, the proposal provides that the 2007 police reform will also take effect on the Faroe Islands, whereby the police of the Faroe Islands will be treated in the same way as the rest of the Kingdom's police circles. The Danish People's Party can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225165704	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225165720	I shall read out a very brief speech from our rapporteur, Karsten Hønge, who cannot be here today. We note that this new Code of Procedure is the result of a working group set up in the Ministry of Justice. And we would just like to note that it is important that the Faroese lawyers have sufficient time to adapt to the new rules on the right of access to justice. We welcome the fact that the Ministry of Justice has taken this into account in the proposal. Against this background, we can support the proposal, and we should also welcome the alternative and say that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225165810	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225165824	Thank you. It is not so difficult for Enhedslisten to decide on things about the Faroe Islands and Greenland. Normally, we say that if it is not contrary to human rights, we agree with what Greenland finds should apply in their own country. However, I would like to say a few words about these things. Indeed, I have not been able to see that something is undermining human rights in the Faroe Islands. There may be, because there are 1,101 paragraphs to go through, and it could be that something had slipped along the way. I would say that this is the fifth time we have worked with the administration of justice in the Faroe Islands while I have been in the Folketing, and it has been equally exciting every time. Sometimes it has been about quite serious things, and sometimes it has been adjustments, and this time I would like to mention one thing that I think is very, very positive, and that is that there is now an education in the Faroe Islands in the legal field, so that they can train their own judges, lawyers, lawyers, and what I think is even better: that these people who get that education have the right to work as lawyers, lawyers and judges throughout the community. In the old days or before we adopted it here it was said that it was to be an education taken in Denmark, and it was a little unfair to the other two countries of the Kingdom community. So I look forward to that, and when it really gets under way, I also think it is an advantage for the Faroese legal system that they have their own convicts who are trained in this area. We know that, although such a paragraph is a paragraph, understanding of culture, way of life, language and all sorts of other things is extremely important in determining things in a fair way. So I would like to congratulate the Faroe Islands on having taken these steps forward. I understand from the debate in the Latting that there are still ideas for improvement, but at least now some sort of update has been made on the procedural law that was there in advance, and I hope that the Faroese will have all sorts of good luck in using the new law on justice, so that things become even easier and even fairer and feel even fairer for the Faroese. Then I look forward to seeing when they themselves fill all the posts in the judicial system in their own territory, and that we get the first births to Denmark to settle cases in the Danish courts. It could also be exciting. We can recommend voting in favour of the comprehensive proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225170118	Thank you. There are no comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225170130	Thank you. Since our rapporteur, Rasmus Jarlov, cannot be here, I take the matter. The aim of the draft law is to modernise the Faroe Islands' Code of Procedure, which was introduced in 1988. It is the authorities in the Faroe Islands who have asked for modernisation, which we warmly welcome. I note with great satisfaction that the new Code of Procedure has been drawn up in close cooperation with the Faroese authorities, which ensures a stronger Faroese anchoring. For example, it is positive that the richman in the Faroe Islands has to deal with the applications for free process, which are currently being dealt with by the Danish Civil Service. The implementation of the police reform in the Faroe Islands will ensure that the police of the Faroe Islands are treated in the same way as the other police circles. The general modernisation of the Faroese Code of Criminal Procedure also includes a number of measures that will strengthen the Faroese judiciary. Here, among other things, can be found. mention is made of the digitisation of the judicial process and the effectiveness of the handling of civil proceedings. The Conservative People's Party can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225170247	Thank you. Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225170254	Thank you for the floor. Today we are discussing a very comprehensive bill of no less than 1,101 paragraphs, the L 101 bill on a new law on the administration of justice in the Faroe Islands. The current law on the administration of justice for the Faroe Islands dates back to 1988 and has only to a limited extent been updated subsequently compared to the Danish Code of Procedure and is therefore deemed to be inappropriate. The new proposal for a law on the administration of justice for the Faroe Islands, which we are considering today, has been drawn up at the request of the Faroese authorities, and the Faroese authorities have participated in the drafting of the bill and it has been a thorough consultation with Faroese authorities and organisations. In New Citizens, of course, we support the Faroese wish for more up-to-date legislation, and that is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225170345	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225170353	We in the Liberal Alliance can endorse the good arguments for voting through this bill. We will do the same. We're voting for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225170405	Thank you. I don't know if anyone forgot a pen like that or if it's for me. So I'm just saying thank you to whoever left it. Sir. Edmund Joensen is not here. Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225170420	Thank you for that and thank you for the good reception this proposal has received. It is the case that in 2017, my own party chairman, who was then a layerman, Aksel Johannesen, made a wish to the Danish Minister of Justice to have a working group set up to look at the Faroese Code of Criminal Procedure, because it was aft-sailed in many areas. The Danish had changed over 200 times more than the Faroese. It is the case that even if you have your own legislation in the Faroe Islands, your own laws in all areas, the legal system is the same. The Faroese court is what corresponds to an urban court and has the status of an urban court. This means that when cases proceed from the Faroese law, the court in the Faroe Islands, to the Østre Landsret or to the Supreme Court, it is suddenly another law of procedure. That is, of course, very problematic. So a group was set up in 2017 that has since been working on this. There have been authorities from different sides and all sorts of organisations of interest, and the proposal that is now on the table has been agreed, and I am pleased that it will receive a great deal of support. My own party has wanted some changes that have not come through, but I have to live with that, for example. that the Faroe Islands became a permanent member of the Independent Police Prosecutor's Office. There was no majority in favour of this; this was not agreed in the Faroe Islands. We have wanted to change the system so that Faroese can be formally spoken in the court of the Faroe Islands. There was no majority in favour of this. It is thus possible to speak Faroese, and Faroese is in fact the most widely used language in the court. It is accepted, but formally the language is Danish. We would like to change that, but there was no majority in favour of it. And then, as some of the rapporteurs have said, the training for lawyers in the Faroe Islands is what we would like to see treated equally. This is something that we understand we need to find out as soon as the Faroese education has progressed. So that's something we believe in going all right. The proposal was adopted by 22 votes in favour and 11 against in the Faroe Islands, which is why I believe, as several rapporteurs have also said, that there is nothing else to do but say yes to this, because it is the will of the Faroese system. So I would like to thank you for your great goodwill on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225170652	Thank you. And then it's the Justice Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225170703	Thank you for all the positive statements. There seems to be broad support both in the Faroe Islands, but also here in the Folketing, for the proposal for a new law on the administration of justice for the Faroe Islands. I am pleased about that, and I am, in fact, particularly on behalf of the Faroe Islands. It is important for the government to ensure that in all parts of our Kingdom community there is a modern and up-to-date administration of justice. As has also been mentioned, the current Faroese Code of Procedure has been adopted back in 1988, well back in 1988, and since then has been amended quite a few times in comparison with the Danish Code of Procedure. The Faroese Code of Procedure is simply no longer up to date. In view of this and at the particular request of the Faroese authorities, a proposal for a new law on the administration of justice for the Faroe Islands has been drawn up. The draft law has been prepared by a working group set up by the Ministry of Justice, which among other things: has consisted of representatives of the Faroe Islands' Home Government, the Faroe Islands Police, the Faroese Lawyer Association. The draft law has been 3 years in the process and contains, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned, more than 1,100 paragraphs. It is, in fact, one of Denmark's largest legislative proposals, which the Danish Parliament is today examining first. In preparing the bill, the Ministry of Justice and the Working Group have focused on three points in particular. Firstly, it has been important to ensure a Faroese anchoring of the administration of justice. This is proposed, among other things. Therefore, that the Rigsombudsmanden in the Faroe Islands is to deal with the applications for free process which are currently being dealt with by the Civil Service Agency. It is proposed that the Procedural Authorisation Board be joined by a Faroese lawyer in dealing with Faroese appeals and that it should be stated in the Code of Procedure that the Østre Landsret and the Maritime and Commercial Court should be established in the Faroe Islands as a starting point when the court deals with cases under the Faroese Code of Procedure. Secondly, it has been important to improve the effectiveness and strengthening of the rules on the handling of civil proceedings. Following the adoption of the Faroese Code of Criminal Procedure back in 1988, the Danish Code of Criminal Procedure introduced a number of amendments aimed at improving the effectiveness of civil proceedings. The draft law also provides for the implementation of the amendments to the Faroese Code of Criminal Procedure. Thirdly, the focus has been on creating a modern police force and strengthening legal certainty in criminal proceedings. The draft law provides for the 2007 police reform to be carried out in the Faroe Islands, thus equalising the Faroese Police and the other police circles in Denmark. It is also proposed that the Independent Police Prosecutor's Office should deal with behavioral complaints and reports of offences committed by police officers in the Faroe Islands. This means that in future complaints against the police are treated with the same independence as in Denmark. The Faroe Islands have welcomed the new proposal for a law on the administration of justice for the Faroe Islands, and the Latting approved, as Mr. Sjúrður Skaale also mentioned, the bill without amendments in September with the votes 22 for and 11 against. To sum up briefly, the draft law provides for up-to-date treatment of both criminal and civil proceedings. The draft law creates the framework for a strong justice system, and I think we can all agree that a strong justice system is a prerequisite for a well-functioning society with both security and freedom. As I began by saying, it is important for the government to ensure that in all parts of the Kingdom community there is a modern and up-to-date administration of justice. And the bill we are discussing today is entirely in line with that wish. A future Faroese procedural law must be kept up-to-date, and therefore an annual meeting between representatives from the Ministry of Justice and the Home Rule Government of the Faroe Islands will be held in the future. Current issues relating to justice in the Faroe Islands and, of course, amendments to the Faroese Code of Procedure can be discussed here. In addition, there is, of course, an ongoing dialogue between the Ministry of Justice and the National Government, and I myself have meetings with our members of parliament who have been elected in the Faroe Islands. With those comments, I should like to thank you once again for your speeches. I look forward to further discussion in the Folketing and, of course, I am available to answer questions in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225171132	There's just one question. Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225171139	Thank you. I look forward to further treatment. I've been wondering if we should ask the minister to come and review each paragraph... it could be a festive afternoon. However, I would like to thank the government for waiting until the Faroe Islands have dealt with the proposal. We have been so busy on several occasions around Greenlandic and Faroese legislation that they have not finished the treatment up there. And I think this should be the norm, so we're actually waiting until they're done up there. I have a question. It says: Why would the Ministry of Justice not give the recognition that, of course, the first level in the Faroe Islands can be dealt with in their own language?
ParlaMint-DK_20200225171228	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225171229	It is important that all parties understand each other during a trial. And it appears from the bill that the main language of the court is Faroese, but that Danish can also be used. It also appears from the draft law that the appointment of judges, judges and prosecutors places particular emphasis on knowledge of the Faroese language. Where a party or witness does not have sufficient knowledge of the Faroese or Danish language for that matter, a translator or interpreter shall be summoned as far as possible. In this way, I think it is possible to ensure that all the parties understand each other during the proceedings, which is, of course, at the heart of the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225171312	Thank you. That's it. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Faroes Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200225171324	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 26 February 2020, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
