ParlaMint-DK_20200428132010	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428132013	The item listed as No. 1 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428132035	Before we start the debate, I would like to point out that we in the Bureau have decided to change the way in which the debate is conducted. The amendment means that all speakers are both ministers and rapporteurs and the short remarks are taken from the seats of the Members. In order to prepare the minutes, it is very important that you do not start talking until the red ring on your microphone lights up. As usual, you will be able to see the remaining speaking time at the bottom right of the voting panel. For the third reading of Bill No. No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428132125	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. When you have cast your vote, please leave the Chamber. This does not, of course, apply to the Minister. That concludes voting time. The vote was taken on the 35th paragraph of Rule 35 of the Rules of Procedure. 2, 1. (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), against 0, abstained 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428132757	Before we start the debate, I would like to point out that we in the Bureau have decided to change the way in which the debate is conducted. The change means that all speakers, both ministers and rapporteurs and members with brief comments, will be taken from the seats of the members. In order to prepare the minutes, it is very important that you do not start talking until the red ring on your microphone lights up. As usual, you will be able to see your remaining speaking time at the bottom right of the voting panel. The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Bjarne Laustsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428132856	Thank you. Unfortunately, we are still living in an uncertain time. Many of us who remember the end of the Cold War had both hoped and believed that we could reap the peace dividend and thus face a more secure future; unfortunately that was not the case. That is why we need to have a strong and combatable defence. with the purchase of the new and upcoming F-35 fighters. Now we must ensure that they can be used and maintained as agreed in the defence settlement. The development and operation of Flystation Skrydstrup is of crucial importance for Danish defence and thus for Denmark's safety. That is why, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I am pleased that a broad conciliation circle has agreed on the future of the air station. With this bill, we create the framework for Denmark to continue to participate in collective defence through NATO and, in addition, to participate in international missions. In addition, the bill creates the basis for the new F-35 fighters to operate from the flight station when the first aircraft arrives expected in 2023. It's been taking off and landing fighters at the airfield for the last 40 years. In 2004, together, we decided to move the country's F-16 aircraft from, among others. Aalborg and gather them all at Flystation Skrydstrup. Since we made that decision, we've invested over 960 million. kr. in the flight station in Skrydstrup, which has created more jobs and increased growth in the area. The abolition of the new F-35 combat aircraft is, and will continue to be, one of Denmark's biggest public investments in Skrydstrup. In 2016 we again made a decision to assemble the upcoming F-35 aircraft in Skrydstrup. It's good for the defense, and it's good for the local area. The airfield has for many years created the framework for many jobs in and around Skrydstrup, and the new fighters will create even more jobs. Right now there are about 930 jobs linked to the flight station, and more will come in. The Ministry of Defence estimates that once the new fighter planes are fully implemented, there will be approximately 1,000 jobs associated with the flight station. I understand that there were many local politicians about the bid when we had to take the decision on the financing of the F-35s, and there are still many mayors who would give their right hand to get such a large public place of work in their municipality. If I lived in Skrydstrup, I would be proud to have Denmark's fighter plane as my neighbor. The new F-35 aircraft are not only helping to strengthen Denmark's defence and security; it is also helping to keep the local area going. By comparison, the area around Air Force Station Krarup has been the framework for many defense employees for many years • the same is the case in Skrydstrup. Social democracy recognises that the new aircraft are louder than the old ones, and we would like to have a good neighbourhood, but all activity is louder; it does not matter whether you live near a motorway or next to an airport. For Flight Station Skrydstrup the flight pattern will be the same as it has been for the past 40 years. The new F-35 aircraft, like the current F-16 aircraft, will fly twice a day on Monday to Thursday and once a Friday, as well as when it comes to flying rejection preparedness, which is an integral part of Denmark's sovereignty enforcement and preventive security. The noise from the aircraft will most often have a maximum duration of 10 minutes, and this is a condition that has prevailed in Skrydstrup over the past many years, and the new aircraft will not change the number of flights, but that does not mean that no residents are affected. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party are also pleased with the compensation scheme offered to citizens around the flight station. We offer fair and generous compensation for those citizens who should experience genes from the flight station. This is an arrangement which, after thorough analysis and discussion, we have reached together across the parties, which is the most just one, and that is why I believe that the new proposal will not be able to make the system fairer. With this bill, we offer voluntary purchase of homes that are particularly affected and individual noise insulation or a cash amount to others. In addition, we offer recalculation of the noise image as well as a waiting period to collect the compensation offer. It is a fair and rational approach to the expansion and continued operation of the flight station. Many have tried to predict the development of house prices around Skrydstrup, in connection with the preparation of the compensation scheme, some believe that they will fall as a result of the new fighter planes and the noise they cause. The truth is, not many people know about that. But we know that house prices are sensitive to economic crises, which often leads to a reduction in the number of jobs, which means school closures and watering down of the local economy; of course no one is interested in that. Therefore, the acquisition of the new fighter aircraft is also a good thing for the citizens of Skrydstrup. This means that jobs are maintained in the local area and thus create growth in and around Skrydstrup. This is contrary to what others think is all else equally positive for house prices, as it creates stability and growth in the local area. I know that the neighbours to the defence establishments in other parts of the country are proud and happy to house parts of the Danish defence. The neighbours to Flystation Skrydstrup can also be proud to house Denmark's new fighter aircraft. It contributes to the local environment, creates jobs and secures Denmark's citizens from unauthorized guests. I am also proud to be a Social Democrat myself, of course, but also of having been involved in purchasing it has been an important choice and creating the framework for the expansion and upgrading of the Danish defence, and with this bill we ensure that we are fully in line. Let me just conclude by saying that our new Minister for Defence, Mrs Trine Bramsen, has negotiated a compensation of up to 250 million. kr. That is ten times as much as the previous bourgeois government came forward with. That is why, of course, the Social Democrats support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428133508	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428133516	Thank you. In considering the draft law here, we in the Defence Committee have had a number of appearances, among others. a man who entered the wheelchair. He told us that he had been the victim of a car accident many years ago, but despite his misfortune and the fact that since he could not walk, he had never before felt so hindered in his options as he is now, after he has ended up in a situation where he is exactly on the wrong side of the divide between the red and the yellow zone, and where he has been told that his house has lost so much value that, now that he is facing a refinancing of his loan, he cannot refinance it. So he really has two choices, or he has only one, and it's a foreclosure. What does the Social Democratic Party think about creating a compensation model which does not allow a man like him here to have an independent assessment of whether the loss on his property is, as he is described, or whether it is reasonable for him to be compensated, as the compensation model lays down?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428133626	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428133627	Thank you. Now I've been in here for many years and been with you all along. We cannot make legislation after emotions or after what people have been subjected to. We need to make a proposal based on objective criteria, as was done in this proposal, and it is about the noise to which the various residents are exposed. They have then been placed into a red zone there you can buy; and a yellow zone there you can get compensation. And there will always, no matter what lines we draw, be some who live on one side or the other, or some who fall on the wrong side of where they would otherwise have liked to have been. So that does not change the situation, but the most important thing for us is that it has been done properly. And if, when the new aircraft are implemented, it turns out that the actual noise is higher than what we assume in the calculations here, then we offer in turn an opportunity to get it calculated and perhaps get people who are today in the yellow zone into the red zone. But I think it's the right approach to have to do this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428133733	Mrs Pernille Vermund, on another brief point.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428133735	That is a cynical approach to human life. Well, the fact is that the model that is now in place is a politically adopted model. It is politically decided where the border should go. What we are proposing is that, if you are in a situation where you find yourself on the wrong side of the border, you have the opportunity to have an independent assessment, not a politically agreed assessment, but an independent assessment. And this man doesn't have the opportunity to wait until 2023 or 2024. He's about to refinance his loan now, and that's why he's in a terrible mess. Is the Social Democracy not at all willing to look at the people who are in this situation where they end up in, yes, the claws at us?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428133817	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428133819	Thank you for the question. I understand perfectly well that there are citizens who may feel affected by one thing or another, but that does not change the fact that we have made a very, very broad agreement that is consolidated and that the assessment is that the state is not a general liability. That is why we are offering a compensation scheme so that citizens are free to take action against the state. Then we give some amounts and those you may think are large or small but you have made a scheme that is not seen like in Denmark in relation to terms: the period over which it extends, recalculation, rehousing, all sorts of things and cases. We have done this because we wanted to do this, and that, of course, is also why we are giving out 250 million. kr. instead of 25 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428133900	Thank you, sir. Bjarne Laustsen has long since been used. There are no more brief remarks to Mr. Bjarne Lausten. That is why we are moving forward in the series of speeches, and it is now the rapporteur of the Liberal Group, Mr von der Vring. Karsten Lauritzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428133917	Thank you. In the Left we are concerned with Denmark's defence, that we can enforce our sovereignty, that we are a member of a defence alliance that serves the interests of Denmark and the Danes' protection and our defence, namely NATO. Part of being part of that protection community is that we, like many other NATO countries, have bought some new fighter planes. They must be somewhere and, as the Socialist rapporteur said, they make more noise than the old ones. It was under a Left Defense Minister that the defence committee decided to buy new F-35 aircraft. It was a wise and correct decision. Now the planes have to be placed. A plant is to be built. That's what this bill is all about. We must, of course, make progress on this in as fair and fair a way as possible. In the Left, therefore, we are also very keen to do so by this bill, as is the case with everyone else, that the citizens affected by the legislation in this Chamber feel reasonably treated and have the opportunity to be heard. That's right, sir. Bjarne Laustsen said that the model here is better than that of the previous government. I'd like to sign for that. It is not quite true, however, that this is due solely to the Socialist Government, because the Socialist Government set out to improve what the previous government was working on, and then we were some parties, also some new defence rapporteurs, who said: when we look at this, we do not really think that what the new government is proposing is quite right either. That is why we jointly arrived at the model that is here, which means that you will be compensated for noise, at least to a certain extent. One of the things we have fought for in the Left is that you can choose to get some money paid out in cash so that the property owners at Flystation Skrydstrup or the neighbors can get the same treatment as the metronians in Copenhagen, who also got cash when building the metro. What then is the discussion here today, and it is also the question that is being asked that will certainly be asked more questions ■ is whether what lies is reasonable. We in the Left thought so when we reached the agreement, and that is why we stand by the agreement, but, as in all other conciliations, agreements and legislation that we have agreed to, we would also like to go into the committee procedure and in the conciliation circle and discuss whether there are some things that will make things even better. That is why we will delve into the hearing answers that have come and in the representations that come to the Defence Committee, and then we will hope that the Minister for Defence will discuss with the parties behind the agreement whether there are some places where improvements need to be made. And, of course, if we agree that it is not anywhere, we will vote in favour, but if there are some places where the citizens actually have some sensible points, I think we should look at them together and see if they are reasonable and find a fair solution. We in the Left declare ourselves willing to do so. At the same time, however, I would like to say that, of course, we stand by the agreement that has been reached. Finally, I would just like to say that I am really sorry about the draft law will have to run now. We are going to give it the treatment, because this affects some people, their houses and the surroundings in which they live, and they must have the opportunity to be heard. For good reasons, it has been difficult for the Minister of Defence to make himself available to the neighbours and explain why we are proposing what we are doing and what is behind it. It is difficult to appear in the Defence Committee when we do not accept deputies and only do it virtually. That is why I think it is important that we really make an effort to listen to those whom this draft law adversely affects and see whether we can meet them in a fair and fair way and if we cannot or will not get some good answers to them. In those words, the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428134319	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428134324	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Karsten Lauritzen to be much more open and responsive to the fact that there may be some people, some fates out there that get stuck because of this. We fully understand that an agreement has been reached, but I also think that in this process we should do what the Left is now proposing: look at the consultation answers that have come and be open to the fact that if someone gets into a mess, if there is something you have overlooked, which of course you can come to when you sit with political agreements, then you are open to listening to it. So thank you to the Left for being more constructive and more accommodating. And I hope that it also means that those families out there who say they are in a very special situation can have a little peace of mind and hopefully get the help that we think they deserve.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428134413	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428134416	Thank you for your kind words. I would say that what I said would be my normal approach to a legislative proposal. I, too, as the tax minister, have seen lots of agreements being transposed into legislation. Then there are some citizens who say: should this be understood in this way? Could we do better? And then you sit down in the negotiating circle and discuss it. And if you come to the conclusion that it is not possible, that is the way it is, that is what you have to measure up to. And we are on the goal of the agreement that has been reached. But it could also be that the citizens had a point, and that is why I also hope that the Minister for Defence will also make a repeat of what I said when the Minister for Defence is given the floor at the end of the legislative procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428134454	There is one more brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428134500	Thank you. I would like to congratulate the Left on the constructive part of this. After all, a line has been followed from the previous government to this one, where the basis for compensation is the same. The Left has played in with the fact that the money is best in the citizens' pockets, as they say a little popular. Then people can get the money paid out in cash here, and that's what the Left has got. But I would like to hear, not to disappoint Mrs Pernille Vermund: there are others. We have received an amendment in the last few days. What is the Left's position on this? I'm watching sir. Karsten Lauritzen as a good liberal Leftman and not to the radical side and what else can be said. But what do you stand firm on? I mean, you shouldn't pretend anything to anyone when you've made a political agreement. It is incredibly important for us as Social Democrats that we stand by it and we have a very, very broad agreement. The whole conciliation circle agrees on this. What, then, does the Left imagine to be so? After all, there has been a series of extracts from before the beginning, where you begged and asked to place the planes in Skrydstrup. And I would like to admit that this is a very special situation; I would also have liked to have had better time. But there have been many inquiries in this case too. That is quite justified because it is such an investment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428134616	Thank you, sir. Bjarne Laustsen. Sir. Karsten Lauritzen for an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428134618	If I'm not mistaken, the Secretary of Defense didn't actually have his own office, because she asked the parties who were behind the roof some houses, I think it was four houses where you've looked and said: Ah, there was just something. And that's how I remember the Secretary of Defense asked the parties: were you in on it? And then we said we were in on it. Then it must also apply to the opposite way. I do not promise those who have sent in consultation answers and anything else that we will do what they propose. But I promise them that we will read it carefully and we will also have a discussion with the Minister for Defence. And we will also insist that it should be a physical discussion where we can sit and look each other in the eye, and not just a virtual meeting. It is a bit like the debate we have here today, which is of course strange because the Bureau has decided that we should speak from somewhere else. But normally a debate takes place from the speaking chair of the Folketing, and the focus is on the rapporteur. You can look into each other's eyes, at least from a distance, so there's got to be a fair deal of this bill. And I would also like to say that in my optics a fair treatment is that we look at what comes in, and then we look at whether people have a point, and then we sit down together and try to see if we can find some good solutions. And if we cannot do that, then it falls back on the fact that the Left stands by the agreements we have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428134731	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen. As far as I can see from the platform, it is completely at eye level and it works quite well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428134739	Exactly, Madam President. So, in that light, my words will be the same, regardless of whether I had stood up there, and I think so too, sir. Karsten Lauritzen's words would be in this case. But in that light: we have an agreement, and that is why we are also saying that when it turns out that we have actually had the aircraft implemented, then there may be a need for a recalculation of the noise. But it has been made on the basis of some professional criteria, and of course it has been in all of this, including in relation to the previous government, a step towards ensuring the best possible security for citizens down there. And that's why I don't know anyone in this thing that doesn't or won't make sure this happens the best way. And all the views you may have on this matter will be dealt with seriously and answered.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428134827	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428134829	I didn't say that at all, sir. Bjarne Laustsen. I said that what is the starting point of the Left, which was also my starting point in the four years I was Minister for Taxation, is that we can conclude all kinds of agreements, and I stand by them as ministers enter into them, and I expect the parties with which I have concluded them to stand by them. But if something happens along the way, when reality hits the law, then you owe it to the citizens who get stuck or get hit positively or negatively by our legislation to listen to them. That is not the same as agreeing with them. It's just giving them the opportunity to speak up. And if they have a point then adjust in what has been agreed, if everyone can agree on it. And if the government does not want to do so, we will not go any further, and we will end up voting against the proposal. But we hope that the Secretary of Defense will enter into that dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428134918	Then there is another brief comment to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428134922	Thank you for that, President. I have not heard that the Left has said that the agreement does not stand. The Danish People's Party also stands by the agreement, but that does not mean that, if there are any good arguments, you cannot take it up in the conciliation circle and see if you can implement it. That's how I interpreted it, sir. Karsten Lauritzen says. If there are any good arguments, the Left is ready to see whether we should change the agreement, just as the Danish People's Party will also be ready for it. I assume that is the way to interpret it. It's just to get it confirmed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428134957	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428134959	Yes, sir. Thank you very much. Bent Bøgsted, for it was much more precisely worded than my answer to Mr. Bjarne Laustsen. But that's exactly what I meant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428135005	Then there are no more brief remarks to Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, and the next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428135017	Thank you for that, President, and if I could just take a few seconds for the President, I would like to say that the position we have here today is very inappropriate. I have some colleagues behind me who I cannot face when I have to answer questions, and they cannot see me either; I turn my back to some of my good colleagues here in the back. I hope that the President will come with us to the Bureau, that this is very inappropriate for us. It is fine for the Left and the Social Democrats, where you can and can look each other in the eye, but for us who sit down here behind it is very inappropriate. I now have my 2 minutes, it's about 5 minutes.). That's five minutes, of course. Thank you. It would be bad to stop after two minutes. As the Danish People's Party looks at it, we have of course made an agreement, and that has nothing to do with it. In the Danish People's Party we have always had a clear position that we did not think it was quite good enough, but that we simply had to accept that there was no majority for what the Danish People's Party wanted. The Danish People's Party would have liked to see the red zone expanded somewhat more. There have been four or five more homes, and that is also quite fine, and that is one of the things we have emphasised. But we would also have liked to see changes in the yellow zone. From the beginning, of course, the Danish People's Party has wanted a large red zone, and we have also wanted an orange zone, a transitional zone, so that there is no abrupt fall from red to yellow zone, that is, a phasing-out model. That is also what they want down around Skrydstrup, and that is what the Danish People's Party has always said. You'll find that, and you'll see that I've been out in the past. A replacement is then given, which is DKK 140,000. in the red zone or purchase of the property in this connection, and DKK 70,000. in yellow zone. It is so money that you get paid tax-free for insulation, and that is also fine. But there's a wish from people down there I think it's 28 homes they say there's on the border that they should be in the red zone, and that's where I think we should see if there's anyone who could get into the red residential area for good reason. In any case, that is what I would like to call on the Minister to be able to attend a meeting and then we can see if we can agree on it. Because it has been a little bit as if people have not really been listened to down there and their arguments about how and how it should be. Some of them have, of course, been listened to and there is more noise, and it is a little difficult to judge how much noise there is before the F-35s arrive. There is then a 10-year transition period in which you can complain about it and you can change whether you have to buy it or have it paid for isolation, and that is also a good thing. It is also a good thing that those who have a home that they can rent out need to spend the money on insulation so that they cannot just put the money in their pockets. It was also a wish of the Danish People's Party that it should not be the case that you could put the money in your pocket and then not care about the rentals. So it's fine. But we have to take it seriously when so many people complain about it. We have to recognise that this agreement is ten times better than the agreement under the previous government. We can only say that on the basis of what has come, and that is also fine, and we are also grateful to the Danish People's Party for that. However, I would urge the Minister to take a closer look at the houses on the border and whether there are some of them that we can quite rightly say could be included. And why should we not create a transitional zone so that we have a degressivity? A lot of people don't understand that you have a limit. It's like if from here, where I stand, and then to my good colleague from Radicals, goes a border in between, where I get $140,000, and Radicals get $70,000. Why do you only need $70,000 when you live 2 m away? So it is something that you cannot really understand how it works, and that is why it was desirable that there was a phasing-out plan, so that the further away you came from the red zone, the less you got. Then there is the possibility of complaining about the decisions that are being taken. There are these neighboring rules on noise pollution and that you can raise a case. Then you may dedicate yourself to the opportunity to get that replacement for insulation, but then you might win a case where you get a higher compensation. There has also been a discussion about whether they could or could not do so, but there is nothing to prevent people from raising a case concerning neighbouring rules. The law also says that you can do that, and then it is at least closed down with the speculation that they have no opportunity to complain to the court and have their case tested. Then they can test whether the value loss of the house is in line with the compensation they receive and they can win a case, but it may of course take a great deal of time. However, I do hope that during the time we are discussing it, the Minister will perhaps also be willing to talk to the conciliation circle about whether there is something inappropriate that we need to rectify. Because as legislators, we also need to be ready to listen if there are any good, objective arguments that there is something a little wrong, and we are at least ready to do so in the Danish People's Party. In general terms, however, we have to recognise that the F-35s are coming to Skrydstrup, and there are a great many jobs that we also want to have down there, and we also have to take into account the noise nuisances that exist. But it's hard to judge yet before the planes really get to fly. Then I've spent my time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428135604	That is quite correct: exactly the 5 minutes of speaking time plus the loose at the beginning. And I should just like to make a brief comment from the Chair on the first point made by the rapporteur that this opportunity for today's debate is being tested. The most important thing, I would say, is that we can at least be at eye level with the Minister, as it is the Minister who is asking Parliament to deal with the bill. And then the Committee on the Rules of Procedure will be able to debate it and come back to the form of resolution. However, it is noted that the Danish People's Party does not consider it appropriate that the presentation be as it is. But I can tell Bent Bøgsted that no other rapporteurs have asked for brief comments. That is because I have turned my back on them!). I can confirm that I can look at the other participants in the debate, that there are no rapporteurs sitting around with their arms or wishing to speak in this context, and so I can give the floor to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mr. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428135700	Thank you for that, President. I do not think there is any reason to hide the fact that this is a difficult law in which we politicians should try to balance the concerns of different citizens in the country. There are the citizens who live in and around Skrydstrup and who become neighbours to a new, large and very noisy landing area with some aircraft, I should say hello to them, who make a lot of noise. We owe it to the citizens to take account; we also owe it to them that they have the opportunity to receive compensation and that we therefore take into account what is possible. That is why I am also pleased that we have received a considerably larger package, which provides more support for more people than we had before. On the radical side, we have put particular emphasis on the fact that in the new package that has been agreed, we will also have better communication and information efforts for the citizens affected by this. Fortunately, it is only a few times a day that usually maybe twice a day that there will be landings and reliefs, I almost said, that aircraft land and take off the course. It will be very important for many families to know when it is and to be able to organise their daily life after it. Of course, it cannot eliminate the noise, but it will make life easier. That is actually a good thing, I think, aspects of the package that we are behind for the benefit of the citizens living in and around Skrydstrup. And that is because there is also a concern for some other citizens, namely all those who do not live in and around Skrydstrup and who have to pay the compensation and who, when we look at it a little wider, help to pay compensation every time the state has to expropriate or do something for the community's good that goes beyond a particular group of citizens. This also applies when we build motorways or when we build other airports or when we build railways or whatever it may be there we sometimes have to bother some citizens because society and the community benefit from it. And every time we have to compensate or take over or replace, quite reasonably. But it is also just important that there is a connection every time we do so, so that what we do to the citizens of Skrydstrup is not significantly worse or better than what we do when it comes to the citizens of Amager in connection with the airport there or when we have to build a motorway or a railway. And that is the difficult balance that we have as politicians, that is to say, constantly to reconcile this. And I understand that there are citizens in Skrydstrup who are sorry about the balance that has been struck here, because there will, almost wherever we draw that line, be people who feel that they are getting stuck. And I, like the rapporteur from the Left, will not deny that we can become wiser or that, once we have read through the hearings and have looked at it, we can do so. But, as a starting point, the Radical Left is, of course, in the agreement we have reached and which seems to us as a starting point to be the right one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428140007	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the SF, and that is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428140015	Thank you. I think it is a very exciting debate to follow, even if people have their backs on it, but I would just like to lift myself up in a slightly more general perspective. The purpose of this proposal is, of course, to approve such grant and practical measures at Flystation Skrydstrup as a result of the purchase of the F-35 aircraft, which will come in 2023. And it is true that SF left the defence settlement in 2016, because we disagreed very much with the need to purchase 27 F-35 fighters. It wasn't because we disagreed with the fact that these F-16s had to be replaced. We weren't in a position to disagree, but we thought that 27 planes were too many. For SF it is incredibly important that Denmark engages internationally, that we play a major role in making the world a better and more peaceful place, and it is easy to imagine that our air force is available on such a mission; we have done so before, and we will probably do so again. But it is quite central to SF that Denmark contributes with what we are best at, and that we think our security policy and our commitment a little wider than just such pure military efforts. I think that is very important, even for the future way of thinking about security policy, because I think, and the SF believes that so far we have seen a very rigorous military security policy, a very rigorous military approach to both security policy and foreign policy, in fact since 2001, and we believe that this strict military armament in the purchase of F-35 aircraft is just a continuation of it. We do not think that is enough. We would like to have a broader perspective on the fight against global poverty, and it is about combating the climate crisis and what this can bring about from security policy challenges around the world. But there are also good things in the proposal that lies here. After all, it is a good thing to think about the noise nuisances of the neighbours to the flight station. It is positive that more money has been found to compensate the locals. This is very positive, even if we in the SF do not deny that it might be relevant to look at more and see if the model works once it gets to work. But overall, we cannot really support this proposal, not as it stands right now. We will, of course, follow the debate in committee constructively, but in that it is a proposal which is intended to approve such funding and practical measures in relation to the F-35 aircraft, we do not immediately support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428140312	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428140321	Well, thank you so much. I can say that on the part of the Enhedslisten we cannot support this proposal. The reason why Skrydstrup needs to be expanded at all is, of course, that it has been decided to buy fighter aircraft with total costs of nearly 60 billion. kr., and frankly I think that is a completely crazy way of spending community money. I think more than ever that we can see that we actually need to invest in our welfare societies, in our health and, moreover, in helping the world and helping to invest in development. We will be able to save very, very many lives on that and make much more positive efforts than by firing so many billions on fighter planes. So it is, I think, more obvious than ever that this investment is a very big mistake. These fighters haven't been delivered yet, so it would be nice if someone would reflect a little on whether you couldn't pull ashore, I would say, because that is so much needed. So we certainly cannot support that part of it. I would also like to point out the quality of these fighter planes in connection with them, among other things. We must be able to defend Denmark, say that it is very, very clear that there are still extremely large development problems with them. As recently as January, the Pentagon itself came up with a new report showing that these aircraft's computer systems are still not working properly, that they cannot aim properly and that there are extremely many problems with them. I think that also raises a question about this investment, with which, unfortunately, it is not the last time, I think we will see problems. Having said that, I think there are some positive elements in this proposal, and this is precisely about the part that concerns noise compensation for neighbours. From the very beginning, in connection with these fighter planes, I was extremely surprised that no money had been set aside for the noise-proof neighbors of Skrydstrup, and back in 2016, I asked the then Secretary of Defense from the Left, Peter Christensen, what was intended to do about this noise problem, and he said at the time that 0 DKK had been set aside. to do something about it. Therefore, it has been a really long battle, where the neighbours of Skrydstrup have had to shout a lot of times, and where we from Enhedslisten have also had to point to this problem of noise many times, and where a number of journalists, among others. especially from Jyllands-Posten, has done very much to dig they have problems with noise. I am just super happy about that, I would say that this is something that has been listened to around the conciliation circle, so that some money has actually been found to compensate these people who will be very hard hit by the noise. That's all I needed, I'd say. But there are still challenges with the model here, as the neighbours have also pointed out, among others. The transition between the yellow and the red zone, you might say, in relation to the possibility of being bought out or getting help to noise insulation, and what they point to down there is that it is too abrupt a transition. After all, we are not in conciliation for good reasons, as we have seen before, but I would really like to call for the final piece of the agreement to be made more in line with what the neighbours are also calling for down there. So we must continue to have good treatment and I understand that there will be an opportunity for the neighbours to be heard next week, and I think that is very important, because the better conditions can be ensured at all for them to be involved, the better. This is extremely important, because these people are going to have some big genes in their everyday lives, which I think they owe to helping them with. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428140705	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428140710	Thank you for that, President. I just need to hear the Enhedslisten's rapporteur about something. Because it appeared that you didn't really have to spend those billions on planes, and you might not really have to have a flight station in Skrydstrup either. The rapporteur nods. Is it because we are where Enhedslisten says that we must abolish the defence and then just put up a sign with the words: We surrender? I interpret it as saying that Enhedslisten does not want a defence of Denmark. There's no need for that. We just need to spend the money on welfare instead of abolishing the whole defense. There are planes that are worn out, that need to be replaced and renewed in order for us to be able to maintain the defense. But I have to assume that Enhedslisten's wish is to say that we should not have a defence, the money should all be used for welfare, so that everything in the defence should just be abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428140804	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428140805	I can deny that. We do not want to abolish the entire defence. I think it is quite reasonable to have a defence which can both take care of what to say, territorial defence and also contribute to, for example. some of the UN peacekeeping missions around the world and other things, where I think that Danish soldiers can actually help make a positive difference. So it is not because we want to abolish the defence completely, but I think we have to look at the fact that this very thing about defence is quite central. And the F-35, the new fighter planes, is an extremely offensive attack aircraft, which is first and foremost bought in order to be allyed with the Americans and bombs out in some of the wars that we have been very much opposed to. That's why a plane has been chosen so offensively. I think that we could have made some other choices in order to ensure that there was also an opportunity to protect our own airspace, but not to go as offensively as we have done with these much, much more expensive F-35 fighters, which are also very controversial, by the way. So it is a question of doing it differently, I would say, more than just abolishing the defence. I think there is room, after all, for nuances in that. But when it comes to the new F-35, it's definitely going to be a no from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428140917	Sir. Bent Bøgsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428140919	Well, I understand that, so we don't need any planes, because we need to get some new ones... we don't need any planes to defend ourselves. But they have also been sent to UN missions. They have been sent out in many places to defend common interests. We must also safeguard Arctic interests in protecting Danish territory. But if we do not have any aircraft that can reject others, then perhaps we have the situation that Russian aircraft will come in over Denmark instead, because we do not have a response to rejection. That's what these planes are for.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428140954	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428140956	It has to be said that the F-35 is an extremely expensive combat aircraft, which very much points to first and foremost being acquired because it strengthens relations with the Americans and NATO in this context. It's still gone a fighter plane that hasn't been fully developed at all. There are extremely large technical problems with it. So I wonder why that is the choice you made at all. I think there were many others who did that in the process that took place. I think there are many of us who think that we have never seen such a closed process. It is the biggest public procurement in Danish history that we are talking about here, and I simply do not think that is managed in the most sensible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428141033	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party. It's sir. Niels Flemming Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428141041	Thank you very much. In relation to Mr. Bent Bøgsted's first comment, I have now noticed that Mr. Karsten Lauritzen has sat behind me so that he can see my back, just as I saw it on him earlier, and I have to admit that the Minister and I have the best seats in the Chamber. In June 2016, the Danish Government concluded an agreement to purchase 27 F-35 aircraft. From our point of view, it is always possible to discuss whether that was enough. It is planned that the first F-35 flights will be received in Denmark in 2023. I myself have heard from Lockheed Martin that there may be a slight delay in the delivery of the planes due to the covid-19, but so far nothing of major importance. It was also decided that the future aircraft would operate out of the Flying Station Skrydstrup, which at that time was a great joy. It is of great importance to retain the more than 1,000 jobs in the region alone. That is why, of course, we also need to be ready to receive these magnificent computers with wings that F-35 is and are ready to defend Denmark, the Arctic and elsewhere in the world where it may, unfortunately, be necessary. The 42,000 metres 2 2 We are, of course, behind the agreement that has been made and, moreover, have it in the same way as other parties in the Chamber, that if some of the answers to these questions that have been received make sense, then it is clear that we need to discuss them. But as a starting point, we stand by the agreement we have made. However, it is also important to say that we very much recognise the importance of the Conservative People's Party that there is an opportunity to recalculate the noise when the aircraft are actually there and are in use. Because that's what this is all about: How much noise do they make when they actually fly there? For the F-35 to function normally, it is important in all respects to keep in mind the instructions of Fighter Wing Skrydstrup's coat of arms...OPES FORIS VIRES DOMI... the strength out and the power at home. Of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428141306	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428141310	I could hardly help myself when I heard the wording of amazing computers on wings. Then I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is aware of the Pentagon's own assessment of this F-35 combat aircraft. Their latest assessment a few months ago was that one was unable to make the upgrades to the new computer system; that it was very, very doubtful whether it will work at all; that the aim does not work; that one is extremely vulnerable to cyber attacks. I would just like to ask the rapporteur if it can cause some concern about this so-called supercomputer that that is what the Pentagon itself says about the plane.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428141358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428141359	Yes, of course it can, it is clear. But we also have to recognise that before the first are to be delivered in January 2021, there is still really, really good time to work on this. Just as far as the charge is concerned, I have also heard and read that they are absolutely sure that it will. At the same time, you're right about cyberdefense compared to this plane. But there too they have been out to say that they are absolutely convinced that before we get delivered that problem has also been solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428141433	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428141435	It is, of course, touching with confidence, it can be said, but I am also aware that they themselves say that a number of these problems which have not yet been resolved probably cannot be solved either, so that there are simply such major technical challenges that there are basically doubts as to whether they will ever be in order. There is something about pouring more and more money into it, but there is also some of it that you really have no idea what to do with. And again, it's the Pentagon itself that says it. So I would certainly call on the rapporteurs in the conciliation circle who are responsible for this purchase to take these concerns very seriously and also to ensure that there are guarantees before these aircraft are delivered, because that is a lot of billions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428141517	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428141519	After all, there is no one in this conciliation group who is not reasonable people, so we will of course take that into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428141527	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428141534	Thank you for the floor. New citizens support the first three points of this proposal, but we do not support the compensation model. That is why we propose that the draft law be split up so that the compensation model is dealt with separately. We want a strong defense. We must take care of the freedom and security of the Danes, and it is, of course, crucial for our security that the defence equipment and facilities are developed and upgraded. That's why we support the grant to Air Force Cruise Squad. However, we do not support the compensation model for the victims of noise nuisances near the airfield. A majority of the Folketing, in which New Citizens are not part of, has concluded an agreement on noise compensation for residents and citizens around Skrydstrup. From many quarters the agreement has been criticised for being unfair, for being too cheap and for being too random. In New Citizens, we share the criticism. Earlier this year, we tabled a motion for a resolution to the effect that any home owner in the area around Flystation Skrydstrup should be able to obtain an independent assessment of their individual property loss due to the noise of the new F-35 combat aircraft. Unfortunately, there was no majority for this in the Folketing, and the massive criticism from the neighbours has neither caused the government nor the parties behind the agreement to change their attitude. This is disappointing, and it is so insensitive to the families who are now facing an uncertain and difficult time. We have heard examples of families who find themselves in severe financial difficulties because of the increased noise nuisances and the poor compensation model. One of those who had been in front of the Defence Committee was a man in charge of refunding his loans in the property. He probably can't get that now, when the noise diminishes the value of the dwelling. He can't sell without losses, and there's actually only the prospect of foreclosure. It's not a fair treatment. He and the other citizens in the area deserve us to take their fates seriously. When we dealt with the motion for a resolution of the New Citizens' Party, I heard a move against a more reasonable compensation scheme, and I have also heard today that there are parties on the left, DF and others who are open to listen to the hearings and the objections that have come. I hope that in the work of the committee we can find a majority for compensation that helps the citizens of Skrydstrup out of the unfair situation in which they have been brought. We owe it to each other to look after Denmark. We must honour our commitments in NATO and invest in a strong defence, but we also owe it to the citizens of Skrydstrup, who have so much at stake that we treat them properly. I don't want them taken hostage in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428141828	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428141831	Thank you. Mrs Pernille Vermund herself says that you are not in the agreement, but that does not prevent you from both being able to table amendments and resolutions as you have done. But I hope there are many who hear that when New Citizens say they cannot agree to the compensation model, it is the same as saying to all the citizens in the area that they get nothing. What is the difference here and what we are talking about, and we have to tell people as it is, that whatever government we have had and whatever advice we have received, it is clear that the state is not liable. What is the difference here is the difference between F-16 and F-35, and there is scope for recalculation etc., but it is 1,600 pilots in the area who are free from having to go out and bring legal proceedings against the state or bring group actions or anything else. With what we are adopting today, there are 1 600 that can be helped, and you may think that it is few or many, but that is ten times as many as the previous bourgeois government proposed. When you cannot support the compensation model, there is only one option left for the citizens, and that is to bring proceedings against the state. Is this really what New Citizens think citizens should be exposed to?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428141942	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428141945	When you come from outside and look into politics here, it is precisely the kind of answers and approaches the rapporteur makes here, which you fear most, i.e. this cynical politician's point of view, that you either take what is there or there is nothing. I think it is quite reasonable, as we have also heard several rapporteurs say in this Chamber today, to look at whether there are families that have ended up on the wrong side of the divide in a political model, a politically agreed compensation, which everything else just does not get better than what can be predicted politically when you sit and make it. Now there has been a hearing answer and, in the event that there are families who are homeowners who are in a hugely difficult situation and who are at risk of going to foreclosure, risk going from house to home, it is therefore cynical that you put it in such a way that you either take this model or there is nothing. New citizens are going to fight for the model to be improved.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428142048	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428142050	What I am saying here as rapporteur is factual and real, and there is a huge majority in the Danish Parliament that fully agrees with that. Because we need to establish objective criteria when deciding who is to be supported. What New Citizens are saying, and that is what I am looking at a little bit, is that you want people to be compensated. If someone is to be compensated, it has to be assessed by some others. Are there independent people in that circle? There might well be, but who would it be if it were: should it be in legal proceedings etc.? What we are doing instead of saying is that, within a 10-year period, 1 600 citizens who are affected to a greater or lesser extent will have the opportunity to either be fully bought up or receive compensation or get money in their pockets, as the Left is talking about. I think it is nice, also in relation to what we have seen of all sorts of other projects. The general good has to say: we have to have room to make this, because it is a socially good investment that we need to make. That is why we have chosen a model which is very feasible in this way, as opposed to having to take legal action against the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428142153	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance. It's sir. Henrik Dahl... Hey, sorry, of course, Mrs Pernille Vermund should be allowed to respond to what Mr. Bjarne Laustsen came in for half a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428142216	Thank you. We are not asking for a situation in which a compensation model is to be replaced. We fully agree that there is a difference in compensation, in other words whether you adopt politically what rules apply to compensation or whether you are in a situation where you say that it must be compensated for all the challenges that then exist for the citizens. So that's not what we're asking for. We are asking that, in relation to the model of compensation which has been adopted politically, we listen to those citizens who may be a few, but it may also be many, and look at whether there are specific situations in which we can see that it is going wrong, that we are going to miss it. And if you are too headstrong to listen to the citizens, to go out there and look at the individual cadastral and say that there is probably something about it here, then of course you should not listen. However, we hope that what we have heard in the Chamber today, and also what we heard when dealing with our motion for a resolution, means that there will actually be a majority in favour of being responsive to those who are in trouble.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428142319	Thank you to the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. Thus, at least the speaking time was compensated. This is the next rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance. It's sir. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428142330	Thank you for the floor. Defense needs to modernise its fighter planes. The old F-16 aircraft are one of the best stock purchases the Danish defence has ever made, but they cannot fly forever. For compensation we have then acquired exactly 27 of the most advanced military aircraft the world has ever seen, namely the F-35s. That's good, too. The new fighters must then, like the old ones, be deployed at Flystation Skrydstrup, and if you have said A, you must also say B. Therefore, Flystation Skrydstrup must be upgraded and expanded. This is, of course, a good decision because the decision to buy the aircraft is a good one, and that is why, of course, the accompanying decision is also sensible. In relation to the issue of noise pollution, we are also included in the agreement that has been reached. I would just like to say there, like several other rapporteurs, that we are, of course, standing by the agreement. That is quite clear. But, as always, we also believe that pragmatism and common sense should be allowed to advise, so let us in the circle of parties that have taken joint responsibility see what comes into the hearing response. It is only fair to approach things in the way many other rapporteurs have also said. So we support the draft law and, with those comments, I thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428142456	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. Then it's the Secretary of Defense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428142502	Thank you. I would also like to thank you for your contributions during the debate on the legislative proposal. We live in a world of increasing unrest and an increased threat picture. This also applies to Denmark. Therefore, it is absolutely crucial that we have the necessary capabilities in the Danish defence. This applies especially to new and modern fighter planes. The abolition of the new F-35 combat aircraft is essential to maintain Denmark's current operational combat aircraft capacity. At the same time, acquisition ensures that defence will continue to be able to enforce sovereignty. In addition, the acquisition of the new fighter aircraft ensures that Denmark will also be able to participate in international operations in the future, thereby meeting the commitments made by Denmark as a member of NATO. The bill creates the framework for the expansion and operation of the Flystation Skrydstrup. It is thus the whole foundation for Denmark's new fighter aircraft to operate from the flight station when the first flights arrive in Denmark in 2023. That is the foundation we are discussing here today. Without a new plant, we cannot receive the fighters, and if we are to receive the fighters on time, it is critical that we get the construction of the new plant started as soon as possible. The bill also creates the basis for regulation of noise from defence activities at Flystation Skrydstrup. In addition, the bill implements the compensation scheme for aircraft noise from the F-35 fighter aircraft agreed last year by a broad majority of Parliament's parties. It's been taking off and landing fighter planes in Skrydstrup since 1954. Therefore, combat aircraft noise is by no means new in the area. The aircraft will also continue to operate as they do today. It is two flights a day, morning and afternoon, from Monday to Friday. In addition, if the Danish airspace is violated, as well as the dark flights a few weeks a year, which are also known from today's world. However, the annual amount of flight hours that will be run with F-35 will be less than we know from today, as part of the training that is going on today will have to be carried out in the United States. The compensation scheme is therefore about the additional noise to which citizens are exposed by the new aircraft. This is a scheme which will cover approx. 1,600 dwellings, which include offers of voluntary purchase, noise insulation or a cash payment, depending on the additional noise to which the dwelling is exposed. The agreement provides for approx. 250 million kr. to compensate the neighbours, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank the parties in the conciliation circle for their support for the compensation scheme and for the good impetus that has come into being. When we talk about the part of the proposal which deals with the noise of the new fighter aircraft, there will be citizens who believe that they should have had more in compensation. That is what it will be like when you choose to set up a compensation scheme and then set limits on where to compensate. I would like to mention again that this is, of course, based on the noise to which you are exposed. In this context, I would also like to thank you for the initiatives and questions that have come from the citizens in the process. Sir. Karsten Lauritzen called for the hearings, and they have been sent commentary to the Danish Parliament. I have, of course, also been in Skrydstrup as a minister on several occasions, and I have had a dialogue with the citizens and have visited the citizens we are talking about here. Whatever model we make for noise compensation, no matter how extensive it may be, there will always be some on the other side of the line who would have preferred a different model. That is why the noise to which citizens are exposed has been taken as a starting point. Could the borders have been somewhere else? Yeah, they could. But then there would be citizens who would be on the other side of the new borders. That is why it is the noise picture of F-35 and the indicative limit values that we have taken as our starting point. I think that's a fair model. The offer of noise insulation with noise reduction means that the individual's housing will be based on. At the same time, as an alternative, it is possible to obtain cash or to sell the housing to the state for the most noise-laden neighbours. This compensates neighbours in relation to the noise impact that F-35 will entail. In addition, there will be a recalculation of the noise image if the upcoming noise measurements differ significantly from the calculated. This includes an additional opportunity to respond to the concerns expressed, particularly by some citizens who are just outside the buying-in zone. In conclusion, I would like to thank once again for both the comments made here today, but also for the work that has led us to adopt the proposal today, which ensures that we can have fighter aircraft in the future and that we can compensate citizens for the additional noise they are exposed to. I look forward to a constructive discussion of the draft law in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428143020	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428143025	Thank you very much. In relation to the noise calculation model, I would like to say that it is not just a question of there always being someone outside the border. In fact, what neighbours are appealing to, and on which they have also got their lawyer to draw up a proposal, is that you make a more graduated model so that the transition is not so abrupt, you can say, so that you do not sit just on one side or the other side of the border and can look over to the neighbor who is on the good side of the line. I think it makes sense, precisely because it is noise and it has a more sliding decreasing effect, to listen better to the proposals of these neighbours on how to adjust that model. By the way, I also think that they have proved to be smart people all the way through, and that also only adds to the meaning of listening to them. So I would urge that, and I would like to ask the Minister, if we could take another round of this. My last question is about the technical challenges with F-35, which I have also mentioned earlier in the debate. I would like to hear: is it the case that when you get the aircraft to be delivered, if these technical problems are not resolved next year, when you start receiving the deliveries, then the Secretary of Defense will put the deliveries on hold?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428143146	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428143148	First of all, I would like to say that this noise model is based on the individual homes, and that is what happens when noise compensation is offered. This means that it is based on how much additional noise there is in the individual housing, and then you get an offer to have the housing isolated so that you are not exposed to this noise. I know that some neighbors have said that you are not based on the individual housing, but that is exactly what you do when you choose to let an expert on noise take out and inspect the housing and make clear dessins about what needs to be done in order to dampen decibels in relation to this specific housing. Then it is true that a proposal for an amendment to the noise model agreed in the contract circle has recently been made, and the Ministry of Defence's assessment of that model is that it will be a gift, that is, that what they propose will be a gift, and that is not sustainable. After all, money cannot simply be paid out as a gift to the public for a fall in the price of one's housing, which cannot be replaced. Yes, please!). And then I have to answer the F-35 in the next question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428143302	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428143304	It is good that the Minister would come back to that, because I think that is very important. But in relation to the housing situation, it is true that when we talk about noise isolation, there is the possibility of graduated it, but when it is a question of buying or not, there are no modulation mechanisms. And that is exactly what many of them are pointing to, i.e. that perhaps you could have some more flexibility. I think that is still a matter for discussion, and I have heard that there are other parties, including those in the circle, that are interested in that dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428143340	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428143341	In relation to buying or not, you have to set the limit somewhere, and what we have chosen as a starting point is how much noise you are exposed to. And it's also about this model setting a precedent for what you do in other areas of the country. Therefore, there will also be a risk that you will then have to buy large parts of Amager, for example, if you are not based on the noise limits that come from the Ministry of the Environment. So that's why it's the ones it's built on, and I think that's kind of a fair way to do it, because otherwise it should be everything else where the grass is greenest, where there's a stream, or something else. So I actually think it's a reasonable criterion. Then I would say to reply to the F-35 that we are, of course, following developments closely. I have a close dialogue with my Norwegian colleague and, as I have been informed, they are satisfied with their F-35 aircraft. And then I would say that there are also problems with F-16, and that is the dilemma we are faced with. Well, there's frames that break and stuff like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428143443	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428143456	Thank you for the floor. In the past, I could hear the Social Democrat rapporteur say that the Social Democrats will not legislate on the basis of emotions, and that is quite a fair point of view. Will the Social Democrats not legislate from the economics, from the point of view of human destinies? When we in the New Citizens' Party are fighting for the people that the Minister says have ended up on the wrong side of the border, yes, there will always be some people who do get heard and that they are being given an opportunity to make an independent assessment, it is not because we are in favour of a gift, and it is not because we want to legislate on the basis of emotions; it is because we think it is quite real that if there are homeowners, that if there are families who in the current situation risk getting into a situation of foreclosure, because they cannot wait until 2023 for the measurement that comes next. They are in a situation where, for example, they have to refinance their loans and therefore get stuck. Could the Social Democrats and the Minister not be open to looking at those who say they have gotten into trouble and say that here we must have an impartial assessment of the loss of property value for the homeowners?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428143610	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428143612	Well, I've wanted to legislate many times in this Parliament on the basis of whom it's most a shame, but that's just not the way we can build a country and be a community of law. We are a country based on rules, and we have to base ourselves on criteria, and in this case it is noise, that is, how much additional noise the individual citizen is exposed to, not what it is for loans that the individual citizen has in his house or what it is for debts that the individual citizen has in his house. I think it is reasonable that we should start by compensating for how much more noise than the F-16 aircraft the new F-35 fighters cause. Then I would say that we have a valve, and that is, of course, in relation to whether the calculations that are on the table today, in other words before the aircraft have arrived, prove to be practical. In other words, they do not prove to be in practice when the aircraft have arrived, there will be a possibility of recalculation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428143708	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428143710	I never thought I would hear a Socialist minister say that we will not legislate on the basis of whom it is most a pity. I would like to see this spread out a little more, but peace be with it. We're not talking about who it's most a pity for. We are talking about the fact that, from today 2020 up to the possibility of having a real assessment in 2023, there are three years and that, over the three years, some people are getting into a mess. Once your house has gone to foreclosure; once you have had to sell with the huge loss that is often associated with a foreclosure, it is just as cool when you stand on the other side to know: Well you could actually have stayed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428143747	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428143749	In fact, I think this debate on this proposal is more important than making it such a controversy. In other words, the basis for us to be the society we are is, of course, that we use regulation, that we make legislation and that legislation has to be based on objective criteria, and in this case the noise is the issue. It is true, then, that there are some citizens who have different other fates where some are more ill than others and that sort of thing, but that is somewhere else that legislation lies. This is a plant law proposal we are dealing with, and we need to take objective criteria as our starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428143828	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428143901	Before we get started, we must first have a little replacement of the rapporteurs. Then it looks as if a little change has taken place among the rapporteurs, so it is the right rapporteurs who are present. Before we start the debate, I must point out that we in the Bureau have decided to change the way in which the debate is conducted. The amendment means that all speeches, both ministerial and rapporteur speeches and brief remarks, will be taken from the seats. In order to draw up the minutes, it is very important that Members do not start talking until the red ring on the microphone lights up. As usual, you will be able to see the rest of the speaking time at the bottom right of the voting panel. The debate is open, and the first speaker on the floor is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Anders Kronborg, who will speak from his chair. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428144046	Thank you for that, and first of all I regret that we were a little late in the Chamber. We actually stood a whole bunch of rapporteurs out there and were ready, but in these coronatides we dare not get in until we have to. But now it seems that we are all here, and I look forward to discussing this bill, because in the Social Democratic Party we are proud of our Danish agricultural and food producers, and that of course also applies to our skilled Danish seed producers. With the bill that we are debating today, we are making an extra effort to ensure that Danish seed and seed producers also have a very good framework in future to be able to sell and export their products of high quality. The draft law means that we will establish a new model of distribution of competence and pricing when registering varieties is to be approved, and in connection with plant news protection and seed certification. In concrete terms, this means that several private operators can carry out some of the tasks that need not be carried out by the authorities. This contributes to healthy and free competition in this area, and it considers social democracy to be good and sensible initiatives. Against this background, we support the draft law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428144205	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Erling Bonnesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428144211	Thank you. The draft law has already been examined by the former rapporteur, so I do not need to do that. Perhaps I can just add that it is a special joy when you look at plants and also at grass, because even if football is not to be played now, the European Championship and things like that • even the super league is currently laid down • we can enjoy the fact that there are a lot of players, not just in Denmark, but around the world, who are running on Danish grass. And that also helps to emphasise that Danish agriculture and Danish food are well walking on the large international stage. And on that basis I can only agree with what the rapporteur for the Socialist Group has already said, namely that we naturally support this bill. We need to keep having world-class grass.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428144302	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428144307	Now we have had two rapporteurs where the first of the Social Democrats said that it was good that we were talking about something that liberalised the situation. And I would really like to hear the rapporteur of the Left why this liberalisation proposal has not been chosen at the time when the Left had the power of government, because it goes from something where there is a monopoly, to something where, in this way, it liberalises and allows other players to help, what to say, develop plant varieties, etc. Why is it that the Left has not managed to liberalise it here during the period when you had government power?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428144346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428144347	Well, I can quite easily answer that, because there were also talks going on about it, and some of the very first discussions of it were there while we had a blue left-wing government. So I can only welcome the fact that, for once, the Social Democratic Party has taken over some of what we in the Left have set in motion and brought it all through. And now I'm so excited if Enhedslisten can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428144409	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428144410	It is also very exciting when we come to an exciting third reading. And I have to admit, when I read this bill, I had some doubts about what I should actually take from Hjortshøj to Christiansborg for. But it's obviously particularly important in these coronatides that this bill be implemented. But I really find it difficult to see that this proposal is something that has to be implemented before the summer break. But perhaps the rapporteur of the Left may say: why is it that it is important to implement it here when the Left could not implement it during its reign?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428144440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428144441	Well, in the Left, we are always ready to implement legislative proposals quickly, which are in the process of liberalisation, so we are in favour of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428144450	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so the next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428144457	Thank you for that, President. As the previous rapporteurs have said, this proposal is, of course, about supporting the Danish seed producers, and it is true, as the rapporteur of the Left has said, that we are indeed the world leader, and that is why it makes sense that we should also use that position to allow open competition in a country such as Denmark. Therefore, the Danish People's Party can of course also support a hundred percent of the bill that is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428144520	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and then the next rapporteur from the Radical Left is Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428144528	Well, it's been turned on all by itself. As the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Anders Kronborg, said, we stayed just outside the Chamber before the subject was on the agenda, and we then discussed why it was actually that we had to meet today to discuss this proposal, because we are all very much in agreement, and it also has such a bit of a technical character. But then some people mentioned something about grass and some football, and since we have a minister who is very interested in culture, perhaps we are here simply to find an opportunity to discuss culture in the midst of this crisis. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Of course, we support the proposal which creates liberalisation and we think it is very good in this area. I don't suppose there's much more to say about that. And then I look forward to the Minister's speech, which might be really festive and deal a lot about our good grass for football etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428144627	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. And it looks as if the Socialist People's Party rapporteur is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen. Here you go. Wait a minute, I don't think there's any sound on the microphone. Does it light red now?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428144657	It is now. In the SF, too, we can easily support this proposal. We had it short up at the group meeting, because our group chairman was a little worried about this approval of plant variety lists, because what was it? Our health rapporteur was also a little concerned about whether it was very controversial, whether it took a long time, and I had to explain that it was probably a technicality that we had to go through here, so they could be quite calm about that. So we back up in SF, and I look forward to going up and picking up Kirsten Normann Andersen so she can come down quickly for the next treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428144734	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428144739	It is, of course, a legislative proposal in which one can ask oneself where the major change is in the changes brought about by the law. We go from the fact that something is guided by a textual note in the Finance Act to the fact that conditions are laid down in a law. This is probably something that has been done in a legal way, but perhaps the Minister can answer that, but I wonder why it is that we really need to hurry to deal with this bill at a time when all parties have been asked to reduce the number of their motions for resolutions and when the government has also been in the process of finding out whether there were any legislative proposals that did not need to be dealt with before the summer recess. Then we have this bill, which, quite frankly, doesn't change much. But it is also a proposal which opens up the possibility that there may be more players in a plant breeding work. Of course, in the present circumstances, there could be a number of players who were aware of it, but here it seems that we are moving from a monopoly to something that is with several private operators and where free pricing is then taking place. This is then something that is being promoted under a social democratic government and something that did not gain support under a Left Government earlier. I really think it would be nice to clarify a little more why it is so important to adopt this bill in these coronatides, but I can do so through a committee procedure. At first glance, Enhedslisten will support the bill as it stands, but I do not think it is a easily legible legislative proposal when you look into it, and then when you look for something important in some consultation answers, it is not the large grains of gold that you find on both sides. So a good explanation why we have to make this before the summer break, I think it would be nice to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428144946	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Orla Østerby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428144953	Thank you. Black testing has for many years been part of the task of the state. This changed seven years ago, when the Danish Agricultural Authority decided that the variety testing would be terminated in Denmark and then referred to neighbouring countries. Fortunately, the Danish Business Authority and the Danish Agricultural Authority joined forces and agreed to develop a self-serving fund that took over everything five years ago. This means that we have ensured that testing and, in general, research and certification in this area will remain in Denmark. It's very, very important. And it's the TystofteFonden who's responsible for it. If you read in the bill it is in the text that there are also some areas that you cannot delegate to anyone other than the TystofteFonden, because it is very important that you have a company that has expertise in this area. It is also a success when we look at the company, which today has 32 employees and runs with profits, where the last 10 years under the auspices of the state were run with losses. Now we adopt a bill that, based on 5 years of experience, makes it possible to continue this success, and the bill ensures that the company is kept up to date and competitive by the fact that the tasks are being carried out in competition, so it is always the best to carry them out in Denmark. It is a good and safe way for the state to solve the tasks best and cheapest. We are, of course, in Denmark leading with regard to plant passports and with regard to authorisation in this area. We are the world's largest grass breeder, and it is a very, very large export that Denmark has there. This also applies to potato, rape, maize, many different species, and this merely confirms that Denmark has a high level of agricultural production.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428145227	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428145233	Thank you. I would just like to sign up to the Conservative rapporteur, because I think that the speech here was really, really valuable because it just spread out the palette and showed why this is important. Some say that the devil is often hidden in the detail. One can say that this is tiny grain, but nevertheless it is very, very important for Denmark's exports. Agriculture & Food estimates that seeds and this whole industry actually have an export value of over 3 billion. kr. So, although we are talking about tiny seeds, it is actually an incredibly important export business. And I just want to sign up to the Conservative rapporteur for hitting bulls eye here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428145314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428145316	Well, I have nothing more to say than that it is at least important for Denmark and for Danish agriculture that we have the expertise in this area, because when we look at this it is only Malta and Luxembourg out of 47 countries that do not have their own, we can say, certification. So this is very important for Danish exports and for Danish agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428145344	There are no more brief comments, so we would like to thank the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428145351	Thank you. There are already rapporteurs who have described what this proposal contains, so I will not repeat that, but just say that New Citizens support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428145402	Thank you. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428145408	Thank you. Liberalisation of the plant breeding sector, particularly with regard to grass seeds, has long been a key concern of the Liberal Alliance, which is why we are, of course, extremely pleased with this bill and we wholeheartedly support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428145425	Thank you. There are no more rapporteurs in the rapporteur's line, so the last to speak is the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428145434	Thank you. Thank you for the comments made by the rapporteurs and for the positive reception of the draft law. As several of you have mentioned, we are very good at the seed and seed business in Denmark, and it is also true, as the Socialist rapporteur mentioned, that it brings us 3.4 billion. kr. a year. These are grass seeds, of course, which you can enjoy, and which have most recently played an important role in connection with the World Cup in football in Russia in 2018, but also at the Olympics in Brazil in 2016 and at many other good events. So, of course, we can culturally welcome that. Here too, it must be stressed how important culture is in our country, including seed culture. We are therefore helping to provide a better basis for this bill. In addition to that, it is also beet seeds, spinach and clover seeds that we are well engaged in the sale of. It is, of course, our skilled agricultural industry that we can attribute to it, but in order for such a thing to work, there must also be a good certification and certification apparatus, because it helps us to maintain an incredibly high standard. After all, that is what we are creating a new model, also a new model of pricing, in the context of so-called variety list approval, plant news protection and seed certification. Regardless of the fact that it seems very technical, especially for the uninitiated, and I fully agree with that, it is therefore a model that can help us to deliver high-quality seeds to the rest of the world in the future as well. It is, of course, a model that we have developed together with the industry, and it primarily ensures that the tasks which are not classic regulatory tasks which the authorities have to perform can be carried out by designated companies in a competitive environment. After all, we are getting a more flexible price structure based on supply and demand, compared to the way it is today, when all the services are paid for. So in this way it is also economic and financial for the benefit of the industry. The bill is targeted at the breeders of new plant varieties, where this plant news protection allows for the possibility of obtaining a licence from the users who are of the individual variety. The protection and possibility of licensing is, of course, of great importance for companies to continue to develop new plant varieties. This is one of the areas where we can see that in future it will be of great benefit to the environment, to the industry and also to Danish exports, because some of the new varieties that are being developed are varieties that can be used precisely in connection with climate change. They can, for example: be more drought-tolerant or disease-resistant and thus also be part of the work to secure crops that are more climate-resistant. It is also aimed at seed companies producing and trading seed on the world market, where the existence of common rules in this area also offers good export opportunities. Overall, with this model, we will ensure that there will be more players competing in the market for testing new varieties. The TystofteFonden, which has so far been responsible for everything, can of course also apply to stay, but this means that decisions on these approvals and certifications are taken from TystofteFonden to the Plant News Board. It is clear, of course, that this is to ensure better and more equal conditions of competition. So I think it is important that this bill establishes a more permanent system which, on the one hand, creates the very best opportunities for us to have a flexible pricing structure for those tasks which do not have the character of the exercise of authority, and, on the other hand, still ensures State control over the pricing of the tasks which are the exercise of authority which companies can obtain from the undertaking to which they are delegated. In this way, we therefore support innovation and trade in new plant varieties. That's what's been the point of the whole thing. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen asks why it should be adopted now and here. I can say that, within my area of responsibility, of course, we have also helped to postpone legislative proposals. This is one of those we would have liked to have been treated because it has been incredibly long along the way. You are currently running with a fee notice, which is no reason to continue. So now you can get converted the fees for regular payment, as is also provided for in the law. So it is important for the industry and that is why, of course, I also hope that the favourable reception, which I also heard from the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, will also apply to the Enhedslisten. So, thank you for your consideration, and if there are any questions, we can take them bilaterally, but also in the further reading of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428150029	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428150038	It is always good to get a good explanation, and it is so little driven by the fact that it is a draft law that has been on the way for a long time and that you want something that is more liberal. As a reflection on that, I would like to say that this is not just a question of some actors who think it is interesting to develop something that they can make money on the short track. We have seen a number of things that are driven by the need to produce more and more feed for Danish agriculture, but we also have the dilemma of who it is that ensures that some quality food is developed for human beings. What are some cereals that are best for bread making? It is not automatically the cereals which produce the highest yield but which, as such, have a nutritional quality. Then the Minister also mentions that there may be some development that should happen because we are having a changed weather due to climate change, and then we have organic production that demands some varieties other than what traditional agriculture wants. So I would like to hear from the Minister whether there can be no variety development that should be dealt with in addition to what the liberal professions can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428150144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428150147	There's no problem with that. But I would like to stress that the way in which this is going on is, of course, that it is things and ideas and proposals that come from agriculture and from those who produce these varieties, as well as, of course, the research which is also being carried out under the Tystofte Fund. So there are all the possibilities, including with this construction that lies here. In fact, I would say better opportunities for you to develop varieties in the future at the same high level as we have had so far, but which can help to solve some of the climate challenges we have and also create a better environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428150233	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428150238	Yeah, now we got an explanation that this bill had been a long time in the process. I heard in the corridors that an angle on why it had to be dealt with was that because of the European Union, we could not move on with the current conditions relating to how to deal with it. I would really like to know if that is correct. Because that is not something I have been able to see from the text, and I do not think that what to say has been an easy legislative proposal to read.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428150304	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428150306	No, I admit that I also said in my introduction that it is a very technical bill. There is no doubt that we were ready to table a bill earlier, where the Ministry of Justice could then see that there were a number of legal complications in that bill, and that is what has done, so far we can adopt this bill, we have had a decree which can now be replaced on the basis of the law here, so that it is no longer fee-financed but financed by ordinary pricing. So, yes, there have been legal complications in this, which has now been clarified with the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428150353	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then I will just give you the opportunity for the food rapporteurs to be replaced with the housing rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428150501	I would point out that, since we are discussing several legislative proposals together, there are double speaking time for the rapporteurs and the Minister during the speeches by the rapporteurs and the Minister, but the same speaking time for the brief remarks that you are used to. I must also point out that we in the Bureau have decided to change the way in which the debate is conducted. The change means that all speeches are taken out of the seats, both ministerial and rapporteur speeches and short remarks. For the purpose of drawing up the minutes, it is very important that you do not start talking until the red ring on the microphone lights up. And as usual, you will be able to see your remaining speaking time at the bottom right of the voting panel. The debate is open and the first to speak is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Henrik Møller, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428150645	Thank you. Before the elections, the Social Democratic Party came up with a proposal, a housing proposal that had ten points of reference. And one of those we had here was a stop to the massive purchase by foreign capital funds of cheap rentals. There is a need to tighten the legislation so that foreign capital funds are limited in buying cheap rentals in order to make quick money through large rent increases. Foreign capital funds should not make money by pushing ordinary employees out of the city. So you could say that already here we tried to address something we thought was a problem at least. The paper of understanding produced by the government states: "In the larger cities, many people with regular wages cannot afford to live. To counter this, there is a need, among other things, for a dispute with the purchase of cheap housing by foreign capital funds. It can be said that it is against this background that today we have a first reading of draft law L 176, Bill L 177 and Bill L 178 and that is with satisfaction on my part. These are three different legislative proposals, but they are linked to the political agreement reached on 30 January this year. It is an agreement that contains some concrete measures against short-term speculation in private rental property. And this is where one can say that one of the key things that lies in this is the five-year waiting period, which we have also called a stop to speculation, and which is one of the cornerstones of this. But it's also an agreement that, in addition to this season, also contains other elements. If we are going to do something like this, it makes sense to think in terms of the environment and the green line when we talk about housing. And this is also done here, as a result of the introduction of a genuine green energy requirement, which means that improvements only need to be made in accordance with § 5 (1). 2, when the property has reached energy class C or has been lifted with at least two levels. However, there is not only a requirement that is in and out of it an incentive in which one envisages that the waiting period should not apply when the energy class is raised by at least three levels or at least 3,000 DKK. per square meters. So it can be said here that the proposal should be seen slightly in the light of the decision to reduce our CO2 by 70%. This could definitely be part of the solution to some of it. In this proposal we have also had a definite rent brake that puts an end to the word substantially. And that is actually a significant change, you might say, because there has been such a self-enhancing effect, compared with the value of the rent so that one could require a rent that was not significantly above the value of the rent. And what is the essential criterion per person? In general, we have seen such an increase spiral of 10%. of the rent above the value of the rent, which has allowed the basis of comparison to be continually and continuously increased. It's a grip that we think and think is really good. Then, in addition to the rent brake, which is in this, there is also a strengthening of the tenants, and that has been a great wish. It can be said that one of the things in the text of the agreement is that no one should be squeezed out of their homes. And with this, we're adding that it's not supposed to be allowed to buy out the tenants. A rent register must be established to increase the transparency of rental levels. It is the case that the rent board's estimates of comparative rentals should pay particular attention to comparative rentals already tested on the rental boards. An inspection requirement is also introduced before the improvements under § 5 (1). 2. A requirement for information must also be introduced when dealing with cases in the rent boards and the landowners' investment fund. A requirement must be introduced for decisions to be notified to the owner's representative or tenants. The fee that rents when the tenant gets a full allowance is increased, and this is increased from 2,180 DKK. We hope and believe that this will have a preventive effect. There will also be the possibility of an increase in the amount that may be charged by the resident representation from the tenants; the possibility of establishing a system in which all the rent board decisions will be published; we will begin to examine this. A committee shall be set up with the aim of analysing how best to organise the efforts to resolve disputes between tenants and landlords. When I spend some time on that section on the relationship of tenants, it is of course because, after the three legislative proposals, we also have a motion for a resolution in here. And there I think we are making sure and taking care of the tenants in relation to what has been proposed in the legislation here. It is also laid down in the legislation that our cooperative housing associations will have an opportunity to maintain value assessments, and this is due to the fact that during the debate there were doubts about the future of the cooperative housing in this respect, but with the idea that the value assessments can be maintained, we believe that we have solved the problems that could exist in relation to the cooperative housing. We agree that the demand for green investment in this will mean something in general for the market, but we think that the effect that comes from also thinking green in this area exceeds the negative that may be in this respect. It is the case that there will be no waiting period if a cooperative housing association passes into private rental, and it will be the case that, compared with the normal Staff Regulations, it will be by a four-fifths majority that this can be done. So all in all, there is an agreement here where we say that we want housing development with a mixed housing market, but that there must also be an economy that means that our cities will not experience a distortion in relation to what you have to pay for living here. So on the part of the Social Democrats, we are very excited about these legislative proposals and, of course, we are voting in favour of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428151354	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428151403	Thank you. I am not surprised that the Social Democrats and the Liberal Alliance take a different view of the value of rent regulation. It has always been the case that the Social Democratic Party has held special interests here for those who already have a rental residence, while the Liberal Alliance has stood on the side of the more general public interest, including for those who would like to have a rental residence in the future. So we should not discuss that; it is a political difference and a difference in relation to whether you are dealing with particular interests or general interests. What I would like to ask is why the Social Democratic Party has not ensured that this intervention in the housing market does not affect people who have a cohabitation. I mean, why hasn't a change been made to the cooperative housing law so that this intervention on the rental home market doesn't have any negative effects on the cohabitation owners?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428151450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428151452	First of all, I would like to arrest this question as to whether we have a housing policy that only serves special interests or whether it is the interests of the general good that are in it. I think that this was a question of wanting to have a very mixed and flexible housing market, which enabled everyone to deal with it. In fact, we believe that, in addition to the energy investments that lie in this case, we have found a solution in relation to the cohabitants, which means that we could be largely indemnified by this. So I don't really share that notion that with this, we're punishing the co-dwellings.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428151529	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428151531	I'm noticing, sir. Henrik Møller's use of the term basically. It can of course be used every time you do something that hurts someone; then you can claim that it basically hurts you, but you don't think it hurts to an extent that is significant enough to avoid it. And my question is therefore still missing. This is damaging the cohabitation, it's affecting prices in a downward direction. Why did not the cohabitants be released from this by changing the cohabitation law, so that their value of the dwelling is not entirely dependent on the things you do in the housing market?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428151607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428151609	It is the case that the cooperative housing market, you might say, follows the private rental market around this. As a starting point, we do not intend to change that. So, the deterioration there is is, after all, the one that lies in the energy renovations and the energy requirements that lie in this and where it is estimated that it is 3%. So that's why I use the concept pretty much. I am convinced that the market we see in the cooperative housing sector will also thrive and be well in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428151645	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428151654	I remember on 10 December last year when the Minister and others had thrown the Danish People's Party and the other parties from the blue bloc out of the negotiations. That's where we sat before the FSA. And two days later we were given a talk about the overall effect of such an agreement on the cooperative homes. And there I kept asking: why can we not get the overall calculation of what the overall proposal will mean for the cooperatives? - Sir... Henrik Møller remembers what the head of department was like, and the FSA, who had come to the table that evening, among other things. The Danish People's Party wasn't there?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428151741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428151748	Oh, I could, if mr. Jens Rohde had helped me by saying that, you might say. I do not immediately remember what was said, but I am told in the second round exactly what it is. I might as well have been told in the first round. However, I am still referring to the fact that the assessments that lie in relation to the Ministry are based on the fact that the loss that will be in relation to cooperative housing is on the 3% which is, you might say, the green decisions that lie in this and which, in relation to the talk and discussions that we have had, have been broadly supportive of, so this was a good idea, since we were going to have a change in relation to § 5 paragraph 5. 2.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428151825	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428151828	When Mr. Henrik Møller now doesn't remember, sir. Henrik Møller may look into the note that was sent to us by the FSA after the meeting with the FSA, where they repeatedly say and write on the part of the FSA: You cannot assess the total because there are derived effects. So you can't just take the waiting period and then say it has no effect. It may not have the great effect alone, but the derived effects of the other things you do can have negative consequences. That's what it says. And when I mention it, it is because the Minister and the Social Democrats are always using it here. And then I was told that there is no method to calculate it all together. It's not methodically correct. And that's why it's a funny claim from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428151920	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428151922	I am, of course, referring to the answers and reports that have been received, including from the Ministry, about this. But I think that the situation we are facing today also shows that one thing is that there may be some consequences in relation to making a change in relation to § 5 paragraph 5. 2. But right now we are subject to, it might be said, some much greater consequences that we do not know the long-term consequences of yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428151948	Then the next for a brief comment is Mrs Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428151954	Yes, what the Socialist rapporteur says is absolutely right. Right now we are in a situation of which we do not know the consequences. We are in a huge crisis, both nationally and globally. And so it may also be wondering why the Social Democratic Party has pushed for these three legislative proposals now; why it has not chosen to show a little more consideration in relation to those who are affected, among other things. the co-habitants. Why does this partout have to be pushed through now? Why haven't you tried to push this in the fall? This has, of course, been done with other draft legislation in the housing sector, which was even further advanced in the process. So we in the Left are very puzzled, why we are not showing a little more care in this area, because we have this very great uncertainty about values, including the values of property in Denmark. And it's gonna be important. This will have an impact on what we have of liquidity in society. So I would like an answer from the Social Democratic Party to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428152057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428152059	But in the first place we have had, I think, a long process around this, where there has also been a huge discussion that, when the process has been going on, it has created an uncertainty on the market and that one would really like to have a clarification of what we can rely on in the long term. The present situation, compared with the autumn, is not necessarily going to change anything, and we may be dealing with a very, very long period of time in which there is uncertainty as to what is going to happen. I mentioned what we went to the polls before this, and we still think so. In other words, should there be any change in relation to this market, one might say that it will then perhaps be crucial that you have these tools to work with compared to the fact that we do not experience a buy-in precisely in view of this very short-term profit that exists. That is one of the reasons why we want to stick to July as a deadline.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428152154	Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428152156	I think it's a little strange that you just say that now it's kind of been in pipeline for a long time. There are plenty of other legislation that has done so and that has been pushed. So why is it that the Social Democrats believe that even more uncertainty should be created in an area where there is already a great deal of uncertainty? Why is it so important to push through these three bills now instead of showing a little more timely care, showing a little more willingness to listen a second time? The Left, together with several of the other bourgeois parties, asked the Minister whether it was not a good idea to extend the consultation period, because we thought it was essential that those who are now players in this area were given an opportunity to make their views known in the light of what has happened in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428152245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428152246	I mean, I think it's funny. We certainly look at it very differently in that we actually believe that this gives some certainty, that it provides some clarification. Failure to take a decision will help create an uncertainty over a long period of time which I certainly do not think we need. So I see nothing to prevent us from implementing this decision now. It will provide some clarification on what one has to stick to in relation to what is termed § 5 para. 2-renovations, forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428152314	Then it's Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428152319	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no doubt that the market partners have reacted differently, and a great many have responded by saying that there are huge falls in terms of cooperative housing. Has it ever impressed the rapporteur in the long process that we have been working on here, even with regard to the growing signs of crisis that we are already seeing, that it may help to influence extra negative both in relation to the cooperative housing, but also in relation to the entire real estate market?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428152352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428152354	Well, I have been following the debate that has taken place and there have been many actors with many different interests in this regard. However, one of the things I find very interesting in this connection is that on 31 January, the day after the political agreement has been concluded, there will be a press release from the ABF saying that the political agreement means better conditions in the area of cooperative housing. And since ABF is like the cohabitants' organization, I feel pretty confident that it's a good deal we've made.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428152432	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428152434	Could it be imagined that all the other market players could in any way have a different impression from ABF, i.e. that their assessments could be different? What is the rapporteur's view of the fact that at least many others on the market have a completely different assessment from that made by ABF itself and I have seen it today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428152500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428152502	I refer again to the fact that what is the association in this area, which is, of course, the one that everything else ought to have the most insight into the conditions that exist, about cooperative housing, says that this is actually a good deal. That is why I feel reasonably confident about the decision we are making.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428152521	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428152526	Thank you. But to bring it forward as a witness of truth in this matter is simply a little untrustworthy. If, at the same time, you have some things that you would very much like to get through with the same minister, should you go and step over his toes at this time, and there are some people who have to say it in the Chamber, and then you do it? No, of course you're thinking about what you've got in there. You could also look at the FSA, which clearly says: the other measures will, however, lower the value of the property and thereby the loaning opportunities for the association. So why don't we just drop the discussion on whether it is demeaning the values? Because it does. Then it remains to be seen that it is the Social Democrats' view that you can live with, because you want to punish some foreign capital funds that you think are a huge problem. That is why my question to the Social Democratic Party is: exactly where in the legislation is it now prohibited for foreign asset managers to invest in these properties?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428152629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428152631	It can be said that there is nowhere in this House where there is a ban. Well, we don't forbid anyone to invest in this. What lies in the bill here is that it may be said that it is less attractive to make short-term investments with a view to a quick sale with a very large gain, and this applies, in fact, both to foreign investors, but also to domestic investors. It is, of course, because we want a stable housing market where there are some who invest in it that do not just need to use it as an investment item for a quick gain. But there's nothing in this that means that foreign investors can't invest in this market. But it may not be as attractive for short-term profits.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428152718	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428152720	No, and then it could be that this was a big problem and that a lot of people did it. But we were just asking the ministry about that, and there were no examples of anyone doing this thing. Then the rapporteur can come and say that so and so many have done this trick, which should now be the huge social problem, because the ministry could not do it under ministerial responsibility, and therefore a question remains: why do you want to harm the nurses' pensions and reduce them? Why would you want to harm the cooperative associations in order to come after some foreign capital societies, where you have not been able to give a single example of how they actually bought them, renovated them and sold them again with the fancy that you claim?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428152800	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428152802	No, I mean, now I want to say that if you've been following a little bit, even in relation to the media around this, with the stories we've been seeing about some of these funds that have been in there, pushing people out in order to actually get to work on these apartments and earn this money, then I think that we have that way around we have proof of these stories. We have, of course, had the discussion about the cooperative houses here, and I do not share the view and the black view expressed in some of the hearings in connection with this. I have explained these three per cent, I believe, in relation to green investment. So I don't think we're shooting gray sparrows with guns here. In fact, I believe that we are making a fairly precise intervention which will ensure a good market for the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428152851	Thank you. And before we move on to the next rapporteur, I would remind you that it is only speaking time when there are rapporteur speeches or ministerial speeches that have doubled the speaking time for the short remarks.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428152911	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for the message that we have double speaking time. I could have used it yesterday when I had to sit and cut my speech down. So I'm trying to stay on the five minutes instead. In the Left, we believe that it is absolutely crucial that there is security about the Danes' housing economy, regardless of whether the dwelling is a rental, cohabitation or owner's residence, because the dwelling is the foundation of the Danes' everyday life. And at a time like this, when the covid-19 is at the top of the agenda, we all need to feel safe. Therefore, there is a need to act with due care, overview and thoughtfulness. The Left believes that the submission of the three draft laws is a lack of all three parts... it's definitely bad timing. The proposals will have far-reaching long-term effects on the Danish housing market, which is harmful. Yes, not only the housing market, but also employment is adversely affected by the government's proposals. The government's agreement turns off a brand just to start another brand, yes, just to start more fires. This applies to cooperative housing, housing for rents and employment. In the Left, we will not be part of an agreement that undermines the cooperative housing market. There's nothing new about that. In the Left, we will not be part of an agreement that will mean that in ten years' time we will have a lower standard of housing and that we will not bid the tenants. And in the Left we do not want to be part of an agreement that reduces employment and then at a time when the Danish economy is extremely vulnerable. L 176 is presented as part of the green transition, i.e. to reduce the climate load of the rental property, as stated in the comments. In the left we want the green transition. It is good when an owner chooses to energy-renovate his property or residence. The trend towards higher energy renovation requirements is nothing new. This is a development that we have been politically supportive of for many years, in which housing intended to be Section 5, paragraph 5. 2-renovated, everything changed from old leaky windows, old sanitation to the use of ceilings for residential use. In this way, the Housing Regulation Act has § 5 para. 2 contributed positively to increasing the number of buildings that have been refurbished. But forward-looking, this is uncertain. The government's bill shows that the number of buildings being renovated is falling by over two thirds. In other words, fewer apartments will be renovated. It is clear that the housing stock we will have in ten years will have a lower standard of housing, a lower standard of well-being, because fewer housing in the private housing rental stock will have been renovated. Is that really what the Minister wants? The proposal goes beyond the cohabitants. On paper you may be able to freeze the ratings, but in the real world it becomes harder to borrow for the cohabitation. Several first-time buyers are cut off, but also those who have reasonable incomes, but perhaps not the large savings. Again, is that really what the Minister wants? L 177's carnage period has come out of thin air. It was not included in the solutions examined in the expert report. Since then, it has become apparent that if the Karen period is used at all, even more bureaucracy needs to be made up; the change of control is the new invention. More trouble. The proposal seasons the waiting period with what is called a green incentive, but the incentive is not greener than the government itself writes that it is expected to be used in relatively few cases. With that conclusion, has the government not disqualified its own green incentive? Finally, it is no secret that we were several parties that saw the strengthening of the rent boards as crucial to solving the challenges that have actually been faced by a few landlords. The Minister did not want that. L 178 is far from being as developed in its actions as we might wish. More can be done, more clearly. Here we can see that we are very far from the government. Because in the Left we think it is absolutely crucial that we have a well-functioning rent board where tenants and landlords can resolve disputes quickly and impartially and which can act as a deterrent to those who do not comply with the rules of the game for determining the rent. Basically, we are puzzled by the great haste to get the law through. Again: We stand nationally and globally in a very serious situation that will have consequences for Danish families, Danish economy, of which no one yet knows the full extent. When the government then chooses to push through legislation that will increase the number of unemployed in construction, then we wonder. At the same time, the government has chosen to go a way where the cooperative housing is affected. The government is concerned in the media about employment and with good reason, I might add. We in the Left are extremely concerned about this too. We have asked the government to stop and at least push the legislative proposals in the autumn to create some overview, show care and thought. But instead, the government is rushing through the Left for stability and security about the Danes' housing economy, especially when we are in a time when there is uncertainty about so much else. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428153433	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428153439	Thank you. There were many good examples of what the Left does not want, in the rapporteur's speech, which is why I would also like to ask the rapporteur: there have been many examples around the country, especially in the big cities, especially in Copenhagen, but also in Aarhus on landlords who bought property, put in a new kitchen, put in a new bath and raised the rent by 400 per cent. Does the Left actually believe that it was a sustainable development that apartments in Copenhagen and in Aarhus, in other words in the big cities, eventually became so expensive because it was the market alone that had to regulate it, and that in this way ordinary employees were squeezed out of the city and out of apartments in the big cities?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428153529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428153531	But in the Left we are in favour of having mixed towns and having a mixed housing stock where people with different incomes have the opportunity to live. If we are then asked in concrete terms whether we think it is sustainable, then I would say that this was already the case, and Mrs Kirsten Normann also knows that the rent board already made decisions as it was, where the landlord lost the cases. It was also the case that we saw a concrete example that one of the actually not so big players, but one of those who posed a problem on the market, was out and getting the rent changed in relation to those cases. That's why we want to strengthen the rent boards. That is because when we have well-functioning rental boards, they solve a large part of the problem, and for the Left it is just important that the tenants continue to have up-to-date housing and housing that is in good condition, and we fear that this is the wrong way to go and that in ten years' time we will have a housing stock that is becoming increasingly worn down.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428153638	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428153639	Does the rapporteur seriously consider that Article 5 (5) of the directive. 2-renovations are the only way to ensure that housing develops and avoids being worn out on the long lane, and that it really must have a connection with a rent increase of 400 per cent, i.e. to change a kitchen and a bath? I was out to see an apartment at Frederiksberg, where you could see how good both kitchen and bath were, but the price rises by 400 per cent. the moment the apartment is removed and new kitchen and bathe in. Is it to maintain the housing stock? And if it's a possible way... Fourth Vice-President Thank you). Sorry, that's because you just can't see the President when you turn the wrong way, and you can't see the clock either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428153719	No, it's kind of a tough move we're doing, so of course I understand. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428153723	Now I do not know the specific example given by the rapporteur, but I would think that this is one of the issues that will be lost in the rent board. That's what this is all about. It is about ensuring the tenants, and the landlords, by means of independent rental boards, where they receive proper treatment and where there is transparency, so that we have a housing market that is understandable and that we know how to act. And then it's all about not putting the price to protect the tenants on another group. We don't have to put out one fire somewhere to start another. I mean, it is not a thorough political work that is going on here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428153805	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428153810	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left about the timing of this bill, because I am of a slightly different opinion. Indeed, I have a very great concern that some very large capital funds will take advantage of this crisis to buy up housing in Copenhagen, and then we will have Blackstone cases again in a year's time, and we in the Enhedslist want very much to avoid that situation. That is why I really think it is timely care that this proposal for a directive should be put on the agenda now. So I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left what is really going to be done to ensure that we are not in exactly this situation we are in on the rental market right now, in a year's time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428153852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428153854	Well, I would hope that Denmark is so attractive that someone will put money in Denmark, so that we secure Danish jobs, and so that employment is kept going. I would actually have thought that Enhedslisten would like to ensure that we have a good job, because that is something we will need. We believe, and I have said this a moment ago, that the answer is solid rental boards, where you can get a quick procedure, where you know that when you as a tenant send in your complaint, you get a quick treatment, get a quick answer, so you don't have that insecurity. This is about creating security for the tenants. It's about having security for the cohabitants. It is all about the Danes knowing that there is security about their housing economy at all. Surely we need this more than ever.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428153940	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428153942	In the Enhedslisten we would very much like to help keep employment going, which is why we believe that due care should be taken and that all the construction works of the Landsbyfund should be set in motion in general housing. This is another debate. I cannot understand how it can be safe for the tenants that Blackstone has now exploited this crisis to actually bring about new harassment and new threats. I fear that will happen more if we do not put in place regulation. So I would like to hear what the rapporteur of the Left really means by ensuring that the tenants are safe, because we do not see it as security for the tenants that one can be harassed by one's landlord in the way we have seen happening particularly in Copenhagen over the last few years.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428154025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428154028	I would say that if Enhedslisten knows of cases where specific companies, as Enhedslisten stands and mentions in the Chamber, have exceeded the rules, I would strongly recommend Enhedslisten to take hold of the tenants and tell them to file their complaint with the rent board. Moreover, I hope that the Enhedslisten will support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left to further strengthen the rent board. I certainly hope so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428154056	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428154102	Thank you. First of all, I want to arrest the fact that we're going to force any of what we're going to get through. In relation to the law catalogue, it has always been planned that we should wear this in April. And that's kind of what we have now, so I can't see that we're rushing anything. What can be said is that we maintain what we had initially proposed. But I would just like to ask the Left how it is in relation to the bill, Bill No. L 176 which is, of course, a question of the green incentives and green requirements that lie in it, but in itself also a freeze in relation to the value assessments. This should be something for which the Left could vote today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428154145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428154147	Thank you for the question. Yes, as I mentioned in the rapporteur's speech, we are positive in the Left in that we are renovating our housing stock. We see, of course, that § 5 paragraph 5 paragraph 5 paragraph 5 paragraph 5 paragraph 5 paragraph 5 paragraph 5 paragraph 5 paragraph 5 paragraph 5 paragraph 5 paragraph 5 paragraph 5 paragraph This has contributed to the change of thermal windows in old buildings. This has contributed to the replacement of sanitation. It has contributed to a large number of things. That is why we are surprised when we now choose to say that two thirds of the renovations that could otherwise be expected are not going to happen. It is going to hit employment, and I would like to hear from the Social Democrat rapporteur about this: how does the Social Democrats feel about this, that this is going to hit employment at a time when we absolutely do not need it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428154232	Sir. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428154234	Well, I find it hard to see immediately how this could affect employment. As has been said, there is not only Section 5, paragraph 5. 2; there are other possibilities here too. We can hope that this will help inspire, so somebody's actually starting these energy renovations. But I did not get a clear answer, I think, on whether the Left intends to vote in favour of L 176, which is, after all, one of the things that is being talked about very positively. That should be possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428154303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428154305	It is the case that we want energy renovation, but we are not convinced that this is going to give those energy renovations, because the bill says that there will be two thirds fewer renovations in the housing stock. And since we know that a large number of the renovations that have been due to § 5 para. Secondly, it has also contributed to energy improvements, so we simply do not believe in it. Then we can also see that it is going to hit employment. And I do not understand how the Social Democrat rapporteur does not see that it affects employment when there are fewer renovations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428154342	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428154345	It is absolutely absurd to claim that this does not affect employment, because there will be fewer renovations. Well, look at that. It's gonna pay for itself. But we are going to ask that question. I would like to hear the rapporteur from the Left in relation to the discussion that has been going on here. I think it was with Mrs Rosa Lund about the fact that suddenly there are just big acquisitions and that they want to protect themselves from that. There's not a single real estate deal going on. It has come to a complete halt. And if that were the case, wouldn't it be natural that those real estate deals had taken place before we had this treatment today, and that there is a reason why those real estate transactions have stopped altogether?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428154430	Left rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428154432	But that is precisely the question: what if we do not have those who want to invest in our properties? What if we don't have those who want to improve our housing stock? Well, then we'll have less private rentals. Does Enhedslisten, SF and Social Democrat stand then in 10 years and say: It is also just the miserable private landlords who will do nothing? Or do they stand and take responsibility for the fact that they have actually helped make a decision that means that those who rent in the private housing stock do not get as good housing as they might otherwise have been given?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428154505	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, Mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428154526	Thank you. I would like to say that in the case of the Danish People's Party we are very pleased that we have these proposals on today. And what is this really about? Yeah, it's about Section 5. 2 and what is this? Indeed, in 1996 it was provided for in the rent law that rent income could be increased further if a thorough renovation was carried out. Then why was it done in 1996? This was done because we simply had too many leases that were too poor; housing standards were too low in Denmark. That's why they made this kind of thing, we're gonna call it a waiver from the lease law to make these investments. So one can say that today we have much better housing, and one suggestion was that it was also for Enhedslisten that one could then just remove § 5 paragraph. 2. Because then you were back to normal before 1996; then you didn't have the problem anymore. I would like to say that we did not agree with the Danish People's Party because we wanted these investments. It was just to tell you what it's all about. Then why is it that we think it is important to make an intervention now? If you look at it, it's actually about something quite different from the tenants... it's actually more about the investors. We have a very, very low interest rate, it is actually difficult to get your money back all over the world, and that is why we have seen that suddenly Denmark had become interesting for investment funds around the world. Why do you suddenly start buying housing in Denmark as a foreign investment fund? Because you can interest your money better here than you can anywhere else. What we've experienced is that if we just look at the period from 2014 until now it's a period of 6 years... the square meter price of property sold has gone from DKK 13,000. per square meters to 25,000 kroner. per square meters. If you just look at the period from 2018 to 2019 • a period of 1 year • the price increased by 22 per cent.; so interesting it had become to invest in Denmark. And why was that? It was, of course, because we had Section 5, paragraph 5. 2 as we were for But what was important to us was, of course, that the housing stock was upgraded; the most important thing was not that you should have the high return. The challenge is then that it happens by relocation. And it has to be said, as another rapporteur mentioned earlier, that there were a few stumbled vessels that were definitely not all, because it is not the case that because you are a private landlord, you are a bandit; you are certainly not the one who broke the rules and pushed people out of their homes in order to be able to take the increased rent after the renovation. We would like to do something about this, and we believe that this is something we will certainly do with the legislative proposal before us today. What has been well advanced is, as has also been said, that the Socialist-led government, which is a one-party government, even before the elections, said that it would do something about that. And that's right, as Mr. Jens Rohde and others have said that it gave such a complete stop in the market. Because what would happen now? Did you dare buy? What would you do? So this is also about calming the market, both for the tenants, but also for the investors, because what kind of legislation is it that you trade in if you shop with property in Denmark? This will now be clarified when we have the third reading of this proposal here. So that is certainly also a clarification for investors. What has happened then was that the government started out hard and said that there should be a ten-year waiting period. We did not agree with that; we thought that a ten-year waiting period would be too hard. This would certainly make it a very violent stop compared to these renovations of properties in Denmark, which are still needed away. We still have a number of older properties that need renovations. When you look at the agreement as it stands today, there is a five-year waiting period. Is it then a waiting period which applies to all properties if you make a § 5 paragraph. 2-renovation? Actually, it's not like there's any way to avoid having this waiting period. It is precisely if you go in and make a major energy renovation; if you go in and do what you might call a real and profound renovation of the property, then you do not have the waiting period. Several people have said so and I would assume that it is also true that the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority and others have said on 10 December that if a waiting period were introduced, the cooperatives would suffer. I think that is actually quite right; of course it would. That is why it is also important to look at the legislative proposal that lies here, which shows that the carnage period is not exactly and what does it mean? This means, in fact, that if a cohabitation is sold on the market, it is more attractive than a rental home, because a cohabitation is not surrounded by the carnage period. So it will be more attractive to buy, and if something is more attractive to buy, it certainly does not fall in price; then it increases in price or becomes easier to trade. So I think that was quite right when it was said at that time in December that this would have a major impact on the cooperatives, but after 30 January when we concluded the agreement, we have, among other things, one. removed that part. Then they say this is gonna affect the market. Yes, it will. There is no doubt that it will, but we have also seen massive price increases. What we have worked into here is a bubble that has been on commercial properties, especially in the larger cities like Copenhagen. This isn't a Copenhagen phenomenon, this is such a European phenomenon. We have also seen it in London and other cities where they have experienced the same challenges, because it is difficult to place their capital. Then you can place it in real estate in the larger European cities and there you can get a reasonable return. That's fair enough. In the Danish People's Party we have no problem with capital coming to Denmark; that capital comes in and renovates our properties and helps build our businesses and hold hands during employment. It doesn't matter, but it has to be done on a proper basis, and we certainly think we can provide that with the legislative proposals that are now in place. We are very pleased that we have also got the green incentive into this agreement. After all, we are part of the agreement, including with all the other parties, on the 70% target and it will be difficult to achieve. But why on earth shouldn't we put it in when we talk about housing? It's actually one of those areas where we use a lot of energy. It will also provide a better indoor climate and, in fact, it will also provide a better economy for those who live for rent. This means that their heating bills and other things will actually be cheaper. It is therefore very good that we have also incorporated this green incentive into the agreement. Nor should we be mistaken that with the way in which we have arranged things here with the value of the rent and the value of the rent and the 10% that the Social Democrat rapporteur had over the last ten per cent, one has to say that there have been examples where it has been seen that the value of the rent has always been increased, because there have been single apartments that have increased around this 10%, and over a number of years they have been able to continue to rise and rise and increase, and then suddenly there have been some occasions that have been very cheap and some that have been very expensive, and what has the real rental price been in the area? Now that you are a citizen, you want to let the market decide, and of course you can't take more for an apartment than someone wants to give. That's the way it is. If you set an exorbitant price, no one will rent it either. The challenge is that we also think there should be housing for the police officer, the nurse and others. I think it was the rapporteur of the Left who mentioned it in his rapporteur's speech: why not for them? This is precisely so that the police officer and the nurse who works in Copenhagen, works in Aalborg, works in Aarhus, can actually also be allowed to live in the city where they have their work with the income that their position has. So, all in all, I would like to say that we are pleased with the legislative proposals that are coming here today. We are also very pleased that we have tightened up several things in relation to the rent board so that you can get your cases run. There we will follow up very closely what is, after all, an estimate in the text of the agreement that this will release a 5 million. kr., I think that's where you can bring down the processing times. This is one of the things that we will follow up very closely, also afterwards, because we have not agreed to do so in such a strict manner. But, of course, we also expect, after we have made the pricing policy, that there will be fewer cases, and thus the processing times will also come down. However, the processing times are important, and they are both for tenants, but certainly also for landlords, so that the disputes that exist are resolved so that you can move forward, both as tenant and as landlord. So we look forward to dealing with the matter and look forward to it being implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428155402	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428155406	Sir. After all, René Christensen is sorry that he may not quite know the premise for the FSA's assessment at the time, since he was not present either at the meeting. It wasn't sir. René Christensen's fault, it was the other parties who had thrown Mr. René Christensen and his residential dealer out because one absolutely did not want to be in the coaching period. It would have been almost as a landscaping activity by DF's housing rapporteur if a period of waiting had been introduced, and that was quite a party brake in the negotiations. Then the DF joined after the Radical Left insisted that the bourgeois and the blue parties should join the negotiations again. You can laugh at that, or you can sit and fret about it from my chair, but fair enough. The thing is, we had the whole period of carnage in then. We had the value assessments inside, and the exemptions were therefore all that setup, like Mr. René Christensen mentions was already part of the premise. Nevertheless, the FSA would not put its head on the block. So what has changed for the Danish People's Party in those 24-32 hours when you go from one attitude to another?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428155527	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428155529	I can make that very clear. What is important to us is that broad agreements are made when it comes to housing policy. This is people's homes we're talking about, and there's no point in changing the majority. We see it in many other areas that then change the color, and then we have to do something else. You can't do that with housing policy. Therefore, it has been important for the Danish People's Party from day one that we would like to be part of this, and we would also like to be part of the agreement, and we had also hoped that it could be wider than it was, I would like to say that. I would also like to sign for the work that has been done with the blue rapporteurs and many of the things that have been included in the final agreement. But what has been important to us has been to have a broad settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428155607	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428155609	It was also for the Radical Left. That's why we insisted that you go back to the table. I fully agree with Mr. René Christensen: Broad agreements are very important. It seems that you can always define afterwards what a broad agreement is... it's kind of a matter of taste. But what puzzles me is that the Danish People's Party is one of the last parties to speak the evening when we sit with the Minister and the next day he throws it all on the floor. After all, it was a very, very cash line that the Danish People's Party led to the Minister there. And since the agreement is then concluded, I find it very difficult to see that there has been any response to the views of the Danish People's Party. So what is it that the Danish People's Party has got in this deal? Or is it a completely different deal you've got a promise on? It might be interesting to hear a little bit about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428155702	Thank you. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428155704	In any event, I can say that the agreement we have made relates to section 5, paragraph 5. 2, and nothing but that. I would also like to say that we think this is a good agreement. What can be said is that we have gone from the government's point of departure to a 10-year waiting period to a 5-year waiting period, while at the same time there is also the possibility, if you make a thorough renovation, where you have the green element and spend the funds on making a dwelling, which is • I have to use the expression "up to date," that then there is no waiting period. It was the most important thing for the Danish People's Party that we get some real, good renovations. We did not agree, as some sat at the table saying that it should not be foreign capital. It should be on a good basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428155742	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428155752	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we are, in our own self-understanding, a party that is very concerned about the substance of legislation and not so much about show and rhetoric and symbolism, etc., but we are asking: what is involved and what is it doing to society? Therefore, we had a meeting with the blue parties and the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party, where we agreed that in substance it was necessary to save the cohabitation property from being negatively affected by this legislation by saying that the cohabitation law had to be changed so that the cohabitation value was not linked to the value of a rental home. We agreed that it was a good idea in this circle of parties, and then we went out and presented it. So did the Danish People's Party. But then, apparently, according to the Danish People's Party, it happened that Mr. Jens Rohde filled too much on TV, and that's why you wouldn't be there anyway. And then you made an agreement with the government that you didn't give a damn about this element to protect the co-habitants. - Sir... René Christensen explain what this has on him?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428155853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428155855	I can do that. This has nothing to do with the bill. That is what is behind it, but it is of course important enough. What was important for the Danish People's Party, as I said to Mr. Jens Rohde, it was a broad deal. And I would like to say that the Danish People's Party has not at any time put forward a proposal that should be in the Assembly hall with a narrow bourgeois majority. We have not asked that at any time. This may have been the case in the press, but it was not the case, and I think there are others who can confirm that. What has been important to us was to clarify this. The important thing for us was to get the country an agreement, and I certainly believe that we have a good agreement both in terms of content for tenants, but indeed also for landlords, because there is now some clarification. I have some doubts about that if we had continued with the status paper that we had produced and which was an excellent paper. But I would also like to say that if you add that piece of paper to the agreement that was reached, you can see that far, by far, the vast majority of those elements are also included in the conciliation because we were as far in the negotiations as we were.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428155959	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428160000	Some of the things that are not and there is my question to the Danish People's Party: why is it not important? So what was important when we sat blue parties around a table to protect the co-habitants, why didn't Dansk Folkeparti think it was important when you made an agreement with the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428160034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428160036	That is the case, and the rapporteur for a liberal party knows that it is the market that decides what a home is worth. No matter what we write in an agreement, it is the market that determines what the homes can be traded for. What has been done now is that it has been said that the cooperatives are not part of the Karen period and I also explained this in my rapporteur's speech. This would mean that if a cooperative house were to enter the market, it would be more attractive, and then it would also have a higher value or be easier to trade, i.e. faster to sell. We have also made it clear that value assessments can still pass, so at least on paper they have their assessment; but it is the market that decides what a property is worth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428160114	Thank you. I have just come into the Chamber, so I should like to know if there is a further brief comment. We've had it. Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428160123	It is fair enough that Dansk Folkeparti would rather make agreements with Enhedslisten and SF if it is DF's definition of broad agreements than they will make agreements with New Civil and Conservatives. One could also have made one with all the parties in the blue block plus the Radicals, and that is what one might call a broad settlement. So it's a definition issue. Here we can only note that DF would rather do it with the socialists. I have a question. DF did not want any Karen period at all. When we left the negotiations, we were on a seven-year waiting period. One could have reached an agreement without a waiting period, so why would one agree to an agreement that is inferior in substance? In addition, an agreement could have been reached which did not diminish the value of the cohabitation at all, so why do you agree to an agreement that reduces the value of the cohabitation? Is it more important in procedural terms to enter into negotiations with the socialists and to make agreements with the socialists than with the bourgeois parties, so that you do not care that you have to meet a lot of things that you really do not want?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428160227	Sir. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428160229	I just have to say to New Citizens that housing policy is not really about having the good remark on Facebook or having the good remark on television; it is actually about the citizens' homes. That is where people live, it is about their lives, and so it is about making an agreement that is the right one and that can last in the years to come, where people have security in relation to their homes and homes. That is why we have reached the agreement we have reached. I would also like to say that when it is claimed in relation to the agreement that it is a claim that this should go very hard on the cohabitation, I consider that it is simply not true. It's funny, because when you talk to those who represent the cohabitants, they have the same assessment that this is not going to affect the cohabitants. It is true, then, that some investors would have liked to buy some cheap properties and they say this is a bad deal, but that is what supports the fact that it is probably not such a bad deal even. The next few days it was just the right people who were pissed off, and it was also just the right people who did not say much, so the agreement is probably quite fine because the reactions that came on it were entirely in line with what was expected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428160335	Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428160338	If the Danish People's Party believes that a karen period is a good idea, why spend all that gunpowder in the negotiations on that there should not be a karen period? I simply do not understand that. If you think it is a good idea that this should also affect the cooperative housing sector, why support the actions of an agreement with the blue parties where the cooperatives are being freed? I simply cannot see in substance what the Danish People's Party has gotten into this agreement, which they think improves the conditions, other than that it is a broad agreement, as it would also have been if the Radical Left had been in it, because then it would have held after elections. Right now the Radical Left and DF are equal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428160417	Sir. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428160418	That is simply not correct, because if you look at it, it is true that there has been a waiting period, and it is also true that when we left the negotiations it was seven years, but when we made the agreement it would have been five years, while the five years do not apply to the cooperatives. In fact, it has strengthened the position of the cooperatives that they do not have the five-year waiting period, while the rentals have the five-year waiting period. When the five years are there, one must also say that for the long-term investors it can be pension funds and other funds means nothing. Perhaps it does that for a fund that wants a quick return, because there may be a long time for five years. But for those we want to keep our hands under, our pension funds and our common fortunes there, 5 years means nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428160504	Thank you, sir. René Christensen. There are no more brief comments. Now it's sir. Jens Rohde, who has his rapporteur's speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428160514	Thank you. When we started these negotiations after the expert committee's thorough report and long work on this, it was very important for us that something should happen. I myself wanted to say that it is not going to happen, that nothing is going to happen. We should have a targeted problem solution, because that is quite right, there are some stingy vessels, as Mr. René Christensen says who used the system and who gave the tenants completely unfair treatment and, in some cases, even put them away from home because they did not have a chance to pay what was required. That is not the point of Section 5, paragraph 5. 2, and never was. I would also like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. René Christensen says he has been quite a success for the city renewal in Copenhagen. That should also be mentioned for the sake of the Socialists, since it was Mr. Mogens Lykketoft, who launched it. This meant that we didn't have the house at Christianshavn and now the minister is laughing because he has heard it a thousand times and is gradually getting a little tired of hearing me say the house at Christianshavn, but that is actually sincere. Nobody's interested in that. It's very fun to have cheap housing, but if there's a toilet in the yard, I think you'd pay off, after all. Then we put one more thing in perspective, and we even had it as a requirement. We made it clear to the minister that we wanted a broad agreement. The deeper the intervention, the wider the deal. And that is why we insisted that the blue parties come back in the fold after I came to a debate on 10 December and presented an agreement paper which should have been very much signed that evening but which I then chose not to sign. I asked to get the blue parties back in, because we believe, just like the Danish People's Party, that such housing agreements should be broad. Although it is difficult to make broad agreements, it may be an end in itself. That is why, during the negotiations, we did not make a single ultimate demand, in substance, not one ultimate demand, because we know that this is a show-stop when you want to have a broad agreement. In our starting point, we wanted to strengthen the tenants. This has also been partly done in the agreement that is, but not quite enough, we think. We wanted to strengthen the climate element, just like the government; that is what the Minister said at one of the first meetings we had, that is, that there should be a climate element. We are, of course, very pleased about this, but we are a little afraid that the climate element in the agreement is actually a show stop in terms of having the buildings renovated that are most in need, because it is very difficult to raise the energy class by three on the listed buildings • the really old buildings that are so in need of climate renovations. I mean, excuse me, there's almost gold prosses on the windows if you have to renovate for 3,000 kroner. per square meters. So perhaps we do not think that is appropriate, and that is not what was in the draft agreement the night we split last time. Then we also wanted to see that we have never concealed the fact that the cohabitants are being shielded as much as possible, and we had many, many discussions about that, and we had many debates out of it. Then it all breaks down in January, and then we're some people trying to make a deal, and then there's a different deal and all that. It is history, and from a political point of view it may seem either entertaining or grotesque, depending on temperament. From that I could then sit here on behalf of Radicals with my arms crossed and just be pissed off about it and think it was something strange. But nobody is getting anything out of it, and so I am not going to stand here today and say whether we can vote for at least elements of the legislative proposal, understood in the sense that it is divided into three. It is possible that we can vote in favour of parts of it. It is also possible if one could go in to see whether there could be a small response to some of the elements so that the overall part does not have the consequences that we would then be able to support it. I'm not gonna rule that out. It is not because I have the high hopes, but it should be mentioned that we are going to table some amendments which we hope we may be able to discuss and negotiate before they end up in the Chamber, to see if we can make some ends come together anyway, because we actually believe that there is an opportunity to do this better. This is particularly true in our view, since it does not make sense to demand that the buildings far from energy class C should be fully refurbished to C or refurbished to 3,000 DKK. or go up three energy classes. That is simply not realistic. You can't find one out of the market that means it's realistic. And Mr. René Christensen says himself: the market is not lying. No, it does not, because after all else has been said, the mortgage law applies. Something has been said by the ABF, the chairman of which shares party membership with the Minister, and from the Housing Economic Knowledge Centre, where I spoke to Mr. Curt Liliegreen to ask if you had calculations on what he gave us, and he then said: No, I have no calculations; that's knowledge. Oh, yeah, that's so cool. And then the FSA has also made their reservations, which they have given in that note, in relation to derived effects on the Karen period when other elements come along. Having said all that, the mortgage law applies, and I am aware that the mortgage law is not repealed in this bill. That is why you have to act on the market, and that is what you have to assess the barriers on the basis of. And that is what the market is not lying, because then what we need to see is what price trends are not based on an opinion poll, but on what people's lending opportunities are behind what people's financial situation is. Then you can say that it's the banks that use it, and it's just something they do because they want this to look bad. No, that is not the case, because it is the market price that needs to be adhered to, and the mortgage law is fairly clear in this context. That is why we believe that there is an opportunity to make some improvements in this area. We also think that it is possible to strengthen the tenants further, for example. came with some money to strengthen the rent boards. One could ensure more impartiality; I know the Danish People's Party was very concerned about this, that is to say to have some sort of independent body, so that we get more common thread, more consistency, more continuity in the way in which these disputes are settled between municipalities. After all, we think we could look at all this, and it was all on the table during the negotiations. As you know, we were not part of the last part, but it should not stop us from trying to influence it, and if it is the case that we can help to influence it in a positive direction, I will not in any way deny that this can be wider than it seems at present. I think those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428161354	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428161359	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I think it was a very constructive rapporteur's speech and also a fine review of the process. What I just wanted to say is that when the rapporteur is so concerned that this affects the market and pricing and lending opportunities for the cooperatives, that is true. But the whole starting point was to go in to regulate it was like the entrance ticket to get into the room at all, you might say. Was there even a problem here? Yeah, everybody agreed on that. There was a challenge here, and we should have solved it. And since the prices from 2014 to 2019 had moved from DKK 13,000. per square meters to 25,000 kroner. per square metres, i.e. doubling the price, and when you looked at developments just from 2018 to 2019, the price increases were over 20%, then history will surely agree with the rapporteur and say that it affected prices. Yes, but we also came from an unrealistically high amount. The challenge here was that it had become very attractive to invest in this type of property in Denmark. That's why we're going in and doing the procedure, in other words to make it a tiny bit less attractive, so that those who come in and invest in these properties are the ones who really do it long-term to interest their money and create better housing. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428161515	Sir. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428161517	It is quite humorous to lecture me about what the entry ticket to the negotiations was, I am well aware of that. The party that was absolutely unable to see the purpose of the entrance ticket in the first place was Danish Folkeparti. It was a very, very harsh rejection of the Karen period, as the Danish People's Party argued. I believe that it was the Danish People's Party, among the parties that put it forward, that put it the hardest. I can find several quotes from the housing rapporteur. I was quite well aware of this, and that is why I also said in the introduction to my rapporteur's speech that, of course, there was a problem. There was something we had to deal with. But what was crucial was that we found out exactly what it was that had to be handled and then fix the solution after that. And that's where I'm gonna have to give Mr. Kevin. Lars Boje Mathiesen is right that we could not get an answer to how many short-term real estate deals there had actually been. The Minister could not answer that question. We asked that several times. There were also other things that we did not get the necessary answers to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428161624	Here you go, sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428161629	But what we could at least see was 'the stinging vessels', and the rapporteur also said 'the stinging vessels'. The stories were out there, and they were about real people who had been squeezed out of their homes by bandits in suits. What we could also see was that Copenhagen, like many other capitals in Europe, had become very, very attractive in relation to housing investment, and that is what was at the heart of the problem. Then, of course, it is true that there were various tools to deal with it: waiting period, green proposals, etc. And the deal has ended where it has ended. But it's more when we look forward, because, yes, this will affect prices, but we also come from an unrealistic, very high level.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428161710	Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Mona Juul. Here you go. Jens Rohde Arah, I'm allowed to answer, right?). Of course. I'll give you a few minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428161716	I can also refer to what I said myself because I was actually the last to speak in the last debate where we were all sitting: I say that it simply cannot be right for this to fall to the ground. Because we're relatively close, and we should be able to negotiate this home. That is what I said, and I even commended the Minister for the negotiations. Well, I hadn't imagined in my wildest imagination that the next day we had seen that they had been thrown on the floor I just didn't. I just didn't see it coming. I was called by colleagues who asked me: Have you made an agreement with the government, because there is a doorstep? No, we were ready to negotiate further.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428161817	I regret that the rapporteur was not just given the floor, but he was given almost double speaking time here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428161827	On the other hand, I shall be very brief. I just want to confirm the rapporteur in exactly the course that has been told here. There is only one thing I just have to correct, and it is that there were others other than the Danish People's Party who were very precise about the fact that the Karen period does not belong exactly in this agreement and I am standing right here. It's just like that, so it's said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428161847	Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428161849	Yes, I can confirm that. But now the Conservative People's Party also ended up outside the contract circle, which is why it is natural that the interest here should focus on the Danish People's Party. Then I should just be sorry to the President, but it is because it is actually difficult when you talk to people to see the President at the same time and to see the clock. That's what gives a bit of a challenge, because when you give a microphone to a politician and not least me, it's used to talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428161924	I'll keep you on a leash. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428161929	Thank you. When I take the floor, it is because I think that the statement that came after the negotiations, in which Mr. Jens Rohde and Radical Left as the main villains and the backers of all this was unfair, and that was not fair. So I think it is reasonable, when we stand in this Chamber, to say that, at least on behalf of myself and the New Citizens' Party, that this is not the view we have had, neither of Mr. Jens Rohde or the Radical Left in this case. You have, if any, sought consensus on a broad agreement, and I think that should also be recognised down here in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428162005	Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428162006	I hope not, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen expects me to oppose him here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428162016	Thank you. That was the last brief comment to be made on this rapporteur. Then I would like to welcome Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428162028	Thank you, and thank you for the floor. I have been looking forward very much to discussing this proposal today. Of course, in SF we would have liked to abolish completely the infamous § 5 paragraph. Two if we could have done it. But with that said, I am glad that today we can deal with a number of legislative proposals that put a very big stick in the wheel of the capital funds that are chasing tenants on the run from the cities. I am particularly sensitive to the fact that we are now putting an end to the greedy practice of replacing a kitchen and a bath and then raising the rent to quadruple. This kind of greed has resulted in people with ordinary incomes no longer being able to afford to live in the big cities. When we saw how foreign capital funds such as Blackstone ate their way into the Danish housing market at the expense of unspoken tenants, we just couldn't stand by passively. It has been important for the SF to put an end to the cynical speculation on housing, which is why I welcome the fact that we, together with the parties to the agreement, can now take a step towards securing the rights of tenants. I think it is fundamentally important for all of us to be able to live where we want to live, and that applies regardless of whether you rent or own your home. With the agreement here, we ensure that the renovations that are being carried out will no longer cost the tenants disproportionately, and at the same time we ensure that this is done in a climate-friendly manner. It's a sensible green and red solution right after our head. I would therefore also like to thank both the Minister and the other parties to the agreement for taking an important step on the road to better rights for the country's tenants. With all the good things said, the agreement is also a compromise, and we also have a few questions for the committee procedure, which we think we can get through there: for example, whether the basis of comparison for rents can be untested, but also the question of what we can do in relation to already agreed rent increases. However, as I said, we in the SF welcome both the agreement and the prospect of arranged conditions in the rental area. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428162303	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. There are no brief comments. I would then like to welcome Rosa Lund, who will be presenting her speech as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428162312	Thank you. Like Mrs Kirsten Normann, I have also been looking forward to today. It is a little special that we cannot stand on the platform, but should have the debate in this way, I think, but that is the way it is. Today is a very good day for the people in Denmark who live for rent, because today we are taking the first step on the road to ending up with capital funds such as the United Kingdom. Blackstones ravaged our housing market. Yeah, I call it a ravage, 'cause I think it is. Back in November 2018, we were contacted in Enhedslisten by a citizen in Copenhagen who experienced harassment from a capital fund. With very short notice she was offered money to move out of her apartment, which she had lived for over 40 years. Her neighbors in the stairwell experienced exactly the same thing. They also saw that this fund, which was their new landlord, would not pay for cleaning up the hallway, and when they called the rental company, they couldn't get to anyone, either a janitor or an administrator or anyone. In general, the tenants in the building saw that the building was actually damaged, i.e. it was not renovated. And it soon dawned on me that this was not a single case, and along with a handful of others I actually walked around the whole of Copenhagen knocking on doors in all the properties that Blackstone bought in Copenhagen, and everywhere they could tell the same stories. It was about things that were moved from the attic and put on the street, offering money to remove the apartment, rent increases for all newcomers in the building, twice as expensive electricity bills and an administrator and a caretaker you couldn't get in touch with. There has been one purpose in doing this harassment of the tenants, namely to get them to move so you could raise the rent. But today we are doing something about it, today we are doing it illegally for the landlords to try to bribe tenants to move from their homes, and we are strengthening the rental boards, so that the tenants have far better rights and so that the harassment of landlords can be more severe. We're not gonna get to the end of this with these three bills, but we're gonna get really, really far. In Enhedslisten we think it is a good thing that we have mixed cities where also people with an ordinary income can afford to live. But it is also capital funds that Blackstone is destroying, and they are far from the only ones. They destroy it by taking advantage of the speculation clause contained in the Housing Regulation Act, namely § 5 para. 2, that is, the one we are discussing today. It allows them to raise the rent dramatically with very small and superficial renovations. On my tour around Copenhagen I heard stories from Vesterbro about how the garbage room was moved, and then it was called a renovation. At Nørrebro they could tell about well-functioning kitchens, which were torn down and replaced by some new ones, and then it was used as an excuse to raise the rent. Even worse it was to hear about bathrooms where you just painted over the mold, and then you had made a renovation, and then you could raise the rent. I don't think that's okay, but we're gonna do something about that today. Finally, I would like to say that we are standing here with three legislative proposals to curb the over-exploitation of capital funds in our rental market, and I would like to take this opportunity today in Parliament to thank all the many tenants who have come forward and have told their story about their experiences with this, because otherwise I do not think we would have got here. I hope it will come as no surprise that we would have gone much further in the Enhedslisten. In fact, we would have preferred this section 5 to be abolished. 2 and that we also ensured that capital funds pay taxes in Denmark and that we ensured that there is a full transparency of ownership of capital funds. We might have thought of that, but we didn't get that far. However, we managed to secure a few other things: a period of waiting, which curbs the pursuit of quick profits by landlords, so that we scare away those who are not interested in our city and in our urban development and who are not interested in creating a city that is for all of us. We have secured the rights of tenants, and we have ensured that energy renovation is now required when renovations are carried out. So we also have a greener town in sight. We appreciate that in the Enhedslisten. I would also like to thank those parties who wanted to join. And not least, I would like to thank the tenants who have fought for their right to a decent accommodation. We would also have liked there to be some other things in this bill. In fact, we think that the legislative changes we are making today should include all rental agreements concluded by modernisation, so that far more tenants could make use of the rights we are now granting today, but we could not get that far. Another thing that is very close to our hearts, and which I hope we can continue to work on, is the question of what to do when you switch apartments. Today, unfortunately, there are a lot of people who are afraid to exchange their apartment. There could be, for example: be about your children leaving home and you want to live in something smaller, while another family may have another one on the way and therefore want to live in something bigger. Those people are actually afraid to trade their apartments, because they are afraid that it is being used to make a huge renovation, and then the rent rises, and then they can't afford to live there anyway. I hope we can look into that in the Housing Committee. For me, these three legislative proposals are the beginning of a new era when the bill for housing policy is no longer parked with the tenants, but are parked with those who can actually afford to pay for it, and I am very happy about that. It is the end of exorcism on the tenants, and it must be possible for everyone, regardless of income, to live in our cities. For me and for Enhedslisten it is quite clear that the right to have a home you can afford to live in is above the right to profit, and I think we are taking a very big step towards that today. I am very pleased about that, and the Enhedslisten can of course support these three legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428162943	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. I would like to agree with the rapporteur that it is very strange to speak when you have your colleagues behind it, but we can talk about this in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428162959	I don't want to see the housing market that Enhedslisten will establish, because that means that we will have the House at Christianshavn 2.0 in a few years. If there are no private individuals who can have their investments remunerated when they, for example, do so. If there is urban renewal, there is no one to do it, and then we will be back on time before 1996. Therefore, I would like to ask Enhedslisten if it is Enhedslisten's dream that we will return to the time before 1996 • back to time with a lot of slums, with a toilet in the yard, with ready-to-use buildings in Copenhagen. It has not been many years since, in a historical perspective, that we were in the situation where there was a great deal that was not renovated, nor was it torn down, because it was not worthwhile either. Well, we're the ones who remember happened through history, and I don't want to go back to Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428163100	Rosa Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428163102	Well, the time before 1996 is definitely not something that Enhedslisten wants. At the time we were not as big as we are today, so that is not the time we would like to go back to the housing market either. In fact, I do not agree with the premise that this is where we will go unless there is Section 5 (1). 2 for there is Section 5, paragraph 2. 1. So you can easily do renovations... you can easily do that... it just has to be on account of the tenants. And I think that the consideration for a city where we can all afford to live is quite high. In fact, I think we should look at how general housing companies will have better opportunities to buy private housing. They do, of course, today, but I do believe that these opportunities need to be improved, because I think that a strong general housing sector is much preferable to a strong private sector. But I don't think it's gonna come as a surprise.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428163149	Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428163151	Well, I very much agree with that. Let us strengthen the general sector, and let us tell the City of Copenhagen that they should not demand that the apartments be over 90 m2 in 75%. of the cases, because it makes you really find it difficult to find something that you can afford to live in. So the City of Copenhagen has a huge responsibility here. We all have political responsibility for not having enough housing built, and so on. After all, we agree that we want mixed housing, mixed living conditions in our city. We just need to be careful to remove the incentives in the private sector to ensure that urban renewal is actually carried out, because neither the climate nor the people who are going to live in those buildings benefit from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428163237	Rosa Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428163239	Well, the incentive in the legislative proposals we are talking about today is precisely climate and energy renovations. So I am actually thinking that the climate is quite good from the proposals we are discussing today. That's one thing. The second thing is that we can quickly agree that the City of Copenhagen also has a great responsibility for the housing market in Copenhagen. I'm afraid that's not something we can solve right now. But I am glad to hear that the Radical Left would like to take part in looking at how we get more general housing, just as I am pleased that the Radical Left agrees with the Enhedslisten that the ghetto package, which has been made as a form of solution in relation to the general housing in Copenhagen and the rest of Denmark, does not really last. So I'm glad we're all together this far.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428163323	There is a brief comment from Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428163326	Every time we talk about the City of Copenhagen, the Enhedslisten certainly cannot escape any of the responsibility, because I believe that the Enhedslisten there holds more than a fifth of the votes in Copenhagen, which you get in municipal elections. So everything that is wrong in the City of Copenhagen can be largely attributed to Enhedslisten. If you play with covert cards in this debate, no one gets smarter, so I'd like to ask Enhedslisten to confirm that Enhedslisten doesn't want a private rental market at all, that is, that Enhedslisten wants to abolish the private rental market in favour of it all being general housing or maybe even being municipal, or whatever else you can imagine, but at least not private rentals it thinks Enhedslisten should be abolished. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428163413	Rosa Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428163415	I do not know whether we think it should be abolished altogether, but Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is quite right that we would like the weighting to be different, and I think it is so nice that a former housing minister who has helped to make a ghetto package that has thrown people out of their homes is now standing here talking about private ownership. But Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is absolutely right that we would like the weighting to be different. More general housing is needed, because the private rental market has not solved the problem in the housing market; on the contrary, it has only created major problems and that is why we are doing the intervention that we are doing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428163457	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428163459	It was almost as honest as the last time I asked the Housing Rapporteur's predecessor in the Enhedslisten, for at the time it was Mr. Lars Dohn, he was able to confirm that no private rental at all was wanted in the Enhedslisten. And I still think we're there, and if you don't understand that Enhedslisten basically wants to abolish all private rentals, then you really don't understand the motivation that Enhedslisten also with this bill will make it difficult to be a private landlord in Denmark. It is because they simply want to abolish this form of housing. Anyone who finds their needs covered in the private housing rental should know that it is something that Enhedslisten really wants to abolish.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428163538	Rosa Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428163543	Well, that's always interesting to hear, sir. Ole Birk Olesen presents Enhedslisten's policy. In fact, this is something I enjoy very much and which often happens in this Chamber. However, I would like to say that it is of course about the weighting being different, and for me the starting point is not to make life miserable for anyone. For me, the starting point is to ensure that the tenants in Copenhagen and the rest of Denmark have proper conditions and proper rights, and that housing is available for everyone regardless of income. And then it may be that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen and the Liberal Alliance have a different starting point, but I'm not here to present your policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428163621	Thank you. And then there is a brief comment from Mrs Heidi Bank from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428163627	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Now it is not such a big secret that we stand somewhere other than the Enhedslisten. Nevertheless, I would like to thank the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten for her perhaps not so direct, but a little more indirectly, what may have been missing while the negotiations were going on when talking to the media. This is the part where you can't throw out a tenant and then make Section 5. 2-renovations. That has never been the case, and it is not legal when it is done. There have been cases in which some have used methods which they themselves have admitted have not been in order, in relation to paying some tenants to leave. And that's just something we all, I think, can distance ourselves from. At the same time, however, the fact that one has been able to pay, that is to say for the landlords who have done it in a proper way, has created flexibility, and there are also tenants who have been happy that in some situations where it fits into the situation one was now in life one could actually get a payment, and perhaps it has been possible to have a bag of money with oneself to move on to something else. And that is why I would like to hear Enhedslisten's housing rapporteur: why do you not want the flexibility in that if a tenant gets proper advice Thank you!), a proper legal advice, a proper financial advice, so can you do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428163748	Mrs. Rosa Lund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428163751	Thank you. Well, what we want in the Enhedslisten right on that point is actually quite exactly what this bill says, namely that you should not be able to offer people money to move. What we have seen, especially in Copenhagen, but also in Aarhus, is that people have been harassed out, and there we are just in the situation that we are facing such long waiting times in the House Rental Board and so talented lawyers and so much capital that it has not been able to pay for the tenants, especially because they have not been able to get hold of an administrator or a caretaker or anyone else they could contact in this situation. There we are in the situation where it has just been shown that it is completely untenable what exists in our private rental market in Copenhagen and, as a general rule, in the rental market. So I think it is much more fair to have a system in which, for example, we have a system. has waiting lists that you sign up on than that you have a system where you can pay people out to only raise the rent. I think we're gonna get a crooked town of that. And that's what makes this bill up to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428163854	Thank you. Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428163858	Thank you. Now it is not the case that there will be waiting lists that we can decide on. It's private rentals, so it's the owners of those who control who can get a rental there. So, compared to this whole thing about sticking people's eyes in the eye and saying that all of a sudden there are homes for everyone and you can live where we are: it can't be right when you stand and say it to the citizens. That is simply not true. If you want to ensure that, you have to go another way, and that is a different composition of the housing stock. And that's why I'm interested in hearing, compared to when we put percentages on. I understand that Enhedslisten wants a mixed housing stock. There's nothing new about that. But what is the weighting? How large a share should be common? How big a share must be private? Thank you! ) Where should owner-occupied dwellings be located?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428163942	I would like to ask for a little more time to be allowed to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428163947	Well, I didn't stand here and tell you I have to run all kinds of waiting lists. I'm just saying that I see the waiting list system as more fair than the system called money under the table. I think that is quite obvious. Well, that's a lot more fair, I think. I think it's more fair that as a private landlord you make a waiting list for your property than that you offer people money to move only to raise the rent and thus make a profit. And I do not believe that we are creating a more mixed town by only having rentals that are so expensive that you cannot afford to live there and that people with ordinary incomes, primary school teachers and police officers cannot afford to live there Thank you!). That's not how we create a mixed town. I simply do not believe that. We create a mixed city by ensuring that everyone can afford to live to rent.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428164031	Thank you. The next person I would like to give the floor to is Mr Spencer. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428164039	Now I know that Enhedslisten does not want such a massive increase in congestion in cities. If you want to transform some of the existing housing stock from private property into general housing, state property, or whatever you think it should be, how is this going to happen? In other words, if you want a different weighting, it is within the existing housing stock that there is. Should private individuals then be forced to sell to the public? Or do they have to be pressured by the public, for example. By increasing taxes, if you don't want to sell your property? Or should it just go on a voluntary basis? And if the private landlords don't want to sell to the state, what do you do? I guess we're talking about existing homes, because I'm not assuming that Enhedslisten will build much more closely, for example. in here in Copenhagen, whatever it is at this time. So how do you want to change this weighting in the housing stock?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428164131	Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428164132	Well, there are several ways to do that. The first thing we will do, of course, is to stop the ghetto package, which right now means that general housing companies must sell off housing. Well, we just think it's going the wrong way. Now you're selling off ordinary homes to private people. We think that is the wrong way to go. So that would be the first thing we would do. Then I think you should look at, for example. Some of the business leases in Copenhagen, which are empty, can turn into housing • look at how we can ensure that, for example, they could. Good. That's also one way to do it. Moreover, I think that it should be ensured that the municipality can also designate cooperatives and owner-occupied housing, and not just public housing. So I think there's a lot of ways to do that. These were three suggestions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428164217	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428164219	It can be said, with all due respect, that we are not talking about so many homes in the ghetto area. But do I understand it right that it is Enhedslisten's policy that commercial property, which is empty, should be converted into housing and thus a massive congestion of the housing stock? Because that's what you do if you turn property into housing rather than green areas, but build high houses and move people in there; it's an increased sealing of the city centre. Do I have to understand that this is what you see as one of the objectives? Do we not have a requirement that those who already have private rentals should hand it over to the state so that they can continue to be there in this way? And must it be so that there are still private people who are based on some of those rental properties?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428164304	Rosa Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428164305	But these are already existing buildings here, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, whom I think one should look at if one could turn into housing, instead of it being buildings that just stand as empty commercial rentals. We have a huge housing problem, especially in Copenhagen, which is where I live and where I am elected, and that is why what I know about a huge housing problem. Copenhagen is a huge city of study, and there must be room for you to live where you read; at least we think so in the Enhedslisten. So I don't agree that this is about sealing. I think this is about what kind of city we want. And right now there are just some buildings standing empty that could be used for housing. I think it's just one way or another to kill two birds with one stone.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428164347	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There are no more brief comments. And then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Mona Juul of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428164355	Thank you for the floor. With this form of debate, it's finally an advantage to sit in the back row, I promise you I'll see you all. As a housing rapporteur, I am among others. preoccupied with sustainable construction, architecture, housing tax and housing for socially vulnerable people, but much of my time has so far gone with what has ended up being today's bill to change section 5 of the Housing Regulation Act. 2. In fact, it was the Social Democratic and Radical Left that introduced Article 5 (5) in 1996. 2 because the housing market needed renovation to such an extent. In the 1990s alone, we spent as much as 55 billion. tax dollars on renovating old homes. There was a need for the private market to help, and an incentive was created to create urban renewal, and it has to be said that § 5 (3) (a) (i) (ii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v)) (v) (iv) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (vi) (vi) (vi)) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi)) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi)) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) We're not going back to the 1990s, and we're not going back to spending billions of public dollars on housing renovations. I can at least think of a lot of other things to spend tax dollars on. That is why I have been sceptical from the outset of amendments to Section 5, paragraph 5. 2 changes which will have inevitable consequences for renovations, including green ones, for pension companies, that is, for all our pension savings, and for the cooperatives, which can look forward with regulation to major losses. It is simply not fair, nor is it acceptable, indeed it is completely in the fence. For what is the government really going to achieve with such a profound change of law and with such terrible consequences? What is it that the law already in force cannot ensure? And why has it been impossible to talk about the task before this hopeless solution was defined? I find it difficult to conclude much more than that there is apparently so much more political punch in new bans and new regulations than to tackle the root of the nettle and get it fixed. For Conservatives will not accept landlords who use unfine methods, so they can raise the rent and score the cash at the expense of the tenants. It's a mess, and it needs to be stopped. And we could have made an agreement on that, for example. strengthens existing legislation and the rent board, an agreement that imposes a tax on the sale of property after a shorter period of time, because that was what the text of the agreement ended up being about, i.e. short-term investments, and an agreement that focuses on why there are no foster homes that people can afford to live in, among other things. in Copenhagen or perhaps especially in Copenhagen. But that is not what has been agreed. Now it is a question of putting out a fire by starting a new one and of paralysing a well-functioning renovation law by significantly reducing the return on investors; of making legislation for the whole country, although the problem is really in Copenhagen. For which investor will shoot money into something if he has to wait at least 5 years to start getting a return? During the process, however, the Minister of Housing has acknowledged that the energy requirements will affect the value of the units. The fact that the other interventions can avoid doing the same is for certain reasons that I managed to deceive the parties behind the agreement, among others. By guaranteeing a freezing of the valuers' valuations, of course, no banks are jumping on that. Instead, Article 5 (1) is to be regarded as meaning that Article 5 (1) is to be interpreted as meaning that Article 5 (1) is to be interpreted as meaning that Article 5 (1) is So that way I can congratulate Mrs Rosa Lund. The Conservative People's Party therefore cannot in any way support the overall consequences of these legislative proposals. I can only regret the many good landlords who are now going to seek other investments, regret the many good tenants who are not renovating their old rentals, and complain about the many good craftsmen who are now going to lose their jobs in fact so many that perhaps more than 1,000 will lose their jobs in the building and construction sector alone and complain about the many good cohabitants who have already reduced the value of their accommodation on the sole basis of the expectation that the bill will be adopted and regret the fact that it is now at least 2-3 years before there is even the slightest hope that the properties will have their energy label lifted. I very much hope that I am wrong and that the market mechanisms are not dictated as expected for mysterious reasons here. But for the time being, there is little evidence of this. Unfortunately, the markets reacted quickly back in January when the agreement was made. Let me conclude by saying that it is a pity that so unsightly a political process should also be topped by throwing the matter into the Chamber at such short notice and at a time when we have our heads buried in relief packages and reopening; at a time when the economic prospect is already coal black. I fully understand the need for clarification, especially in relation to the cooperative housing, but I do not understand that, in the midst of the biggest economic crisis since the 1930s, we need to legalise Section 5 paragraph 5. 2. We should make every effort to resolve the crisis and certainly not spend time on the bill, which will at best give a massive loss of value to an already hard hit real estate industry • a loss that will probably feel extra hard in those parts of the country where we find the many small, family-owned real estate companies. I would prefer that the Minister had withdrawn the bill or had at least postponed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428164913	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henrik Møller of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428164918	Well, it's just again compared to ABF, which has done a survey among its members. During the period November 2019 and until the end of April, they have examined what it was like in relation to the assessments, i.e. whether they had fallen or not. And that's 80 percent. of those polled that they have received a higher rating • 60%. says an increase of up to 5%, and barely 20%. has experienced increases of between 6% and 10%. That does not indicate the black prospects outlined by the rapporteur here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428164959	Mrs. Mona Juul, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428165001	Thank you. I also discovered today, just by chance today, that the cooperative housing associations came up with this analysis, which is by no means confirmed by anyone else on the market. I have to say that throughout the process the cooperative housing associations, at least the interbranch organisation, have been in a different place from the banks, the real estate market and the investors. I have to say that I am therefore listening to the fact that market mechanisms are going to work. And the percentages that are already in place in relation to the losses we see in the real estate market are enormous. Maybe as much as 30-35 per cent. We'll drop the corona on top of it. This is fucking serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428165041	Then we have a brief comment from Mr. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428165046	I've seen it, too. A.B.F.'s 50 percent. of the cohabitants. And there is still a party relationship between the President and Mr. President. Henrik Møller and something like that. We can see that. It's not illegal, but maybe they have some kind of community of interests. Peace be to it. What I find interesting is that the value assessments are mentioned here. Can Mrs Juul confirm that they have just been criticized by the Left, that is to say that they do not hold up and that they are largely too high and therefore should not be looked at? And these are the value assessments that Mr. Henrik Møller is referring to here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428165134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428165137	Well, there is no doubt that the value assessments, like the Karen period, have been a central issue in our negotiations, which I was fortunate enough to participate in far along the way, because of course I would very much like to be involved in making an agreement in relation to the shortcomings that are on the market. But valuations cannot be frozen. We cannot predetermine what a valuer's assessment will be like. Even the Danish People's Party says today that it is certainly on paper that we can do so. But in real life it is not going to happen in my best judgment, and I am not quite alone in having that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428165221	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech and thank you for your comments to Mrs Juul. There are no further brief comments, so I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428165232	Thank you. I think it's important to remember in this case that this isn't the whole housing market. And when it comes to putting it forward as if this is crucial to whether we have a well-functioning housing market and whether we can enter the housing market and everything else, we must be careful not to climb to the top of the roof, because that matter simply does not hold up. It's about section 5, section 5. 2. Then we should remember that this is also about a problem that was with a manager who was hired by foreign asset managers, and these are the ones who had some methods that I do not think anyone liked. That was the problem, and that is what you want to get rid of. And I would have liked to have been a part of that if that was the problem. Then we should have found solutions to strengthen some authorities so that we could come after those people who did not behave properly. But the whole idea that foreign asset managers want to make these short-term investments just doesn't hold up in my optics. And that's why I asked how many examples we have of these foreign asset managers who are buying up, doing things in relation to § 5 paragraph. 2 and so want to sell fast again. And you couldn't give a single example... and I asked! For the fact is that the vast majority who invest in the housing market do not make short-term investments in terms of 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7 years. The cost of these trades is so great that it's not the way you think. But instead of resolving the problems that there were with some people who might not behave properly, they drove out the big guns and made changes that then hit the cohabitants. And what the hell have they done now? Why do they have to be involved in some ideological struggle for some foreign asset managers? What have they done? And we haven't been able to get any answer to anything but: Ah, they may not lose quite so much, and they just have to put up with that, because it's the best. That is simply not fair. It is not reasonable for some others to have to pay the bill to try to fix a problem. It is simply not fair. So we are in a situation where it is said that there are problems on the Copenhagen housing market, but these problems have arisen because of a misguided housing policy over very, very many years, where you may not have built cheap enough, where you have not built enough, and where you have had a requirement that the apartments should be large, and then they will also be expensive. And then people haven't been able to get into the market. However, in relation to saying that the sole responsibility of private landlords is the responsibility of the private landlords, I would say that there is a part of the responsibility, especially on the City of Copenhagen, which has made decisions on how to build. And that could be one of the reasons why the problem is bigger in Copenhagen than it is elsewhere. When we look at the things that we are going to do, I think that it is simply irresponsible in a situation that we are facing now with unemployment which is rising a lot, that we are saying that we will do what it takes to keep our hands on the business world and that we bring aid packages, but God help me if we do not go to the Chamber and put forward a proposal that harms employment, which takes people out of the workforce. And that is where we need to get closer to what that number is, because those who vote for these things must also take responsibility for it, if that is how we send people into the unemployment line with this. That is why, in relation to further work, I would like to have an answer to what is being assessed here in terms of employment. Does it matter and is it positive or negative? I fear it will be negative. And I think it is absolutely crucial to put it in place completely so that people, when they press one button or the other button, take responsibility for what they are doing. Then we can have a general debate on how large the general housing stock should be and everything else. Basically, I'm not a huge fan of general housing, and I'm not, because it's a form of housing where people want a Mercedes, but only want to pay for a Fiat, and where others have to pay the bill for you to live somewhere, and I don't think that's fair. And the arrangement that it's just about how long you've been on a list, I don't like it either. In Aarhus we have doctors and others with incredibly high wages who, because they have been on a list for a long time, can get the best general housing located in the best area in Aarhus, and then they can sit in a housing for a rent that is far, far below market value. And they could easily afford to buy a big house if they wanted to, but why would they, when they've been on a waiting list? So there's nothing socially fair about public housing on the contrary, it's a lottery ticket that's about how long you've been on a list and not about what your needs are. You invest in bricks instead of people, and I don't like that either. So that's why I'm not a huge fan of general housing. But that is another matter. Now it became a broad deal that I can understand that Enhedslisten and SF are incredibly happy about. And then you have entered into it with the Social Democratic Party... the great and the small Social Democrats. And then that's fine. Then you could call it a broad deal. But I find it difficult to see that New Citizens should press yes and vote for an agreement that the Socialists salute in that way and believe is the best agreement that has long been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428165937	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428165944	Thank you. Back in the 1990s, the then Social Democratic government acknowledged that the rent regulation in Denmark was too hard and led to a private rental house mass, which was too sluggish and worn out and poor, because the rent regulation was too hard. The rent regulation did not allow private owners of the private rental sector to invest what was needed to obtain decent housing and to obtain an increased rent from the tenants afterwards. And that's why you had this phenomenon in Copenhagen, where Copenhagen, although it was an attractive place to live, and although many would like to live here, also had incredibly many private rentals that were not worth living in for modern people. You might be satisfied with this kind of accommodation if you lived in the 1930s and 1920s, and also if you were a young student in Copenhagen and just wanted a very, very cheap accommodation, and if you were satisfied that you didn't have a bath and didn't have central heating. But for ordinary people it was not housing that was worth collecting and worth living in. So the then Social Democratic government decides: we have to do something about this; we have to allow private landlords to invest the millions that will have to spend billions to get a modern private rental house in Copenhagen. And then they can finance that by raising the rent in return so that it covers their investment costs and gives them a return afterwards. For this reason, Section 5 (3) was added. 2 under a social democratic government. The Enhedslisten voted in favour of § 5 (1). 2 then. This has apparently been regretted later because it has been discovered that there are voters who claim that it is not necessary at all. It's two already worked. We now have a Copenhagen with housing that corresponds to the standard that can be expected of an international city by 2020, and this is thanks to all the residential renovations that have taken place on private initiative. Some of this is also due to the fact that, before the adoption of Paragraph 5, paragraph 5, paragraph 5, of the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty on Because that's the alternative. If you prohibit a business from renting out modern private homes, you will have to bring taxpayers' money and have the homes renovated to a level that you would like to have. And I am quite sure that if this amendment of the law that we are now discussing leads to a difficult situation, and this suggests a lot to keep the private rental property at a level in the coming years, then the reddest parties in the Folketing will be ready with the claim: there you can see; that kind of thing the private people can't promise at all; we will have to have taxpayers' money in it again. And then all kinds of people, other than those who live in the houses and those who own the houses, will have to pay it again. I think it was Mrs Mona Juul who said that 55 billion tax dollars had been spent in the 1990s to renew private homes in Denmark. That is an extremely large amount, and that is what we are risking again, namely that it is Mr. Jensen in Ringkøbing, sir. Sørensen in Ringsted and Mrs Petersen in Roskilde, who has to pay for the fact that the people living in private rentals inside Copenhagen can have a modern accommodation as private rentals disappear in Copenhagen as a result of the law we adopt here. The government itself estimates that the renovation of private rental homes will fall to a level of one third of what is happening today. This means that two thirds of the renovation will not take place. So we're gonna have a backlog of this, and the parties involved in this agreement haven't even dealt with what we're gonna do at that time when we're gonna get those homes up to standard. For the housing we have today will not be of the correct standard, which will be demanded for 10 and 20 and 30 years. Today, we may think that these are some fantastic homes we have today. At least they are much better than the homes were 20-30 years ago. But when we reach 20-30 years into the future, there will have been changes and improvements in the housing stock again. Then there will be a large part of the private rentals that have not followed. And then people will say: it is also too bad that private rental accommodation does not meet the standard we expect. Then it is up to the majority who decide today to make the law to find out what they are going to do. Will they repeat the fine from the 1990s and change §5 paragraph. 2, again, so that it is worthwhile to put private investment funds into private rental homes, as the Social Democrats were forced to do when Poul Nyrup Rasmussen was Prime Minister and Mogens Lykketoft was Finance Minister? Or are they going to return to this scheme of taxpayers pouring billions and billions of dollars into the renovation of private homes? All of this is done with the consequence that the value of owning a private rental house decreases and, as a result, the value of the units in Denmark also decreases. It is given by the fact that the cooperative housing law states that the cooperatives must be priced as if they were a private rental house. This means that when private rentals fall in value, there is also a lower price for the cooperative housing units than today. That could have been avoided. In the blue parties and with the Radicals we sat one evening and agreed that we would like to contribute to the amendment of the cooperative housing law, so that the price of a cohabitation was not so closely linked to the price of a rental home, so that one could allow the price of a cohabitation to be higher than the price of a rental home. This would mean that if rental accommodation prices were to fall, cohabitation prices would not have to fall accordingly, because it would not be in the law for them to do so. The red majority and the Danish People's Party have not wanted to do that here in this legislation. For some reason, it is extremely important that when rentals fall in value, the units should also fall in value. You could have just changed the co-habitation law, set the co-habitation units more free compared to the price, but you didn't want to do that. We have not heard any reasons why they did not want to do so. You just don't want to do that. The only reason there can be must be that you don't care that those who live in cohabitants lose money on the value of their cohabitation because of this intervention. Otherwise, you could've just changed it. I don't understand why you don't care. I think it is a pity for those who in recent years have bought a cohabitation in the expectation that prices on the cohabitation market would probably develop in about the same way as prices on the owner housing market, i.e.. with an arrow up. They are now in a situation where, because of this intervention, in some cases it has gone exactly the opposite. The price they have paid for a cohabitation if they have to sell tomorrow they will not be able to get back home as a result of this intervention by the red parties and the Danish People's Party. And this is all because they have some reluctance to separate the value of the cooperative housing from the price of rentals. It would be nice if someone would stand up now, where there is an opportunity to ask me questions, and then use the opportunity to say: The reason why we do not want to free the cohabitants from it is something other than that we do not care about the cohabitants. I have asked here in the course of the debate why this has not been done, and we have not received an answer to that question: why have the cooperative housing units not been detached from the housing houses so that they do not have to be affected by this intervention? But you've still lost the opportunity. The Minister also has the opportunity to speak on his legislative proposals. So I think you should do that. To make a long story short: we are voting against all these terrible laws.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428170931	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. Then I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428170938	I would first like to thank you for the debate. We have come a long way with who owns housing, what we think about co-locations, the House at Christianshavn and many other good themes. The government has as its ambition that everyone should be able to live in our largest cities, whether you drive a bus or whether you are the director. In recent years we have seen how a new group of very aggressive residential speculators has gone on buying in private rentals in our cities, not least in Copenhagen. With a relatively limited investment, a very large return has been achieved, but unfortunately also using methods that we do not normally know at all in Denmark: owners have told about harassment, threats, money under the table and afterwards about doubling, triple the rent. Of course, we should not accept this, and that is why, with these laws, the government will take action against landlords who cannot behave properly and secure the cheapest rental homes in our big cities. The legislative proposals are the implementation of the political agreement of 30 January on initiatives against short-term investment in private rental housing concluded between the Government, the SF, the DF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. First of all, we propose a stop to speculators, which consists of a waiting period, after which rents cannot be rented with rents under Section 5 of the Housing Regulation Act. 2, for 5 years after the acquisition of the property. In order to avoid circumvention, the Karen period is activated by any change of control of 50 per cent. or more of the controls change hands. The proposal is not intended to affect leases which, even before the entry into force of the law, have been thoroughly modernised. These are exempted from the waiting period. In order to avoid losses for shareholders, cooperative housing associations established prior to the entry into force of the law shall be exempted. In this way, the cooperative associations in the sale of their properties will not be covered by the Karen period. The subsequent sale of these properties will also not be covered. At the same time, in order to counteract the capitalisation of this derogation for increased disposal of the properties of cooperative housing associations, it is proposed that the statutory requirement of a four-fifths majority majority vote in order to adopt proposals for the sale of real estate or for the dissolution of the association. In addition, as part of the green transition, it is suggested that if the property's energy label is raised three levels or improved by at least 3,000 DKK. per m 2 It is hoped that long-term investors will see the advantage of contributing to the green transition. Secondly, we propose to strengthen the green energy requirement. In concrete terms, this means that the energy requirement for the property, where the landlord wishes to make use of the favourable rentals according to § 5 (a) above. 2, increased from D to C. In addition, it is proposed that the alternative energy requirement which can be met today by the tenant performing energy improvements of DKr 430. per m 2 A scheme has thus been proposed which includes the possibilities to meet the energy requirement in § 5 (1). 2, so that buildings which find it difficult to obtain an energy framework C are also provided with an alternative way of achieving the more stringent energy requirements. If we are to achieve the objective of a CO2 by 2030, we need to think about the green transition so that it goes across all policy areas. That is why we are doing the same in this intervention against short-term speculators. The proposed changes give the landlord a strong incentive to refurbished the oldest private rental properties, which will reduce energy consumption in the private rental building. By 2030, energy savings are expected to be in the order of 190 million. kWh. At current energy prices, this will save the tenants heat in the order of 125 million. kr. Thirdly, we propose introducing a rent brake. Under the scheme in force in Section 5 of the Housing Regulation Act. 2, the rent for radically improved leases may be set at an amount which does not substantially exceed the value of the rental. The government proposes to abolish the essential requirement, so that rent for housing under § 5 para. 2, shall no longer exceed the value of the rental. This means that the rent may not be higher than the value of the rent and thus not above the value of the rent of 10%, which is the practice in force. The essential requirement has really worked as a price spiral that has helped to drive the rent up on the thoroughly renovated and modernised dwellings to a level which in some places is quite unreasonable. The rental brake will therefore ensure that the increase in rent levels that we have seen will be dampened in the future. The government also wants to face a fight with the insecurity that many tenants naturally experience when their landlord suddenly tries to squeeze them out of their private homes • e.g. when you are offered very large amounts of money under the table. Therefore, it must be prohibited to offer tenants money in order to end the lease. At the same time, we propose tightening up the rules on comparison among leases. In this way it will be given greater weight when comparing leases which have a rental that has already been tested in a board or in a court of law. We also suggest that the tenants get a better knowledge of decisions made on rental conditions in the property, and this is done by requiring the landlord to inform the owner's organisation or tenants of decisions where the tenant is granted full or partial acceptance. In order to put an end to the modernizations which do not in fact bring about a substantial increase in the value of use, i.e. the so-called mock-modernisations, an inspection requirement is proposed. This means that in future, before radical modernizations are carried out, the rent board will have to inspect the rent board, which will have to establish that the lease has a stand which will allow a substantial increase in the value of the rent. As a general preventive measure, we propose that the current fee, which the landlord may incur when the tenant is fully supported, should be increased from DKK 2,180. for 6,000 kroner. It is estimated that this will result in a higher level of charges which will prevent speculation on non-compliance. As Minister for Housing, I have said from the outset that intervention against short-term speculators should not, of course, hit the cooperative housing market, and therefore the government wants to ensure that the proposed changes cannot have a negative impact on the share values. As already mentioned, therefore, we propose that the five-year waiting period of the speculator's stop should not apply to the conversion from cooperative housing to rental property. This applies both in the case of voluntary sale and subsequent resale, as well as in the case of sales caused by the need for cooperative housing associations, including foreclosures and subsequent resales. This frees the property of cooperative housing associations from loss of value as a result of the speculative freeze. In addition, we propose the introduction of the possibility of maintaining nominal value assessments. This will make it possible to counter the minor impact on the values of the property of the cooperative housing association as a result of the green energy requirement. Overall, the legislative proposals mean that we call about the last cheap rentals in Copenhagen and take back control of our cities. Of course, it is we who determine the development of our housing market, not foreign capital funds. At the same time, the legislative proposals will significantly strengthen the rights of tenants. We do not solve all the problems, but we are taking an important step towards more mixed cities where the bus driver, the nurse and the school teacher can also afford to live in the city where they work. I would like to thank you once again for all the comments, but of course especially for the positive ones, and I look forward to the committee reading. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428171648	Thank you to the Minister for Housing. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is for Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428171656	In the past it was the case that the cooperative housing law belonged to the Minister for Industry, but with the formation of this government the cooperative housing law came to the Minister for Housing, which means that we now have the minister responsible for the cooperative housing law. The Cooperative Housing Act states that if you make a valuer's assessment of cooperative housing, the valuer must assess the units as if they were private rentals. I mean, the cooperative housing association needs to be assessed as if it were a private rental property. That is why, now that you are reducing the value of private rentals, you are also reducing the value of cohabitation units. It is because the cooperative housing law states that they must be priced in the same way. Why has the Minister not included a proposal here in these draft legislations that the cooperative housing need not be affected by the lower rating on rental homes, so that the link between the rental price and the cooperative housing is removed from the cooperative housing law?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428171800	The Minister of Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428171802	Well, I haven't, because I basically believe that the cohabitation form should be different from the owner's housing form, and if you free the prices, as the Liberal Alliance would like it to be your policy as a party, I know that will happen. I'm actually impressed by the fact that sir... Ole Birk Olesen has been given the Left and Conservatives, who last year voted to retain the cooperative housing form, to sign off on the need to completely liberalise the pricing of co-operative housing. That's quite a feat. Sir. Carsten Kissmeyer, the then rapporteur on the Left, and Mr. Anders Johansson, the then rapporteur for the Conservatives, was very firm that we should maintain the cooperative housing, but I can now understand that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen has persuaded Left and Conservatives to change their minds. I can only say chapeau to that, so take your hat off. That's impressive.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428171847	Ole Birk Olesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428171849	Why don't we just let the cohabitants decide what kind of cohabitation they have instead of the majority of the people or the minister of housing? Well, it's not something we need to get involved in, is it? If they want a different pricing of their accommodation, why should they not be allowed to do so? If, in principle, they want to transform their cooperative housing society into an owner's association, why should they not also be allowed to do so? Well, it's theirs. This isn't real estate for the Minister of Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428171915	The Minister of Housing, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428171917	Well, I don't think so, because the cohabitation form constitutes a different form of ownership than the owner's housing form does. It is a community where I believe you have plenty of opportunities to get some general education, also in the understanding of how to run properties, how to maintain properties, and I think there are a lot of people who see a quality in that, and I see a quality in that it is an intermediate between a rental home and a owner's residence. I think we should stick to that, as most parties did before the elections... maybe with the exception of the Liberal Alliance... but now there are so new notes, I understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428171950	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428171954	Well, it's true that great things happen when New Citizens come to parliament. Then reason spreads among others. I know the Liberal Alliance has always had it, but I say it to my good colleague who has seen the light. So we're happy about that. I would like to ask you about employment, namely whether the Minister thinks that this is the right time if it turns out that this is a reduction in employment. Is this the right time to do these things if it turns out that this weakens employment in the economic situation we are in? I think that is very serious. Secondly, I have a question as to whether the Minister could just answer where the Minister got the working paper from which the bourgeois blue parties sat and worked, because it has been quoted from that. You must have gotten that in some way. So where did you get it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428172040	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428172042	Finally, I would like to say that I am not quoting from the working paper. I quote from what Mr. Ole Birk Olesen says here in the Assembly Hall, and it is, after all, legal within this framework. But I would say in relation to employment: it is true that if you stop making rent renovations that double the rent, that means, of course, that there are some craftsmen who may not have to do the renovations. But on the other hand, you can say that the people who live in those homes then have some more money to spend down in Netto, or if they want to go on a charter trip or in and watch a football game or whatever people are spending their money on. One can go in with such an industry-specific requirement and say that it is very important for us that it is precisely the construction industry that gets more money, but the rent of the tenants, which is much lower if not a 5.2-renovation, then goes to some industries that may be a little harder to measure, but which nevertheless create jobs. If you go to a football game and drink a lot of beer, some people will be hired to serve that beer stand, and I think that is just as important to think about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428172141	Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428172143	Well, that's exactly why we have to have the real number on it, because that's what you include in it. If there is an increase in the amount available to others, it is, of course, calculated in those calculations. That is why we just need to calculate what it does to total employment. For if the people have money and an amount of money they will spend on other things, they will set it off; it will be set off in it. So we will have a fait accompli and could ask: does this damage employment, or does it improve employment? That is what we can get, and that is what we want a clear answer to. Then I am not referring to what Mr. Ole Birk Olesen said. It was because the Minister for Housing was out, even a few days later, and said that what the blue parties were in the process of agreeing would also damage the cooperative housing. And then they quoted from this agreement that the blue parties were making. That is just what I am asking, i.e. whether the Minister can give an answer to where the piece of paper that has now been seen was obtained.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428172232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428172235	I mean, I have three legislative proposals today, which several rapporteurs have mentioned, has a rather far-reaching impact on a lot of relationships in our society. Some people think it's bad, and some people think it's good. But I am not here to explain what a process has been like. I think that there has been too much focus on this at all. I think that the key issue is what is being adopted here. I was allowed to read that paper, and that is how it is when many people get a paper in their hands; then it gets out into a larger circle, and at some point it comes in to me too, so I can read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428172311	Thank you. And then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428172316	Yes, many questions may be asked, but one key question concerns the short-term speculations that the Minister keeps mentioning. First, I would like to know how many short-term speculations the Minister can mention have been made over the last few years. And what exactly is it in this bill that prevents foreign capital from entering the market, i.e. foreign capital chains? I mean, I can't really find anything. The last question, and this is actually quite central, is that this is something the Minister has put a great deal of effort into in the public sector, because it concerns the fact that the FSA says: this has no impact on the cooperatives. Would the Minister not just confirm that the note from the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority states: The loan options of the association will be negatively affected by the other measures, as they will lower the value of the property. It goes on to say: Thus, the bank has not seen in isolation increased risks of bankruptcy, but since the other measures diminish the value of the property, the bank will have a greater risk in this scenario, which will reduce the bank's lending activity.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428172432	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428172434	Further down it says that it must be estimated that, apart from the other effects, the carnage period itself is not of importance...
ParlaMint-DK_20200428172446	Even members of the Bureau must keep to their speaking time! Thank you. Sir. Jens Rohde has another question after that. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428172500	What I have said about the FSA's note is what the FSA itself writes. The overall conclusion is therefore that if one considers that the Karen period does not apply at any time to properties that have been cooperative housing associations, then it is the FSA's assessment that the Karen period alone will not have an effect on mortgage lending opportunities for the cooperative bond and for the property itself. I have never claimed that the green requirements that come cannot have an impact on the cooperatives. We have said that it is important, but that we think it is relatively small. And we have said that, on the other hand, you can freeze your assessment so that it is really only the loan option and not the price that will be important. But what we have been discussing, and let us just be honest, has also been a major part of the discussion, is the carnage period, but the carnage period is not what matters. Does this mean that those who believe that co-operative housing should not be hit at all will not make green demands will not raise the energy standard to C? I think that would be a pity, because this should contribute to the 70-percent objective, just as any other legislation that has the opportunity to do so should contribute to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428172606	Here you go, sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428172608	But it's a little funny money, isn't it? Perhaps that is why the Minister has chosen to split it into three legislative proposals; that is because he then tries to create the impression that you can split things up: the carnage period in isolation, energy requirements in isolation. No, it is the overall influence that needs to be taken as a starting point, and which the Minister rejected when the banks were out saying that this is what they are starting from; there the FSA was pushed in front of them. I would just like the Minister to confirm that the Minister's own Head of Department on my question during the negotiations on why we do not get a calculation from the Ministry of the overall effects of what the Minister has put forward said to me: that is because it will not be methodologically correct, since there is no method of calculating the overall effects. So maybe the minister should be a little bit more careful about pushing the FSA in front of him and saying: what we are doing here has taken no overall effect on the co-operative housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428172707	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428172709	I do not remember the exact wording of what my department chief said, but I also remember it as if it were something on the ball street, as Mr. Jens Rohde now presents. The essence is that we are working on a DCF model. It is not we who have decided to work with it; it is the group of experts, as far as I remember, that all parties in the Folketing have decided that this is the way to settle it. And there it is not possible, as I have been told, to combine it. One may be unhappy with this, but the essence of my question is that what has been discussed a great deal, namely the waiting period, which will stop short-term speculators from making equal profits, does not matter, and I think that is central.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428172749	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Mona Juul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428172752	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. Has the Minister at any time considered solutions other than what we have ended up with, and at what point did the coaching period actually come into play, and why?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428172806	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428172807	Yes, we have considered a wide range of options, first and foremost, of course, the seven different alternatives put forward by the expert group, and also proposals that have come from various stakeholders, on how to organise it here in a way that takes into account the consideration that we would take and which was to stop short-term speculators from earning a very large amount of money by raising rents, but at the same time, of course, without hitting cooperative housing associations and without hitting pension funds to any significant extent. There have been many different assessments of how we could succeed in this. I will make a statement, as I recall, on 5 December, when I present the Karen period as an opportunity. And before that, there are, among other things. have been conversations with stakeholders who have presented something that we have then worked from within the Ministry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428172854	Mona Juul, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428172856	I would very much like to ask the Minister whether the Minister really is as happy as Enhedslisten for the market to consider that § 5 (1). 2, de facto, it's been put to death with this law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428172908	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428172910	I think that's some galvanized nonsense. There is nothing to suggest that § 5 (5). Two should have been killed with this. I think it's only the most extreme voices in this debate that say so. The fact is that the vast majority will continue to make § 5 paragraph 5. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. So I completely disagree with that. I do not believe that section 5 of this report is being stopped. 2-renovations. I think it will continue to be made, and I think most people who own property are aware of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428172949	Thank you. Mrs. Mona Juul has Jo, she has. You can't sign up like that all night long, if that's what it is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428173007	Thank you. For the sake of good order, I would like to confirm what the rapporteur of the Radicals mentions from that meeting, because it was so that we could not have the overall calculations. However, in relation to the cohabitants, it is presented as if it has no effect whatsoever on the value of the cohabitants. But can the Minister not confirm that we are talking about, for example? one of the most attractive cooperative housing associations in Copenhagen, which says a couple and wants to buy a share, and they can actually afford to live there, but they may not have the large savings, so will they not be able to get the mortgage that is needed if you have a value assessment that is higher than the value that the market estimates the property has?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428173054	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428173057	Yeah, that's how it's gonna be. If the valuer's rating is higher than the market's rating, people will see that people who buy housing are we can see that there are 110,000 units in the municipalities of Copenhagen and Frederiksberg, and there are about 125-150 of those who are for sale. It was there before we made this deal, it's still there. I think there are 153 cohabitations for sale in that area... if you go in and look at Boliga today. This is a sign that by far, the vast majority of cooperatives are below the market price because there are so few who are being sold completely openly on the open market. It is a picture that, of course, the cohabitation is a different type of dwelling than a owner's residence is. Surely we should be glad that we have the diversity of our housing market that we have mixed cities. I have been watching over it all the way through: we must ensure that the cooperative housing is hit as little as we can get away with at all. On the other hand, we have not bought into the Left's premise that I should provide a strict guarantee that not a single cohabitant in the whole country could lose a single penny.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428173200	Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428173202	I am just a little surprised because, on the one hand, we hear a Minister of Business advocating that it should be possible for first-time buyers to enter the market and that it is important to protect them. But on the other hand, we have a housing minister who says with this proposal quite openly: it will be more expensive to enter that market and it may even be impossible for them. Because if they don't have the money in their hands, and you don't typically have it as a first-time buyer, they can't borrow for this type of co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co. And I guess that's exactly the point of the cooperative housing: to do something that's on the way there, that's something you might be able to afford a little more. In any case, this is how I have seen the things the Minister is saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428173245	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428173247	I don't recognize what I've said. And if the rapporteur is going to quote me, the rapporteur is very happy to quote me correctly. But I would say that I am constantly puzzled that the Left believes that they are smarter at what the cohabitants want than the cohabitants themselves are. So, when the cooperative housing organization speaks positively about this bill and also finds that the vast majority of cohabitants have increases, you come from the Left and say: We are smarter than you are, you who have a cohabitation. I wonder, and the rapporteur knows that. But I'm surprised you don't stop doing that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428173322	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428173337	The debate is open and I give the floor first to the Minister for Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428173401	The resolution includes many of the initiatives discussed during the negotiations prior to the agreement reached between the government, the Danish People's Party, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, on initiatives against short-term investment in private rental homes. Some of the initiatives in the motion for a resolution are therefore already included in the recent draft law L 178 which provides for the strengthening of tenants and which is a partial implementation of the agreement. As the resolution contains ten elements, I shall confine myself to briefly touching on them. The first paragraph of the proposal lays down an upper limit for proceedings by the Rent Board of 8 weeks. As an upper fixed limit would prevent the rent board from clarifying cases sufficiently and therefore be problematic for legal certainty when the rent board is forced to make decisions before the case is sufficiently clarified, it is, in my view, inappropriate. The said agreement gives priority to means of reducing overall the length of proceedings of the rent boards. The second point of the proposal calls for a model for the rent board to ensure a more uniform and impartial procedure and decision. There is no reason for me to conclude that today's discussion is not on an impartial basis, but the agreement has just decided that a committee should be set up to analyse how the efforts to resolve disputes between tenants and landlords can best be organised. In addition, it has also been decided to examine the possibility of establishing a system in which all rent board decisions are published. In this way, the rent boards will have full access to the other rent boards' decisions and thus be able to correct each other's practices. The third point of the proposal states that the work of the rent board must be strengthened and that this must be done with a contribution of 40 million. kr. It is not clear from the proposal how these 40 million. kr. must be financed, other than that they must be found within the existing framework of the municipalities. It will therefore be at the expense of something else in the municipalities. As I said, the agreement also provides for funds for the rent boards. Those who are included in the agreement are fully funded and therefore the municipalities should not compromise with their other offers to their citizens. The fourth point of the proposal states that a rent register must be established in order to increase the transparency of rent levels and that all decisions in disputes must be made public in an anonymised form. These elements are also included in the agreement concluded, although the agreement provides for the possibility of publishing all the decisions to be examined, since at present this would be a very heavy burden on the rent boards, which today manually anonymises the decisions. The 5th paragraph of the proposal proposes the introduction of a requirement for the landlord to notify the decisions on the rental conditions of the property to the housing organisation and tenants of the property. This is clear both from the agreement reached and from L 178. The sixth point of the proposal shall pay particular attention to comparative rentals in the residential area concerned when assessing comparative rentals by the rent board. It is a good idea for comparison to take into account where comparable leases are purely geographical, and this is also why, already according to the rules in force in the legislation, they are compared to a rental which is generally applicable in the neighbourhood or area. This part of the proposal is therefore already in force. The seventh point of the proposal concerns the introduction of a requirement for comparable or, where appropriate, identical information to deal with cases in the rent boards and the Landowners' Investment Fund. This part of the proposal must be understood to be identical to that contained in the agreement concluded and in L 178. The eighth point of the proposal contains the introduction of a requirement for the owner, by independent construction advisor, to prove the condition of an apartment before any continuous modernisation can take place under section 5 of the Housing Regulation Act. 2. The cost of the documentation shall be borne by the landlord. This part of the proposal must be understood in such a way that it is the same purpose that is sought, which is achieved by the initiative that the occasions to which section 5 (a) of the proposal refers must be understood. 2-modernised, must be examined by the rent board, which is already contained in both the agreement and in L 178, namely to prevent scam modernisations. The 9th paragraph of the motion for a resolution requires that, if the landlord wants to offer a renter payment to move away, the landlord must first pay for legal and financial advice to the tenant and that this is documented in writing. This part of the proposal is an alternative to the ban on offering payment for the tenant to move away. Prohibition of this is contained in the agreement entered into and in L 178 and the reason why a ban was found most useful was that the alternatives would not eliminate the harassment a tenant may feel by receiving an offer for payment in order to move away. Finally, the 10th paragraph of the proposal contains a wish to ensure that tenants who win on the rent board do not incur expenses if the landlord wishes to have the decision tried by the courts. The current rules on the free process already ensure that an economically disadvantaged tenant can have a free process. There are also legal expenses insurances which can in many cases cover expenses. The legal position in force is therefore that, generally speaking, the economically weaker will always have a free process, and it is assumed that the majority of people with legal aid insurance will be able to cover the costs. This part of the proposal will therefore primarily help the more economically prosperous tenants, which contrasts with the fact that the costs to the extent that the tenant is exempted are to be borne by the State. As paragraphs 4, 5 and 7 of the proposal are identical to the initiatives contained in the agreement, paragraphs 2 and 8 of the proposal contain initiatives which are essentially identical to those contained in the agreement, paragraphs 1, 3 and 9 of the proposal contain initiatives which seek to achieve the same objective as those contained in the agreement and, in the case of paragraph 3, are unfinanced, paragraph 6 of the proposal is already applicable and paragraph 10 of the proposal is likely to hit a very limited target group, the government cannot support the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428173922	Thank you, Minister. The next rapporteur is the Social Democrat rapporteur. And this is sir. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428173932	I would like to start by saying that, fortunately, I agree very, very far, or indeed all the way through, with the Minister in relation to the statement and presentation that is here. But there is also a little question mark over the fact that we have just been through three different legislative proposals that we have dealt with as one, and there is a majority in favour of us now passing it on. And it can be said that in relation to just a suggestion about whether you can pay the tenant to remove his property, which has been put forward by the Left here, there is at least a softening that makes it impossible for us to accept what is at stake. I also think it has been very well explained that we feel from the point of view of the Social Democratic Party that, in relation to the legislation here, we are covered very well in relation to the position of the tenants. So, my immediate suggestion would be to bring in some of these things that you do not feel satisfied with in the draft law, and then to table them as an amendment where you can discuss it and discuss it here. However, I think the Minister has very well explained that, in this way, I think we have very, very largely secured and provided for the position of the tenants, both in relation to this, but also in general terms, in relation to the rent boards and the future that comes here, with a much shorter and faster process, I hope, but also with a strength in relation to the work that needs to be done. So from the point of view of the Social Democrats, we feel well covered in relation to the legislative proposal that we have now dealt with first and voted in favour of. So we cannot recommend the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428174120	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428174129	Yes, and first of all, thank you for the proposal. The Minister has, in a slavish way, examined all the points that are here and which of them are, as such, part of the three legislative proposals that we have just debated. However, I have to say something about this, as I pointed out in my rapporteur's speech on the previous paragraph, in relation to this on speed. There we have to say that although the Minister says that there may be something about legal certainty and something about 2 months, that is to say 8 weeks, and whether it is enough time that some of the processing times we have seen on individual cases at this stage are simply too long. So the intentions of the Left in relation to the proposal that we should have short processing times are, in fact, very much in agreement. And that is why I would like to say, as I said in my previous speech in the previous paragraph, that it is one of the things that we will be watching very closely, whether this money will be released, that is to say that more money will come, so that the processing times will come down. That was the positive part of it. Then there's also a debate about how to give people money to move away from their apartment. It is something that is very important to us, that is, that we cannot. However, it is also important that the tenants continue to be able to conclude a voluntary agreement to move. Because it can also be an agreement that means that if you move away from one apartment, you get another opportunity. But it will also be a strange system for the landlord if it is the case that there are some who really want to move and almost stand with their hand out and say: We have to move anyway, but can we not get some money? So it's actually really nice that we've got it framed. I would say that several of the intentions of this are, of course, some with which we are more or less in agreement. However, as I have said, we are in the process of adopting part of it. And with the eight weeks we will be watching very closely, and then it may be that at a later stage, perhaps together with the Left, we will have to take it up again: what are the times of the proceedings?
ParlaMint-DK_20200428174324	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks to rapporteurs. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left. It's sir. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428174330	I can say that, from the outset, we are in favour of the resolution, because in fact we think that it qualifies what we have just negotiated on a number of points. And if there is something we would very much like to vote for, even in relation to what we have just considered, then that is the strengthening of the position of the tenants. I'm so a little worried about that idea that in some form you have to be able to pay tenants. At any rate, at the time we were negotiating, we have brought it to the negotiating table ourselves, that we should stop being able to do so. And then there's the financing thing. We would like more money to come in to strengthen the rent boards. We also had this on the table in the negotiations on Article 5 (5). 2, where our proposals include: was that instead of making such a karen period, where you stop everything, you could make a holding period with a slanted tax ceiling, so that you made a quick sale after acquiring and using § 5 pcs. Secondly, there would be a very high level of taxation, and the proceeds could then go to strengthening the rent boards. It was such a model we had seen before us, and it was then there for various reasons... which has never become quite clear to me why not great sensitivity towards the government, unfortunately. Because I actually think it would have been a model that many could have been satisfied with, also in the marketplace, and could have seen themselves in. But peace be to it. It was not realized, but it was a way of getting some money for the rent boards, and we must at least find out what it should be taken away from; whether it should be regulated on the service ceiling, if it is the municipalities themselves that have to finance it. This is one of the major problems facing local authorities. It's not always that you need money. In the municipality I come from, the City of Viborg, we don't need money. At least not in the time I was on the city council. We lacked the right to spend the money because we were constantly hit against the service ceiling. And when you have some money you want to spend on something more, you have to cut down elsewhere every time. That is one of the problems. So a little attention needs to be paid to funding, but, as I said, we are actually in favour of it. And we would actually like to see some of the elements in the proposal here which qualify the government's proposals and the proposals of the parties to the agreement, perhaps incorporated into that agreement. And that would certainly be a welcome opportunity for us to support that part of the bill. Now I don't remember the numbers from before, but the minister knows.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428174640	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the SF, and that is Mrs Anna Brændemose. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428174650	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Left for making this proposal. I should like to welcome the rapporteur from the SF, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, who unfortunately could not be here. In SF we see it as an important political task to secure the conditions of the tenants. That is why there are several parts of this resolution that we think are sensible enough. There are elements in this proposal which, on a number of points, are somewhat similar to the elements we have just dealt with in the three previous legislative proposals. And the conciliation that forms the basis of the earlier draft legislation also includes a strengthening of the rent boards, which, of course, include the Left. suggesting. The settlement, which is the basis for the prior legal proceedings, has been the art of the possible, but we are loyal to the agreement that has been reached, because some changes in the conditions and rights of the tenants were needed. So to sum up: the SF supports many of the intentions of this resolution, but we simply do not see the point of adopting it on top of the adoption of more ambitious and comprehensive legislation. So with that I must inform you that the SF does not wish to support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428174753	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. No brief remarks to the rapporteur, and the next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten. It looks as if it is Mrs Rosa Lund, so I will give the floor to Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go. There was another name on my list, but here you go, Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428174810	Thank you for that and also thank you to the Left for presenting this motion for a resolution. At any rate, I think it makes me a little bit smarter about what the Left means when they say'security for the tenants'. I do not agree with all parts of this resolution, but I think it has some good elements and then it has some elements that I think are drawing things in a slightly wrong direction compared to what we have just negotiated. However, I agree, and we agree in the Enhedslisten with the Left so far along the way, that the economic foundations for the work of the rent boards need to be strengthened. We agree with that. We also fully agree that a rent register should be established in order to increase transparency. But we have just adopted this in the January agreement, and it did not come into this round of legislative proposals. But that doesn't change the fact that we still think it's a good idea in the Enhedslisten, so we can really support that part too. And then we can particularly support the part that is about the tenants' cost having to be covered if they have won a case on the rent board; then the costs of a subsequent trial must be covered. We are in complete agreement with the Left on this point. But there are also some things in this bill that we really think we have just adopted in the previous legislative procedure that we have just been through and where we think that the things that the Left is proposing in this bill are pulling things in the wrong direction or what to say. Well, of course we think that the agreement we have made ourselves is better. However, I think that there are some points in this resolution which are really very good and which we in the Enhedslist want to be involved in working on in committee. So I hope that this motion for a resolution comes back in committee, I was about to say, but that comes in committee so that we can work on that. Because I think that there are some really, very good points that will strengthen the security of tenants, what I could understand at Mrs Heidi Bank earlier today, was very important. And at least now I'm a little bit smarter about what it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428175022	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. It's Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428175032	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Left for the motion for a resolution. It is only when you try to rent out a dwelling that you really really find out how well protected the tenants are and how complicated the law is. I've tried it one time myself, where I couldn't sell my house, and therefore had to rent out. I had to get help with that legal thing. I have no doubt that there are both good tenants and good landlords, and the opposite. In everything I have done politically and in life in general, I think it is good to find out what turns upside down and then find a balanced solution. However, in connection with the work on housing policy, I have become aware that there may be a need to strengthen the rent boards. It cannot be that there is such a big difference between the speed with which individual boards are able to deal with cases, just to mention the most obvious improvement option for me. For this means that tenants and landlords can risk walking around with stomach pain for too long, exactly 256 days in average in Copenhagen. We cannot be familiar with that. Why, though, hasn't Copenhagen itself tackled it and skeleton for some of the other major cities that have significantly shorter treatment times? Many of the ten elements of the resolution are better and more balanced than what we have just seen in L 178. There is more security, and it is more directly on the challenges we see, for example. Too long treatment time. This is probably due to the fact that there are more of us who, in the context of the length of the housing agreement, offered many of the things that have been included in the motion for a resolution. However, there are elements that need to be looked at more and made as little bureaucratic as possible. For example: Point 5 on the obligation to provide information in the case of rent board decisions and other decisions. Good intentions must not end up in bureaucracy here. What if, in the end, the police and prosecution authorities have to give priority to resources to issue fines or to plead for the fact that they have forgotten to send copies? We could do that, for example. the rent boards automatically upload all significant decisions on rentnævn.dk. In this way, many more decisions will be made available to many more people without unnecessary bureaucracy. I am sure that, by common help, we will be able to organise the proposal. So, in those words, Conservatives support the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428175233	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. No brief comments have been received from the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens. It's sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428175243	This proposal is kind of a bag of mixed candy. There's something in what I think is good, and there's also something that I don't think is so good. So we look forward to a committee dealing with it to see if we can reach agreement on things. And then I hear from the Enhedslisten and the other parties that there is indeed something that they think is good, so whether it should be incorporated into some amendments into the other law, which can then be improved there, must of course be up to the proposers, i.e. whether you could do it that way. Then you get the things you want saved. But I'll leave that up to them. It is going to be some exciting committee readings that we are going to have in the Housing Committee on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428175322	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428175331	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance wants to abolish rent regulation in Denmark; it does nothing good for Danish society. Then the conditions throughout the housing market, the private rental market, would be the same as for housing which has been put into service from 1992 onwards, instead of there being two sets of rules: a set of rules for housing before 1992 and a different set of rules for the free setting of rents for housing from 1992 onwards. That's what the Liberal Alliance wants. The rent boards are an incorporated part of the rent regulation. They decide on complaints about the level of rent and determine whether it is correct according to all the rules in this area. Since we want to abolish rent regulation, we also want to abolish the rental boards. So we do not want to strengthen them by 40 million. kr. We want to abolish them and that is why we are voting against this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428175434	Thank you to the rapporteur. That brings us to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mrs Heidi Bank from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428175441	First of all, I would like to thank you for all the comments you have made on the motion for a resolution. In the Left, we believe that it is necessary to strengthen the rights of tenants. We will create security around the tenants and their homes. This can be done without penalising other forms of housing such as: The co-operative housing. This can be done without penalising the ordinary citizen's pension savings. There is much that we can do and that we should do. Firstly, we can ensure that as a tenant you experience that there is a system that can help you when you need it when you are exposed to injustice. That place is the rent boards. Today, however, as a tenant, both unfair processing times are experienced when submitting a complaint and an uneven treatment of complaints submitted. The length of proceedings in the rent board in Copenhagen has been up to 256 days. By comparison, Aarhus had a processing time of 52 days. Of course, such long waiting times, such great differences are not good enough. In addition, the outcome of the proceedings in the municipalities varies. Depending on the municipality in which the complaint was lodged, there is a greater or lesser likelihood of success. That can't be the point. It creates insecurity. It creates unpredictability and it is not the administration we want politically. We want to ensure a model that provides faster and smoother processing. We want to ensure a model that provides a uniform, impartial procedure, and for the Left it is not just empty words. We want to give priority to funding for this, and to that I can add that we are not talking about municipal funds here. The Left will strengthen the economic foundations of the rent boards' work, so tenants can expect answers in reasonable time within 8 weeks. The left will introduce a model in which the members of the rent board are impartial. We will also ensure increased transparency in rent levels, so tenants and landlords experience a fair and correct rent. Here is the dispute settlement over rent levels central. We want to create transparency in the individual associations with demands for anonymised publication of decisions taken by the rent boards of the property in question, but not only within the individual associations. The Left will establish a rental register in which all decisions in disputes must be made public. We want to make the tenants safe in their homes, but with respect for the tenants and their differences. Owners must continue to be able to receive an offer to transfer leases if it fits in their residential lifecycles, but this must be done after both legal and financial advice paid by the landlord. The security of flexibility must be present for the tenants. Finally, we want to ensure that housing rentals can continue to be improved radically where necessary. We want to ensure a high level of housing. The tenants must have access to up-to-date and healthy housing • real improvements so that the tenants get something for their money. Therefore, the owner must document the booth of a given occasion before an improvement can be made in accordance with § 5 (1). 2. Like other bourgeois parties with which we have had a very good dialogue, the Left had hoped that the government would have a better understanding of ensuring tenants more thorough with measures in the right dosage and location and timing without at the same time creating insecurity for the cohabitants and the ordinary Danish pension saver. The Home Secretary didn't want that. The Left's proposal creates security in a housing market that is now also influenced by the covid-19. Those were the words from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428175828	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Housing Committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200428175845	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 29 April 2020, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
