ParlaMint-DK_20201021125943	The meeting is open. I have a number of messages. I should like to inform you that Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, will be answered in writing. 7, 8 and 9 (S 44, S 47 and S 85) to the Minister for Health and the Elderly are deleted by agreement between the Minister and the authors. I should also like to inform you that Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) 12 (S 76) to the Minister for Housing is deleted by agreement between the Minister and the author. Agenda item 2, draft law amending the law on urban renewal and urban development (proposal No. L 5), item 3 of the agenda, draft law amending the law on the temporary adjustment of housing conditions (proposal No. L 9) and item 4 of the agenda, the draft law amending the law on general housing, the law on the temporary regulation of housing conditions and the law on free-care homes (proposal No L 9) and the draft law amending the law on general housing, etc. L 10), deleted from today's agenda at the request of the Minister for Housing. Today there are the following reviews: Minister of Justice (Nick Hækkerup): Bill no. L 65 (Proposal for a Law amending the Bankruptcy Act, the Law on the Guarantee Fund of Employees and the Law on the Status of Employees in the Transfer of Enterprises). Bill No. L 66 (Proposal for a law on court fees). Marcus Knuth (KF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 42 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on employment requirements for immigrants on cash benefits or integration benefits). Fatma Øktem (V), Karina Adsbøl (DF) and Alex Vanopslagh (LA) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 43 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on equal access to psychological assistance for men and women exposed to violence). Susanne Zimmer (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. Β 44 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of dietary advice on vegetarian and vegan food for children) and motion for a resolution No. B 45 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on green option in all public kitchens). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Radical Left Parliamentary Group has informed me that it has appointed a member of the Parliament of Sofie Carsten Nielsen as a member of the National Bank of Denmark for the remainder of the current term of office instead of a member of the Folketing of Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021130147	The first question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, by Mr Gundelach. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021130152	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021130154	Thank you. The question is: Will the Foreign Minister work for the rapid implementation of the joint EU travel guides in Denmark, which the government itself has been involved in adopting on 13 October 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021130208	Minister of Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021130209	Thank you for the question. I am pleased that a Council recommendation has now been adopted focusing on greater clarity and better coordination between EU countries. It benefits citizens, the travel industry and Danish companies. First of all, let me make it clear that the Council recommendation does not provide for common EU travel guides, as the question indicates. The recommendation is broader and concerns increased EU coordination of covid-19-related travel restrictions. It concerns the handling of entry and exit as well as, not least, access to tests, quarantine and other entry restrictions. The Council's position is not a fixed and final solution, which must now be forced over the Member States' heads. It will continue to be up to each Member State to make the necessary decisions to keep the pressure of infection down. It is therefore a recommendation, not an injunction. Together with the Minister for Justice and Health, the Minister for Health is now looking at how a possible Danish implementation can look, and the work is well under way, but as mentioned above it is complex. One important aspect is also the consideration of the Danish approach to travel guides, including the possibility of creating regional travel guides. Denmark has actively entered into negotiations on the recommendation. We have among other things. It stressed that the ECDC, i.e. the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, should receive data on testing at regional level. The government has stressed the importance of valid data and health care throughout the process. It is a clear ambition for us to implement the Council recommendation in Denmark in an appropriate way as soon as possible. The main concern is, however, and remains, the health and safety of the Danes. We will not compromise on that. Here, of course, it is also important that the infection is currently increasing very strongly in very many European countries, and unfortunately there is also an increase in infection here in Denmark. It does not exactly speak in the short run for a more lenient approach to travel.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021130409	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021130410	Thank you for your answer. Nor do I believe that any of our fellow countries in the European Union think that we should take the very serious health situation we face lightly. I have raised this issue for several reasons. We agreed back in August that the government should work and would look at the possibilities of regionalising travel guides, simply to make them more precise and say: for health reasons it is essential to shut down regions in a country where the pressure of infection is high. But if it is only in one part of the country, we do not take it into account today. Then the country can be green. Conversely, it is also strange to shut down parts of a country where the infection is low if it is only in other parts of the country that the infection is high. We ourselves have already done so in relation to Sweden. There are also some provisions in relation to Schleswig-Holstein, where you can enter with a negative coronatest. That is why I think it is positive that the European Union has made the agreement. But I also think that in the answer I get from the Foreign Minister, I lack a clear message that it is a trail that you want to pursue and that it is something that you want to do quickly. For that would give a more precise picture of where it is safe to go and where it is not. For example, we can take the situation as it is described right now in relation to Germany, where the media at least write that there is a likelihood that the government will shut down Germany tomorrow. This means, on the other hand, that we will also close all Germans' access to Denmark. I think that is something I do not think it is something that I know will have dramatic consequences for, for example, the entire west coast of Jutland in relation to summer house rental, because it is not a worthy purpose. And that will mean that from one day to the next a lot of tourists will be cut off from coming to Denmark, where this is not necessarily due to the fact that the pressure of infection is high where they come from, but that it is in the country as a whole and especially in the case of Germany, the pressure of infection is actually highest in the southern part. That is why I just have to ask: what is the timetable from the point of view of the Foreign Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021130618	Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021130619	We share the honourable Member's view that it is positive that there is now a Council recommendation in which we are trying to better coordinate travel restrictions in Europe and provide greater clarity for citizens, businesses and others. It's really important. In relation to this, the Council recommendation also envisages that Member States should limit travel restrictions to regions with high levels of infection because, as the questioner says, there may be some regions with very high levels of infection rather than having a country-based approach, what many have and which we have today from the Danish side. That is, in fact, very sensible. There may be large differences at the level of infection across national borders. Therefore, it is necessary to find a model that holds.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021130659	Ask, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021130700	But I ask again about the timetable, because it is not something that has just arisen on 13 October. So, it is back to 14 August, when all the parties of the Folketing agreed on the next phase of a controlled opening of Denmark, and the agreement states: The parties note that the government will look at the possibility of regionalising the travel guide. So that was over two months ago. What is the timetable for the government to complete this work?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021130728	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021130729	Thank you. At the same time, we also said that, in order to provide a regionalised travel guide, it is also important that we know the number of infections in the regions, the quality of the tests and the level of testing in each region for which guidance is provided. And we have urged and worked hard to report these figures from the EU Member States to the ECDC so that we can have a better data base. Because we also need to create a model which is sound in terms of health and which is safe, and we do not yet have the figures. But we are still working on it, and it is therefore positive that the Council's position sets out some better regional figures. For that is what must form the basis for us to have a more regionalised approach to travel.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021130805	Torsten Schack Pedersen for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021130807	I'll try again: what's the time perspective? So, what is the next step for the government to see that regional travel guides can be implemented? What are the things the government lacks? As I have said, it is more than two months ago that we agreed politically that we should work for this, and I do not expect the government to have sat on its hands and then thought: well, now we have to see what happens. What are these things that are missing so that the government can get started on issuing these regional travel guides that are important? Both for Danes travelling out, and important in terms of how we effectively healthly handle corona, but which is indeed also important for the professions that depend on the arrival of tourists to Denmark. In other words, not shutting down entire countries where it is only necessary to shut down regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021130855	Minister of Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021130856	Firstly, we have, of course, marked the Council's position, which was in fact only adopted last week. That is what we are talking about, and I myself was present at the meeting, and here the need to get regional figures for tests and for incidence and also figures of a quality that can be trusted so that regional travel guides can be made. Secondly, we have said from the government that we are looking at this and I am looking at it together with the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health.• How we can implement the Council recommendation in relation to the Danish guidelines for travel. Because of course we are interested in a good and robust basis, like the model we have today, which is a clear and objective model based on automatic and objective criteria.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021130935	The question is over. Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister. We move on to a question to the Minister of Justice by Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021130953	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021130955	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that only eight years after the first notification will a perpetrator receive his sentence and even receive a penalty rebate, and is the Minister of State of the view that penalties should be abolished for sentences with a long duration of proceedings?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021131012	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021131015	Thank you very much for the question. Let me start by stating that it is absolutely unacceptable that a victim should wait eight years from notification until judgment is given. Leaving the victims in is an unreasonable waiting position. Too many Danes who have been subjected to a crime are stuck in the system and do not get the justice they are entitled to so that they can move forward in their lives. Long processing times are important for both the wrongdoer, the accused and the accused, but of course also for the sense of justice of all of us and the possibilities of solving crimes. That is why, as the questioner also knows, the government has a strong focus on ensuring that the duration of the proceedings across the entire criminal proceedings chain is reduced, so that the period from the crime is committed to the punishment of the guilty person is shortened as much as possible. Victims of crime should feel like it's good to go to the police. The experience of justice must return. Therefore, the Government's proposal for a new multi-annual agreement also contains a number of initiatives aimed at strengthening criminal proceedings in the police and in the prosecutor's office, with the aim of reducing the length of proceedings. In concrete terms, it is the government's aim, with the presentation, that there be among other things. to be given more hands in the handling of criminal proceedings in the police and the prosecution. In addition, the government will work to identify and implement concrete actions that can reduce the time spent in proceedings across the entire criminal proceedings chain. At the same time, the government will limit the use of so-called penalty rebates due to a long processing period. Last year, I launched a study on the possibilities of limiting the use of punishment in the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights. In fact, we must end unfair discounts for criminals. Therefore, the officials of the Ministry of Justice are looking into how the rules can be changed, and I look forward to discussing it during the multi-year negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021131216	Karina Adsbøl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021131216-2	Thank you. TV 2 has just shown a documentary, seduced by Jakob, about an unpleasant assailant who stalks these girls and who also knocks down one of the girls' father. It was a very violent documentary, where this person has several cases and like wondering about making new cases, because the legal system says that you can say that you have to put the cases together. So these girls' sense of justice isn't very great, considering the legal system and how it works today. In addition to that, they could not get a restraining order or anything else in relation to this one, and so I would like to follow up a question to the Minister, i.e. whether the Minister will support the Danish People's Party's proposal to abolish the penalty debate on cases which have long processing times and thus bypass the immediate red majority, which seems not to want to abolish this penalty rebate. For the Danish People's Party, the victims' sense of justice is extremely important, and they have a belief that the legal system we have also works, and when you see among other things. This documentary, which has been seduced by Jakob, is left with the impression that we have a system that is so much in need of improvement. Therefore, my question to the Minister for Justice will be whether the Minister, together with the Danish People's Party, will help to abolish these penalty rebates, and that, it can be said, should go hand in hand. I am well aware that processing times must be reduced, but it must also be the case that we guarantee the victims' sense of justice. So is this something the Minister wants to be involved in?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021131406	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021131407	It is actually a rather curious question to get, as the questioner is well aware of the answer, since the same question has been raised in the debates we are holding right now. But yes: I think it would be sensible to look at reducing the penalty rebate or removing the penalty rebate. There is a limitation on the European Convention on Human Rights, as I said before, but we need to figure out how to deal with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021131433	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021131434	I am really glad that the Minister will be involved in abolishing these penalty rebates, because it is extremely important that you do not get into a courtroom and there are already some people who say that this matter has lasted too long, so there will have to be some discounts. However, the question is whether the Minister of Justice will go along with the Danish People's Party and bypass the red parties, if some of them do not want to participate in this, so that we can jointly create a majority, and so that we do not have to see that there are penalties for these long cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021131509	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021131510	After all, we shall see what the Danish People's Party will do when it comes to the negotiations on the police settlement, and whether I am looking for my majority as widely as possible, and I expect that we will be able to reach an agreement on the police and prosecutor's office, which will also include red parties. And I do not think that we are encountering an insurmountable obstacle to the issue of penalty rebates in this respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021131539	There's a co-questioner on this question, and it's now Mr. Knox. Sir. Peter Skaarup, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021131541	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mrs Adsbøl for some good questions, and thank you for some good answers if we can believe that something is going to happen. For what the Danish People's Party wants to do here is to abolish the penalty debate in those cases where it is the processing time that makes you get a discount. To that the Minister then says that the Minister will discuss this in the conciliation circle which may seem to be coming around the police relationship. You can also ask the Minister, and that is what I am going to do, whether it would not be sensible, regardless of the conciliation circle, to abolish the rebate that you get as a perpetrator just because it has been a long time. Because you could have the attitude and that is the attitude of the Danish People's Party that if a perpetrator has committed serious violence against a victim, then it doesn't really matter whether the authorities are a little slow in condemning that case. It's still gross violence. It is still completely insane that violence should be used as a means of targeting specific victims. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021131654	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021131655	Yes, and I am not saying that the situation should be resolved in negotiations either. I am just saying that this is one of the elements that has been brought into the negotiations and that I welcome in line with what I have just said. I do not think, however, that we should imagine that the question of the length of the proceedings can be solved by the intervention alone. I think we should look at what we have also proposed to provide the police and the prosecution with resources so that cases can get through the proceedings more quickly. There is also the question that Mrs Adsbøl raised very briefly, namely whether we should look at bringing together more cases, so that we can do it in such a way that we say that when there are some number of cases, we get them sentenced instead of dragging the process, if I may say so, by creating new relationships, with which we will then have to cumulate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021131749	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021131751	When I ask a little more about it, it is of course because in this possible police conciliation group we also have parties with which the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten parties, which may traditionally not be involved in implementing initiatives, in the Folketing, which are tightening up against perpetrators of violence. In any case, we have seen examples of this in the past, where those parties, together with the Socialists, have been responsible for quite lenient sentences in a number of different areas. So I would like to ask the Minister: will the Minister ensure that, regardless of the negotiations, there will be a bill to remove the penalty debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021131825	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021131826	I am not going to explain and defend the policies of the other parties. I just think that when we want to make an agreement and have to make a new agreement for the Danish police and the Danish Public Prosecutor's Office, it is important that it gets as broad anchoring as possible, so that the police and the prosecutors know what kind of premises you are going to work in the coming years. That is why, of course, it makes sense to negotiate widely in the Folketing. I am well aware that it is of course not the wish of the Danish People's Party that the parties on the left of the Social Democratic Party should be included in an agreement, according to the position on the political spectrum.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021131859	Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl for the last question, 1⁄2 minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021131901	Well, thank you, Minister. For the Danish People's Party, it is important that the victims have a sense of justice and a sense of justice of the legal system we have. When you see the documentary • Made by Jakob • I don't know if the Minister for Justice has seen it, otherwise I think the Minister for Justice should see it • it really shows some major issues in our legal system. What is also happening is that it is only when TV 2 starts digging into it that something is happening in relation to the judicial system. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister: does the Minister think that we have a legal system that guarantees the victims?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021131945	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021131947	We have the legal system that we have chosen to have and on which we have been able to reach political agreement. And that's not good enough now. That's why I've invited you to make a new deal, where we bring extra money to the police, extra money to the prosecutor's office. Then we must see whether the Danish People's Party is a man for their hat and would like to be part of that agreement or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021132011	The question is over. The next question is, if I may say so, with the same team: the Minister for Justice, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, and the questioner, Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021132018	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021132020	Thank you. Does the Minister think that it strengthens the sense of justice when criminals may speculate on doing more crime in order to obtain a penalty rebate and thus get several years free and a shorter sentence, and if so, what will the Minister do about this case law?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021132037	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021132038	I think that we can agree that, of course, it does not strengthen the sense of justice if criminals can speculate on committing more crime, delaying matters, obtaining a penalty rebate. And, as I mentioned in the reply just now, it is important for the government to reduce the length of proceedings in criminal proceedings and to end unfair penalty rebates because of the length of proceedings. However, I think it is part of the full picture to point out that, because of the length of the proceedings, the provision on the reduction of penalties applies only to penalties if the length of the proceedings cannot be blamed on the perpetrator. This means that no penalty should be granted if the perpetrator is the cause of the delay. On the other hand, penalties may be granted in cases where the length of proceedings is due to the police, the prosecution and the legal situation of the courts. And this is where I think there is a need to change the criminal code so that in future it will not be so easy to get a reduction in penalties when a crime has been committed and the length of proceedings is dragging on. That is the rule that we in the Ministry are looking at at at the moment. As I said, I look forward to discussing this here, also in the context of the multi-annual negotiations. Having said that, however, I also think it is important to address the underlying problem, namely the long processing times. And, as I have already mentioned, we have also put a sharp focus on and proposed money from the government to ensure that the processing times can be brought down across the entire criminal justice chain, so that it is not only the spectacular cases where it is heard, but that all victims can know that we have a legal system that executes quickly and consistently. One of the things that can mean longer processing times is when what we can call habitual criminals time and time again commit offences. Because, in those situations, the rules of the Code of Procedure provide that cases should be dealt with in one case if this can be done without substantial negotiation or difficulty, and this may mean that a case already initiated must be postponed. I have also asked for this to be looked at, i.e. how we can be effective in this respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021132253	The questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021132254	Among other things, you can... follow the documentary. This is something we can use as a fresh example in this. There you can hear that this guy, Jakob, in these footage, says that they've been 7 years on it, and then they can be 7 years on the next one. After all, it seems that he is at least speculating in this particular case about collecting the cases and then first there it can come to the courts. But if I understand the Minister correctly, does the Minister think that the penalty is there for the wrongdoer, or does the Minister think that the penalty is to the advantage of the perpetrator? I'm just asking when we need to change this. I very much hope that the Minister will fully support this, even if the Minister refers to the fact that there may be some conventions, the Convention on Human Rights, that stand in the way. But then, you might say, a majority in this Parliament decides. I just want to hear from the Minister whether we can turn the minister around at a clear time, whether the red parties will not be involved in this, i.e. that the Minister for Justice will then ensure that there will be some action in this area and that there will be a legislative proposal on this. Also so that we ensure that those who are at risk, for example. These girls who are exposed to such a nasty, ugly guy like that Jakob can get their sense of justice. It's just an example. There will of course be a great many examples that we have heard about and read about. This is not the first time that the Danish People's Party has raised this issue with the Minister for Justice. This is a problem that we have also raised in the negotiations. That's what the Minister of Justice said earlier. So how and how exactly will the Minister ensure that some action is taken, no matter what?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021132450	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021132451	But it is action when we sit and negotiate it. And that has been brought into the negotiations. This is an element of the agreement that we are going to make and that I would like to have with me, and that I understand Dansk Folkeparti also wants to have with us. There will be elements in such an agreement that the red parties will not like. There will certainly also be elements that the Danish People's Party will not like. But that's the way it is when you make deals.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021132519	The questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021132519-2	But I hope then that the Minister for Justice will avoid the red parties if necessary. I should also like to hear about what I asked earlier: does the Minister believe that the penalty is there for the wrongdoer or for the perpetrator? With recent examples from among others. TV 2 certainly seems like a tool for the perpetrator to get more time free. That is why I would like to hear the Minister's reply to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021132553	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021132553-2	I have some doubts as to whether the questioner thinks that the penalty is due to a long period of time or whether what the questioner is referring to is gathering more cases so that they are sentenced at the same time. So if the questioner would clarify that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021132610	The questioner will have the opportunity to do so when she gets the last question. Now we move on to the co-questioner, sir. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021132616	Thank you. Now, of course, we have talked about penalty rebates in the course of the proceedings, and I sense that the Minister is actually prepared to do something. I think it is unclear from the answers that have been given so far whether the Minister will abolish the rebate, as Mrs Karina Adsbøl and the Danish People's Party propose here or how? So I really hope that the government will talk about what to do. If you do not get through with it in the police negotiations with typical bourgeois parties, well, then it has to be the case that you implement it as a bill afterwards in cooperation with the bourgeois parties. I hope the Minister will agree to that. Then there is the second discussion about penalty rebates, which have been raised on the basis of TV 2's broadcast. It is, of course, very much a question of giving a discount, the more times the person commits crime. The minister has a little to say about it. What does the Minister intend to do about this problem? Because it is of course deeply offensive that there is a long time to go, and that one gets a discount, the more relationships one commits. You can actually make an extra relationship to slow down.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021132728	The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021132730	I hope that there will be a plethora of bourgeois parties that will also be part of the agreement that we are going to make so that it will be as broad as possible. These are two elements of what is being asked now, as I understand it, namely the question of the merger of cases, that is to say, waiting before the matter is brought before the case, and the question of this principle of cumulation of penalties. You can have a full cumulation where you say that each and every relationship that is judged must be added to each other. And then you can have the system that we have in Denmark, which is called moderated cumulation, where you set a level of punishment, which is an expression of the condemnation of all matters at the same time. And I have some doubts as to whether that is the principle that is meant or whether it is the principle: should we look at what I think would be sensible to do? that we can say that yes, it is true that there are several conditions, but now we want to have this case condemned, and therefore we are judging it now, even if there are some conditions that will have to wait until later judgment?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021132833	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021132834	I do not really think that the Minister answered the questions I asked, but started to fabulate a little about what we really mean. In other words, first of all, we believe that the penalty should be abolished for a long period of time. Whether that happens in one place or another does not really matter: let us get rid of it. And the Minister answers it unclearly, does not really answer it directly. The second is whether, by merging, in other words by committing new crimes, you can postpone the sentence and get a discount. I do not think the Minister directly answers that question either. Can't we get an answer to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021132911	The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021132911-2	Now, after the questioner has explained what the questioner would like answers to, I shall of course answer. First of all, about the penalty debate: yes, it has to go. We have work to do with the apes dabei, which is that it must, of course, remain within the international rules that we have. Secondly, it is about the time perspective: yes, I think we should try to agree, in the course of the negotiations, to say: well, we can take a case to judgment, even if there are other matters, so that we can be sure that there is some speed in the procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021132946	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. The last question in this instance is to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021132952	Thank you. Yes, because there are several elements to this, I'd like to say to the Minister of Justice. That's one of them. the fact that the perpetrator can likely speculate on committing new crime and then, you might say, postpone the sentence until he gets a verdict because he sort of collects the cases. That's one thing. And then there is the whole duration of the proceedings and the reduction in relation to it. So I would like to hear the Minister for Justice once and for all: if we do not now reach agreement in these negotiations, will the Minister for Justice, together with those who are ready to abolish these penalty rebates because of a long process, make it happen in practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021133029	The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021133030	After all, it is a bit problematic to negotiate in a way that says that we want to get this element through, and will you promise that it will be implemented in any case when there is a broader package of agreements? I'd like to get this element through. I would also like to have other parties with me. That is why, of course, it is something where we are going to look at how we can get it in an appropriate way. It is rarely the case that you get everything you want in a debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021133055	The question is closed. Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. We will continue with questions to the Minister of Justice. Now they are asked by Mr. Peter Skaarup, and co-author is Mr. Skaarup. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021133102	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021133104	I read out the question: what is the Minister's view of the latest pepper spray hoarding in shops, where dealers say it is Mr. And Mrs. Denmark, hoarding pepper spray?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021133123	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021133124	The applicable pepper spray scheme means that any person over 18 years of age without authorisation and without prior waterproof authorization can acquire a pepper spray and possess it in his own home. There is therefore very wide access right now to buy pepper spray in Denmark. The Ministry of Justice's evaluation report on the experience with the pepper spray scheme shows, among other things, that the partial legalisation of pepper spray introduced in 2019 has helped to increase the availability of pepper spray that can potentially be misused. There has been a sharp increase in the number of cases where pepper spray is illegally held and in the number of cases of illegal introduction of pepper spray. Thus, from 2018 to 2019 there has almost been a doubling of the number of felling decisions where pepper spray is included. On the other hand, the evaluation shows that the police circles in the country have reported only one situation where pepper spray has been used against suspected perpetrators in an attempted robbery and that an excessive number of criminals have used pepper spray as a weapon against ordinary citizens. As Minister of Justice, it is my primary task to ensure that the Danes can feel safe, and basically I do not think that we are creating security in society by giving the individual citizen the opportunity to arm himself with pepper spray either. I believe that security in Denmark must be achieved in other ways, and that is also why the government has presented an ambitious proposal for a new multi-annual agreement to the police and prosecutors, which among other things. to create more closeness, more visibility and more local presence of the police. I believe in that much more than to equip the people with weapons that are at risk of ending up in the wrong hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021133307	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021133308	Thank you. In relation to what the Minister says, I am surprised that a government which claims to want to give the Danes security and confidence abolishes a gentle weapon of self-defence, such as pepper spray, which provides more security for the Danes in their own homes. It also provides security for a young girl who is going to the city and needs to have something harmless that can, after all, help in the situation. So I'd like to hear the government about something. Now that the government is saying that this pepper spray thing is quite awful, even though it's allowed in, for example. Germany and many of us have bought it down there. What do you say instead? I think that is the good question here. What does the government bring instead? Are we getting significantly more police officers? Is it much faster to get out? Do we have reduced processing times, which means that ugly cases can take 8 years in Denmark? Do we improve the chances of being able to testify anonymously and we can help the police so that they get there more quickly? I am concerned about this, i.e. whether it is something that can replace what the government is now trying to do away with. When I ask what the Minister thinks is the reason why pepper spray is being hoarded now, the Minister responds a little as if the Minister thinks it is criminals who are buying pepper spray in shops at the moment. I should therefore like to say that those with whom I have spoken and who have acquired a pepper spray are not criminals. Some people would like to have the opportunity in their own home, in other words to be able to defend themselves. It is not necessary to use it, but to have the opportunity and to have the security. So the good question I would like the government to answer here is: what does the government ask instead, and what can the Danes expect instead of the pepper spray, which the minister apparently insists on abolishing?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021133513	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021133514	Those are good questions. There is, of course, both a fundamental and a concrete answer. The basic answer is about the question of: do we believe that we will have a safer society if we let go of the monopoly of violence? I think that one of the things that makes Denmark safe is that we say that those who have the opportunity to use weapons and have the monopoly of violence are the police and the defence. We don't have to fear all kinds of others. There are some who believe that the American model is better, that is, where you can arm yourself and shoot to the right and left. I do not think so; I do not believe that it creates security in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021133552	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021133552-2	The Minister does not answer the question at all, because I asked: what is going to happen instead? So, the government abolishes the law on pepper spray, the Danish People's Party and the bourgeois parties have introduced, so that you have a little more security in your own home. It abolishes the government. So I ask: what is going to happen instead? There will be no answer to that. The minister pretends it's all the criminals who buy these pepper sprays and as if a whole lot of ugly things have happened. But the criminals could have just used a much worse thing than pepper spray in connection with what they've committed. Does the Minister not really believe that this is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021133631	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021133632	I would like to admit that I did not answer the question. Half the minute simply went too fast to get around all the good things I had to say, but now I have 24 seconds more to try to get a little further down the road. I believe that some of what we should hopefully build together into the new police agreement, which would provide more security, are more officers, more closeness and shorter processing times, just to mention some of the elements that we need to build in. Then I'll say something else. No, I can see that I have to get back to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021133703	Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021133709	I do not quite know whether time is with or against the Minister here, but at least the Minister puts forward some principles which he himself has difficulty with, I think, to defend. What we are talking about is that it is now legal to use pepper spray as a means of defence, in other words that you are allowed to have it in your own home. If someone breaks in, you can defend yourself with it against thieves or robbers, violent people who come in. That is what the government wants to abolish. There Mr. Peter Skaarup: What can you do? Well, is it because you need the kitchen knife instead? What kind of weapons is it, or what kind of means is it that the Minister of Justice believes the citizen should be able to use in the future to protect himself from illegal intruders when he wants to ban the pepper spray, which, in relation to, for example, a knife in the kitchen drawer does not do nearly the same damage to the robber, the violent person who tries to penetrate a property?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021133809	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021133810	I am well aware that this was the idea of the scheme: that you should have the opportunity to have pepper spray in your own home, because then you could defend yourself. Now we have evaluated the system and have to note that this is not happening at all. What is happening, however, is that we can simply see that, as I said before, there has been a sharp increase in the number of cases where pepper spray is held illegally and where pepper spray is illegally imported. And that from 2018 to 2019 there has been a doubling of the number of felling decisions in which pepper spray is included. That means that what was the objective of this scheme has not been achieved. That does not answer the question of what we are going to do instead, but fortunately I now have a whole minute at my disposal, which is why I can go a little further in my answer: what we have to put in place is that we need a police force that is nearby and that comes when there are problems and that, of course, we have to ensure that perpetrators are not given the opportunity to arm themselves, as has been the case. So there are a number of elements we need to address. We are also working on some of this in the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021133916	I note that this is about every second time that the Minister keeps an eye on time. Now it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021133921	But the paradox is that what is actually intended for that, says the Minister, is working. The problem then is that some people are breaking the law and doing something else in this regard. But isn't that what we're going for? I mean, if people illegally import, for example. cigarettes for Denmark, we are not doing it illegal to smoke. The same could be said if people illegally take a pepper spray across the border. Now the Minister will make it illegal to use it, despite the fact that he says that what was actually the legitimate purpose is working very well. So aren't we dealing with a Justice Minister here shooting gray sparrows with cannons?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021133957	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021133957-2	No, because, in addition to the apparent arming of criminals, the evaluation also shows that the country's police circles have reported only one situation where pepper spray has been used against suspected perpetrators of robbery and that an excessive number of criminals have used pepper spray as a weapon against ordinary citizens. And that's the problem. And that's why this scheme doesn't work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021134027	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021134030	I must admit that the more I hear the Minister replying or not replying the more worried I actually become about the logic of what the government is bringing here. So, the government says that now we are abolishing a means of self-defense, which many Danes are happy with at the moment you hoard them, you bought them when the opportunity came but the government does not put anything instead. And then the minister says, "Well, we've armed the criminals." But listen, the criminals are unfortunately armed. They are armed with guns, knives, with all sorts of things; we hear about it every day in the media. What is the government doing here?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021134113	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021134114	It is a curious argument to say that, because criminals are already armed to some extent, we must give criminals access to further arms. That is simply not the policy of this government.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021134126	The question is over. We will continue with the next question, which is also for the Minister of Justice, and where it is Mr. Peter Skaarup, who is a questioner, and fellow questioner is Mr. Skaarup. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021134135	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021134136	That is another good question: does the Minister think that it strengthens or weakens the sense of justice that a madman from Funen, who kills three people, only gets three years in prison when the penalty is eight years old?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021134156	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021134156-2	Thank you for the question. I believe that we can all agree that the matter to which the question refers is quite tragic: three people were killed because a man chose to sit behind the wheel in a spirited state, and not only did he choose to drive at 150 km/h. on a road. This is totally unacceptable and I am, in fact, deeply concerned that a family has lost three family members with a fingertips because of the bluntness of one man's behaviour. Unfortunately, as we know, this is not a unique example of madness drivers being a problem around the country. I therefore believe that we must reduce the driving of madness significantly more than we do today. We need penalties that work and can be felt; we need to get the cars of madness off the street quickly. could seize and confiscate the cars. Therefore, at the beginning of the year, the government launched an initiative against madness driving. Among other things, the proposal requires a review of the level of penalties in the criminal code on dangerous driving in order to check whether the penalties are being used sufficiently, which is what is being aimed at here. I am deeply outraged and frustrated when I hear that a person is sentenced to three years in prison for alcoholic beverages and at a rate exceeding 100 per cent. to have hit another car, with the result that three people have lost their lives. And I understand that the judgment passed is in line with the case law in this area. I simply think that it is too cheap to get rid of it, and that is also why the government is going to table a legislative proposal which provides for a significantly stricter level of penalties for breaches of the criminal code on, among other things, criminal law. manslaughter when committed in connection with the driving of madness. I believe that this proposal will have a noticeable effect on the fight against madness and I look forward to discussing it in the Chamber soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021134356	Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021134358	Thank you to the Minister for a good answer here, I think, an answer that tells us that the government is working seriously with solutions so that we can punish much harder on these matters. I think that is what is needed, and the Danish People's Party is thankful for that, so the government is moving in that direction. I think that this case, together with other cases, is a sign that we are dealing here with an area where the penal system does not keep up with what is needed and what we have actually been aiming for politically in relation to several different restrictions we have made at Christiansborg. And the Minister is right to say that the case law tells us that in other similar cases it has given three years or less. What I would like to see in such cases is that we used the Minister to tell the Danish Parliament: why do we not actually use the penal framework that exists in the 8 years of prison? I mean, why do the sentences often lie? We can see that in this case too, in the low end of the criminal record, when we are now in the Folketing, that it should actually be punishable by 8 years of imprisonment in these cases? That was one question. The second question is all the more specific, because the Minister is now saying that we must have higher penalties: can the Minister support the Minister's party colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council? Jeppe Bruus, who in TV 2 Funen has said that in such cases the government wants a five-year sentence, and will the Minister ensure that legislative proposals are put forward in the Folketing that the minimum sentence in such cases is 5 years in prison, knowing that there is therefore a possibility of giving up to 8 years in prison in such cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021134551	Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021134551-2	I agree that the penal system on this point does not follow suit as it was said. I believe that one of the most potent means we can use when someone is driving madness is seizing the car, confiscating it and selling it away. Some parties are having a bit of trouble with that. I know that, fortunately, the author's party has no difficulty with that, so we will follow it in that way. I would very much like to return to how we can increase the penalty and how much it should be done in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021134624	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021134625	Yes, of course I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to do so. Because what I think is incredibly important is that we ensure that there is a bottom here, i.e. that there is a bottom called 5 years imprisonment. In fact, that is what the Socialists have said in the media, so I do not really see the problem of the Minister confirming what the Socialist Legal Rapporteur has said in the media, namely that we want a five-year prison sentence, at least, in such cases. Because we must send out a signal that is unmistakable to those who drive wildly and violently in an area where, in fact, we cannot drive very fast at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021134703	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021134704	But what we are going to do is simply to increase the level of punishment that we now have and to increase it significantly. And to speak in concrete terms on the question, it will be proposed that the penalty for negligent manslaughter and negligently significant bodily injury, as it says, in connection with driving madness, will be increased by up to half in normal cases. And a corresponding sharpening will take place in cases of deliberate danger. So it's gonna be all the other things in cases like this with these three years, if you increase by up to half.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021134747	Thank you. Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021134748	Thank you, President. After all, the Minister knows all about the various degrees of intent, which is why I think we can take this up to a different level and ask the question whether it would not be reasonable to consider whether, in the specific situation we are dealing with here from Funen, we should really be out of the involuntary and inside the real will. Well, getting drunk in your car and driving at almost 200 km/h. I suppose down a road where you normally have to drive 80 km/h must be considered to be so reckless that you have accepted the risk associated with it. That is why I would just like to ask at the outset whether the Minister does not agree that this should actually be charged as a deliberate, deliberate homicide.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021134843	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021134844	It is in this type of situation that I am so fond of the questioner because we can have some of the debates that we both love so much. And I understand perfectly well the point of not being able to say that this is really covered by the lowest degree of intent, that is, the one we call dolus eventualis, with the good old happen what will-doom. I am absolutely certain that the prosecutor who has been on this case has assessed whether it would be possible to prosecute this as a deliberate murder, which would have moved us, speaking of Mr. Peter Skaarup's question was raised in an entirely different level of punishment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021134926	Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021134927	But unfortunately, the Minister of Justice doesn't really indicate how he would have looked at it. I fully agree that the prosecution may have had that view. But in order to come to the aid of the Minister, we could change the law to make a minimum penalty, including the unintentional one, and to remove the cumulation rules, so that you kill three people, you will be sentenced to three times the minimum penalty, whether it is in the low proportion of the intention or that is the top part of the unintentional one. Would it not be reasonable, not least to the bereaved and the victims, simply to remove all the doubts and then to say: if you put yourself in this crazy situation at all, you are sentenced to a minimum sentence of five years, just as we know it from manslaughter in section 237, and one per year. People you kill?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021135015	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021135016	When you have a specific case, it is incredibly enticing because you are offended. If you make a minimum penalty, you just have to be aware that it does not only cover the specific case that you imagine or have in mind, but that it must also apply to all other cases where there may be circumstances that would make it less sensible to do so in the situation. That is why I think it is a sensible principle to say: we would like to indicate a level of punishment, but it is the courts who, in the specific case assessment, assess what the judgment should be so specific.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021135050	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup for a final question, 1⁄2 minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021135052	Thank you. I really think that we are moving forward in relation to this issue in a way that at least seems to be tightening up. But I also think that the Minister could be more involved in the debate which Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has travelled here in the end: whether to ensure that these matters are dealt with in a different way. Because it would also open up the possibility of triggering a higher penalty in such cases where three people are killed. And what we would like to see was for it to be regarded as negligent manslaughter, because the crazy driver has a huge responsibility for the action that has taken place.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021135137	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021135138	I think that greater punishment is needed, but I really believe that some of what will be most effective in relation to insanity drivers will be the seizure and confiscation of and the sale of cars, so that the proceeds go into the treasury. And I really hope that we will be able to go along with the austerity which will really be an iron fist in the fight against insanity motorism.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021135201	The question is over. Thank you to the Minister for Justice, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Peter Skaarup. We will continue with a question to the tax minister by Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021135209	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021135210	Thank you for that, President. What is the Minister's position on making the craftsman's allowance more flexible in order to promote green investment in the homeowners and to maintain jobs in the construction industry, for example, by creating the opportunity to save up over several years, instead of the amount always having to be spent in 1 year?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021135231	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021135232	Thank you very much for the question. This is, in fact, a very good question, because it concerns a scheme, the so-called housing job scheme, which can be said to be both a good one, but also a popular one. It is also called the craftsman's allowance, and it is one of them. helping to provide incentives for energy renovation of private homes and thus also helping busy families in a busy everyday life. It is just to get the facts in place that in 2020 a deduction can be made per year. person up to DKK 6,200. for labour costs for services, while there is a deduction of up to DKK 12,500. for work wages for artisan services. It has been a crucial consideration since the introduction of the scheme, and I know that the party of the questioner has been involved in this, that it should be relatively easy to manage both for the citizens, but also for the companies and, of course, for the authorities as well. The reality is that, as a result of this deduction, the craftsman's benefits are already being used to a large extent for green services, if you like. Thus, about half of the reported deductions relate to artisan services related to energy saving, e.g.: insulation work and the replacement of windows. So there is a lot of green in the scheme already today, and that is why it is a good arrangement and the government does not, as a starting point, propose to change the scheme. It is clear that we are, of course, listening to whether there are ideas about where it can be improved. However, it is clear that if more money is to be spent on the scheme like this, there will of course also have to be funding for it. It goes without saying, and I think it is also a point when you look at the crisis in which the Danish economy has come as a result of the Coronapandemic, that the craftsman's profession is not at present one of the hardest-pressed professions. On the contrary, employment in the construction industry is therefore high among the craftsmen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021135433	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021135434	First of all, I hear the Minister say that there is no rejection of anything and basically is open to input, but that it may not be the right place, and then I understand that there are two arguments in it. One should be something with the administration of it, and the other should be something with the fact that it can be more expensive. But I'd love to hear a little bit about that. Because if it's already 50 percent today. If we take advantage of the craftsman's allowance here, of the fact that it goes to green technology, what should make it more difficult to deal with administratively if we accumulate it? I mean, if people, for example... would like to have a larger replacement with new windows or insulation or perhaps a heat pump, or whatever it may be, you could say that they should not be tied to just just being able to spend up to the 12,000 kroner that is max. Today, but that you might have had the opportunity to say that you can add it together for the next 3 years, and that's 36,000 kroner. It's a bigger printout, and then you have the opportunity to install it. It will give some more opportunities, and it will give some more muscles to make green and good with, so to speak. Nor can I quite understand why there should be an economic challenge in that, because the deduction is there today. Is it because the Minister is involved in the fact that there are some who are not using it today and that, if you make freer opportunities, there will be more who take advantage of it? But if that's what the argument is, and I can see from the Minister's main movement that that's a particularly good argument? Because would it not be in such a green spirit to say that the more citizens, homeowners, out there can do for themselves to improve their total CO2 and, compared to some of the things that I know the Minister is messing with on his desk, it is still relatively small money we are dealing with here. So my idea and the idea of the Danish People's Party is that we say: 3 years forward, and that is so max. $36,000 you can use. Then it is clear that you can't sell the house in the year 2 and things like that, and in that way you haven't made the total investment in your ownership period and stuff like that. There has to be some control over that. But basically, the Minister must come up with some more and better arguments before we drop that idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021135636	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021135636-2	I would say that it has actually been very good to discuss with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Because I think that, when it comes to the green agenda, we agree on the importance of prioritising it, and I am very pleased about that, and I think that the discussions we are now having on cars are also going very well. When it comes to this arrangement, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt himself the arguments. It is clear that if you accumulate the amounts, it can encourage more people to use the scheme. So there can be a challenge with funding. You just have to bring that. The second is, of course, that we should bear in mind that there is a cyclical relationship with the labour market in general. And these are the arguments which I know the author's party itself has taken note of when it discussed how the system is to be put together.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021135720	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021135721	Thank you. But is it so that, instead of it sticking to the conjecture, we might be able to get a little more factual stuff on the table right now? In other words, would the Minister give us some calculations which would illustrate whether it would break a hole in the box, so to speak, if this was given the opportunity? Then it could also be that if you say that you have to use 3 years of deduction for the green measures, the half of the money that is now spent on non-green measures would get into the green box, and that the minister would at least make the climate minister happy. And I guess that's not what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021135755	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021135757	My feeling is that he's always happy because this government is doing a really good job in the climate area. We are, of course, open to looking at how this instrument can also be adapted to the new times we are in, with the major challenges we face in the climate area. But there are just some things you need to bring in the back of your head here. Basically, this is a very good system, which is being used by a great many people. It helps families with a busy everyday life, and it helps to ensure that you can get a craftsman's job done, which you may at best just have to stay away from and put on organized labour. So it is basically a good arrangement and we think it should be maintained.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021135838	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021135839	I'm glad we're getting this far. As far as I am concerned, I can say that we use it primarily for cleaning and such things, and it could be that if you were given the opportunity to refurbished energy, you would have been in such a good mood that you could clean yourself, and then both society and you would have gained an advantage from it. So, frankly, I hope that with regard to the optimism that he indicates is over in the Ministry of Climate Affairs, the tax minister will be a little bit more inspired by it, and then bring it with us the next time we discuss this proposal. At least we're not giving it up. So we look forward to seeing the calculations and hopefully also a slightly more optimistic tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021135908	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021135910	The mood is always high with the tax minister, and I don't know if it was because I was here not long ago vacuuming myself at home. You can never completely deny that. But I think that is a good point and let us try to look at what we can do at all to ensure that we get the optimal climate effect out of the arrangements we have. But there are some issues here that need to be taken into account. Basically, it is a good system, which is being used by a great many people, and they must still be given the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021135933	Thank you to the tax minister. Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. We move on to the next question, which is addressed to the Minister for Business by Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021135953	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021135955	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that it is reasonable for the government to recommend that a large number of events be cancelled without guaranteeing compensation for the professions concerned?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021140000	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021140004	Thank you for the question. Well, we are working at high pressure to hold our hands under Danish industry in the best possible way through the corona crisis. Specifically, the government, together with a broad majority in the Folketing, has introduced a number of historically large aid packages to mitigate some of the consequences that companies are experiencing. The aid packages have been extended and extended in several stages to allow more companies to seek appropriate compensation schemes. But corona is still in Danish society, and therefore the health authorities have decided to turn down the activity with new restrictions. It hits some parts of the Danish business community hard, and therefore the government and a number of parties, including the Left, concluded an agreement that provides extra help for the particularly hard-hit professions. I am pleased that we agree with that agreement that suppliers of private parties and social events with at least 50 participants held outside private homes and gardens should have access to the compensation scheme for self-employed people and the one applicable to fixed costs. However, this does not mean that everyone will be covered by the compensation schemes. Organisers of private parties and social events cancelled as a result of the recommendation to limit social activity cannot be compensated as this is a recommendation. If they were to be compensated through the existing compensation schemes approved under the crisis aid rules of the European Commission, it would be necessary to introduce a genuine ban. I am fully aware that we are asking some professions to bear an extra burden as part of their efforts against the increased coronasmite, and I have both great sympathy for, but of course also understanding their situation. It is a difficult task to find the right balance in order to keep the infection down at the least cost.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021140151	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021140153	Thank you. And thank you for your answer. After all, I share the satisfaction that agreements have been made which have ensured compensation in a number of cases. But my question relates to the specific situation, which I believe we are many parents who experienced in September, when at Aula a letter was ticked from the Minister of Education, where among other things there was a letter from the Minister of Education. Standing: You should cancel or cancel all social events in connection with school, leisure and youth education. This applies to social events or events in connection with the school day or outside regular school hours, e.g.: class parties, shared breakfast, camping schools and study trips. And it's just to take a small part of the text. These are quite correct recommendations. And it is good to hear that the Minister is sympathetic to the professions concerned. It is just difficult for the professions concerned to pay their bills with the Minister's sympathy. And it hurts equally to the professions involved when customers fail, whether it is a recommendation or a injunction and a restriction. That is why I think it is a big bill that the government is pushing in front of it. When the canoe is cancelled, a few days after this message comes out, there is no compensation for the canoe; when the Tivolitur and the visit to the museum are cancelled, there is no compensation. And I think it is a big bill that the government is wiping off on the professions concerned and whether that is why the government alone makes recommendations instead of restrictions is hard to predict. But does the Minister think it is reasonable that de facto replacement-free regulation is being made with strong calls for parents and schools to refrain from activities for the sake of corona? Of course, everyone is so responsible that the recommendations are met, but there is no compensation for those who lose the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021140403	Thank you! Then we get an answer from the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021140404	But there is no doubt that during the Corona crisis, which came out of the blue, very suddenly and at extreme speed, we have had to navigate through a fight against infection, which has consisted of recommendations, but also of injunctions. And when we talk about concrete compensation, it is just that if we are to compensate through the compensation schemes that we have and which have been approved under these crisis aid rules by the European Commission, there must be a real ban on it. What we can do, and what we are working on, is to minimise the costs for the companies concerned here by warning things in better time, and we are working on a model for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021140445	Thank you. Then that's the questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021140447	This means, however, that for those professions which have experienced turnover falling significantly on top of the request from the country's Minister for Education, it is a pity. It was then a fall in turnover due to the fact that schools and parents have acted on the recommendations made by the government, while for the professions concerned, who find that the school class is not going on a field trip, that the high school class is not going on a study trip, it is a pity. Does the Minister really think that is fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021140518	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021140519	I have no doubt that it hits hard when you experience a fall in turnover, and it does, whether it comes from a recommendation or as a result of an injunction. I would just like to point out that the aid schemes approved by the European Commission under these crisis aid rules must be based on an obligation. And we have been constantly working to combat infection under corona both used bans, but also used recommendations, and this has been based on concrete assessments of when to do what. But, of course, the goal is to fight the infection together.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021140556	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021140558	Thank you. Well then, the answer to the professions concerned is that this is what in other professions is de facto called replacement-free regulation. Actually, I don't think that's fair. When we as parents, schools and others take on the responsibility of listening to the recommendations and reacting to reduce the pressure of infection, then a bill is left with some professions. I think they appreciate the Minister's sympathy. I think they would be even happier in terms of financial compensation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021140632	The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021140633	I just think that we should end by remembering each other that, along the way, we have constantly seen where the aid packages have either been inadequate or have been able to improve, and we have together stretched the safety net even wider. Most recently, we have done so for the suppliers who are at the private events, in other words social events that are being held outside the private homes. I am quite sure that this is a debate to which we will return. We have improved things before, and we must see if we can do so in the future too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021140708	Thank you to the Minister for Industry, thank you to Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen. The question is over. Then we move on to the next question, which is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration by Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021140718	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021140720	Thank you, sir. President. Why is it that the government has not ensured the relocation of criminals rejected asylum seekers from Kærshovedgård in Central Jutland, despite the fact that the Social Democrats clearly promised this before the June 2019 elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021140735	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021140737	Of course, the government continues to believe that there is a need to look at the future accommodation of rejected asylum seekers and criminal foreigners. We will therefore present a comprehensive solution for the accommodation of foreigners without legal residence in this parliament collection. We are convinced that we must pursue a policy in which we spend the money wisely. The former government's planned center on the island of Lindholm was a very expensive solution. That would have cost me $1 million. kr. per year per year, person to run the center. That is more than three times as much as it costs to have a person accommodated at an exit center today. Our view is that it would be a waste of money and that we can have much more return-travel policy for the same money. The government is therefore working on a different and better solution, because we have in no way forgotten the plans to look at an alternative accommodation of the foreigners sentenced to expulsion. I fully understand that living close to people who have been convicted of crime and who have no future in Denmark can create insecurity. That would be the case no matter where this group is located. We also heard this from citizens of Møn and South Zealand in connection with the bourgeois government's accommodation agreement down there. That is why we are working hard to ensure that foreigners who have no legal residence in Denmark actually go home. After all, this is the very best solution. In this connection, we have set up a new board, the Home Travel Agency, where we bring together all the work on the return policy under one roof, and the government will in this parliamentary assembly it will happen after New Year's Day also make a proposal for a Return Travel Act. It's gonna be our very first traveling law. It will contain a wide range of initiatives to ensure that more people without legal residence go home. In addition, I have also terminated the contract with Danish Refugee Aid, which has so far had the task of advising rejected asylum seekers about their return journey, and we have left the task with the Home Travel Agency. Finally, we have decided that the Foreign Affairs Agency must quickly review the pile of cases involving certain refugees from Damascus to investigate who no longer needs protection in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021140939	Hans Kristian Skibby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021140940	Thank you to the Minister for answering the question. We in the Danish People's Party are fully involved in the reasons and activities outlined by the Minister in relation to changed management and reorganisation etc. But what puzzles the Danish People's Party is that, in relation to the scale of the problem, the nature of the problem, the number of asylum seekers rejected, etc. If you look at the understanding paper that was agreed between the government party, the Social Democrats, and their political hinterland on the left of the Chamber back in 2019, then it said: A new government will work for criminal expulsions to be sent out by Denmark more quickly than today. A new government will launch an investigation into where they can best be placed as long as they stay in Denmark. It is as soon as a year and a half ago, and they are still away in the same place. What has the government actually done? The only visible result that has been achieved is the removal of 759 million. kr. from the Finance Act, money earmarked for this project to get the criminal aliens away from Kærshovedård and somewhere else. If that is the way in which the government actively conducts a return policy, then there is nothing to say that we in the Danish People's Party and very many citizens wonder that no more has happened in the past year and a half. Now the Minister says that something will happen now in the coming period, and after New Year the government will probably come up with a proposal. Of course, we welcome the fact that there will be an initiative from the government, but we just cannot understand that it should take so much time to change the direction of the ship on such a relatively uncomplicated matter as it is that rejected asylum seekers obviously have to leave Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021141145	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021141147	Thank you for that follow-up question. In fact, I think that the questioner is dealing with two different issues here. One is how we get people out of the country on the plane and home. And here I think that we have contributed a great deal in the year and a half that the government has been sitting in the offices: among other things. a new board has been set up, we have arrived at a new travel law, we strengthen the government's muscles by taking back a task from Danish Refugee Aid and ensuring that it will be the task of the Home Travel Authority to get people on the plane and home as soon as possible. And by taking the pile of refugees on temporary residence permits from Damascus and reviewing whether there is still a need for protection. These are quite specific steps towards returning home.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021141225	Thank you. Then it's Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021141227	It does not change the state of the matter that the government has actively removed 759 million. kr., which was intended for this question, and has replaced it with 0 kr. We in the Danish People's Party think this is a provocation to the great challenge that we have and which is visible to everyone who lives and is in Central Jutland: The number of charges against the people who live at the exit centre at Bording has almost doubled over the past 18 months, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party think that the government is simply sleeping too long in order to solve these problems. And that does not give the Minister any indication of how to change.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021141306	Then it's the minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021141307	Now this can't turn into a fight between parts of the country. Well, these people aren't gonna be any better people by being moved from Central Jutland to South Zealand. The dissatisfaction that I fully understand that there is in Central Jutland also appeared in South Zealand, which is why we see no reason to spend three times as much money to accommodate people and have a ferry on shuttle service into South Zealand with buses to Copenhagen and to the rest of Zealand if we do not really get anything new for the money. That's why we're saying we need to find a smart accommodation. It may cost a little more, but I dare guarantee that it will not cost the triple amount of what it costs today. It must be financially responsible and then we must separate the rejected asylum seekers from the criminal aliens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021141342	Hans Kristian Skibby for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021141344	Now the Minister says it must be a wise solution. You have had another year and a half, and you have done nothing at all. Outside these thick walls, there are probably many who wonder that there can be a year and a half with nothing compared to a very tangible case, where there are a lot of criminal rejected asylum seekers running around in Central Jutland without a particularly high risk of reprisals. It is, of course, the honest truth, the everyday life that is experienced in Bording and the surrounding area, and it was before the elections. Another government then tried to do something about it, and now the money has just been removed, and that is where I try to ask in remembrance: why has the government just removed the money and not provided an alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021141426	Thank you. Now we get answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021141426-2	I take the view that the previous government would move some problems from one place in the country to another place in the country and spend three times as much money on it. I don't think that makes much sense. We have put forward concrete initiatives to strengthen the return policy of very low-practical political initiatives which do not work well on the front page of the newspapers, as did the island of Lindholm, but which actually get people on the plane. That's what this is about. That is what we must be able to agree on. Then we agree that there are too many accommodations at Kærshovedgård in Midtjylland. We agree with that, and we would like to have the criminals accommodated somewhere else. We're gonna find a solution, and we're gonna introduce it to this parliament assembly, as the Prime Minister has said.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021141503	Then the question is closed, and we thank Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby for the question and for the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration. Then we go to the Minister for Culture with a question by Mr. Stén Knuth, Left, and co-author is Mr. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021141519	Sir. Stén Knuth, Left, for reading the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021141528	Thank you for that, President. On the basis of the Division Association's information campaign, which started on 15 October, where they tell us that 46 matches have been held without anyone being infected and, moreover, in full safety, is the Minister aware of whether the government is considering granting access to more spectators in superliga stadiums?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021141549	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021141552	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by saying that there is nothing we would rather in the government than to fill the spectators of the stadium and, in fact, the entire sports and cultural life up again with happy fans, happy audiences. But we are in a different situation now than we did over the summer, when the infection was at a very low level. Therefore, according to health authorities, it is not safe to carry out sporting events or other cultural events with more than 500 present at present. I am incredibly pleased that the DBU and Divisions Association, when we co-created the experimental scheme over the summer, did the huge job of ensuring that thousands of spectators could safely attend matches in the stadiums around the country. The good cooperation I hope we can hold on to, both here in the Folketing, but also with the DBU and Divisions Association, so that as soon as the health authorities again believe that it is safe to settle events with more than 500 present, so that they can also get the football fans back to the stadium.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021141659	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021141701	Thank you and thank you to the Minister for your reply. I fully agree that we must maintain the good cooperation in raising these agendas as well. For the Left too, the starting point is security first, but we also pay tribute to the principle of leaning on facts. And the fact in this case is that the Divisions Association has shown that 46 matches have been held with protocols... a huge work with that, what to say, contain people in these sections of 500 pieces that they could get to and from. There have been trained inspectors. Everything has been done properly, and no one has been infected at all. The minister leans against a pressure of infection, but it is certainly not the fault of the football and Division Association that the pressure of infection is so high. In fact, we have shown that it is not the fault of football that the pressure of infection is high. Isn't the government looking at these numbers? Are they not looking at it, and what does the Minister think about it, also that we are having a talk about the facts that are actually being used here, so that we are also beginning to look at it and not just at the number of infections?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021141823	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021141824	First of all, I think we can hopefully agree that we should be careful to say that it is someone's fault, because it is a virus we are dealing with here. So it's nobody's fault. You cannot negotiate with it, you cannot make agreements with it, you cannot secure against it until you have a vaccine. We can do these measures with distance, hand hygiene, etc., and there is no doubt that the clubs have shown that this makes them super sound, super responsible. So I... yeah, I gotta come back.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021141901	There are several possibilities for this. Sir. Stén Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021141905	Thank you. We in the Left feel that, when we have shown that none of these matches has caused people to be infected, we would really like to help open up more to stadiums. Can you understand a wonder in the Division Association that when they have actually completed these battles completely securely based on the protocols that have been agreed, they will be shut down from one day to the next? Can you understand the amazing excuse, can the Minister understand the wonder one can have in the Division Association when they have just shown that there has been no risk of infection in relation to the struggles they have conducted?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021141946	I have to say to the questioner that it was well saved in relation to the direct indictment. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021141951	I understand the frustration that we share in the government and also with the Left. Because there is no doubt that they have shown that they can do it properly and responsibly, and that is why I have no doubt that as soon as possible, clubs can do it again as professionally as they did over the summer. But what must also make an impression on the questioner and the Left, the author's party, is that the health authorities say that the huge difference is the number of infections. The higher the overall level of infection in society, the higher the risk of bringing more people together, for example. For super league games.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021142028	Thank you. Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Kim Valentin, who has 1 minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021142033	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I have to say that I am very sorry that the Minister does not want to meet with us, because I am generally very happy to have meetings with the Minister. And that is because we usually get somewhere when we sit down and talk about things; when we try to find a better solution than the solution that is today. And if we go to this with knowledge instead of just saying that you are afraid of what happens if you do that and that, but instead bring in the knowledge that we have from months of protocols from the superliga model, then I believe that we can find a better solution. And I hope the Minister will listen to this and invite us to a meeting afterwards. But let me ask: what is the logic of Illum's House of Housing offering 800 people, while a football stadium, where you are in the open air, can only bid in 500? Can you get a brief explanation for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021142135	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021142136	I don't think I can promise a brief explanation, but I'd like to comment on it. Because what I hope also impresses the questioner is precisely that the rates of infection are different. We learn more about the virus all the time. It came earlier this autumn than we thought. So the government is impressed when the health authorities say that, in relation to the overall assessment of the situation and the development of the infection rates, this is not something that can be put on a formal basis, but that health authorities do not consider it appropriate to bring together more than 500 for events. We are, of course, working to make a better predictability, so that you also know when we get out of this and what it takes, but also so that, if it, God forbids it, if you have to say it gets worse, you can prepare better. The Prime Minister announced this in his opening speech here, and we are working on it, also in cooperation with the Division Association and the DBU.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021142244	Kim Valentin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021142246	Thank you. But that wasn't the answer to what I asked. But I believe that we can get an answer to this if we sit down and talk about it and say that the objective is to find a better solution than what is at present. And, Minister, the infection doesn't come from the superliga model. Some people point to, for example. transport, but transport is not a problem either. We take, for example. The park, the largest stadium in Denmark, there are 3,000 people transported per hour there, but on a normal day-to-day basis it is 30,000, and that is not a problem. So it is neither transport nor the fact that people are inside, there is a problem. Can't we have a meeting about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021142327	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021142328	We can have a meeting. We do this on a regular basis. But promising to hold a meeting on this matter would put people in a position to expect that the infection rates are in a way where the government and health authorities feel safe to open up more, and that is just not the situation we are in. If it is a question of getting the health authorities to explain their reasons, I am sure that we may also be able to do so in writing afterwards. But to tell somebody that right now is the time to open up more would be to stick people to their eyes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021142408	Thank you. Then it's mr. Stén Knuth for the final question. It's 1⁄2 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021142416	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Minister for the answers. Now, if we were to bring some hope to the Division Association for Football and to the fans, the minister could tell us how far down we're going to be infecting before we reopen with this superliga model. Right now it is high, according to what the Minister says and what the Health Authority says, but how far do we really have to go before we can open up again? It's just to give the Division Association and the football players and the football fans the hope that if we land on this pressure, we can get started soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021142455	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021142455-2	This is certainly some of the things the entire government is working together on high pressure in order to be able to give. That is precisely the predictability that I also briefly mentioned to the previous questioner, that is to say, a plan that gives some predictability about what we are doing when. But it's just super complex. It is still a virus that is new and that may surprise, and that is why it is something we are going to do with great caution, but also with great thoroughness, just as we have done so far. I hope that we can continue to work together so that, as soon as the infection rates are low, we can open up again.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021142532	The question is over. We will continue with questions to the Minister for Culture, and continue to be Mr. Stén Knuth asks and Mr. Kim Valentin enquires.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021142540	Here you go, sir. Stén Knuth for reading the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021142544	Thank you for that, President. Will the Minister comment on the evaluation of the 28 professional matches/events held following the decision to extend the superliga model to other sports?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021142553	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021142555	I'd love to, and thank you for the question. And in reality, I would also just like to start by acknowledging here the great work that took place when the superliga scheme was there, and also the great work that is happening every day today.We appreciate the input that we also regularly get from all the players out there, in terms of ideas and problems, and we are very aware of the challenges that you experience across society. To comment briefly on the spread of the superliga scheme, the feedback shows that the scheme was widely used, both in superliga matches, but also in trotting, football in general, handball, hockey, and that the players were generally satisfied with the possibility of extending the superliga scheme to other parts of sport. The operators were pleased to be able to use the scheme; however, they pointed out that it was still difficult to get the economy running around even though there were more spectators at the games. So I am glad that in this way the players in sport have embraced the system and, hopefully, as soon as the infection rates improve, we can return to it. But for now the levels of infection are so high that the health authorities' assessment is clear that we cannot risk bringing so many people together for events with more than 500 people present. Because the higher the rate of infection throughout society, the greater the risk of bringing more people together for example. a football game.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021142730	Sir. Stén Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021142731	Thank you. And thank the Minister for his answer. After all, sport and associations have shown a social spirit, and that is what the Minister himself says. Wherever I go in halls and associations, I am instructed when I do not think, and when I do something that the inspectors have been instructed to correct. Over the summer, we've been discussing whether you couldn't open stadiums and halls anymore, and we agreed on this super league model. It has then been evaluated, and that evaluation came as agreed at the beginning of October. And it shows, as the Minister also says, that a great job has been done out there. But I would like to hear the Minister's reply to a few of these questions which follow on from that evaluation. Wouldn't the Minister tell us how many infected people were during these 28 matches and events? And will the Minister not tell us whether it impresses the government and ministers when we look both at the evaluation and also at the 46 matches that the Division Association has held, i.e. whether it makes no impression on how we deal with this whole area? Just when this whole thing was suspended or suspended, we received a letter from the Ministry saying that the model was now closed, and I asked if it was suspended or suspended, because if we were to close it, we would have to make a new agreement that it would now have to be closed down. But I guess it's only really suspended.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021142914	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021142915	Thank you very much. I'll try to reach all the questions. And then I would just like to say, first of all, that, of course, the report makes an impression. The same is true of the reports of those countries that are currently hit by the second wave of the epidemic and are out in really, really far-reaching decommissioning of their societies. There I see a huge commitment to keep the entire cultural and sports life open as much as possible, so that whether it is football or theatre or whatever you go to that gives your life value, we do everything we can to prevent total decommissioning.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021142954	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021142955	In fact, it is a good idea for my next question, which in turn, like the previous question, is about bringing some hope into our associations and sports world. Because in the Left we actually think that there is no overall plan for when we do what if the pressure of infection moves in that way, that is to say, an overall plan, so that those who are out there can see that there is a hope in getting back to work when the pressure of infection drops.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021143024	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021143026	As mentioned earlier, in his opening speech here on 6 October, the Prime Minister has clearly stated that the government is working to create more predictability about what we can do to deal with the pressure of infection. With the prospect that the pressure of infection over the winter is expected to be at a relatively high level, it is challenging to make such a concrete overall plan for reopening, so that is why we are going to do it with great thoroughness, but also with real, really great commitment. Because we all hope when the infection falls and even more when a vaccine arrives and we can get our vaccine that we can get our sports life back.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021143104	Then it's the co-questioner. Here you go, sir. Kim Valentin, who has 1 minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021143112	Thank you, Mr President. In the Left, we are generally very pleased that we can talk about things in order to keep the infection low in society. We are also pleased with the precautionary principle as long as it does not turn into an ignorance principle. It is of course important that we do everything possible to get our business community, our cultural life to live as normal a life as possible, and I think we can actually agree on that. But the fact that we are not talking about this and meeting and finding out if there are perhaps some better methods is not constructive, I have to say, and it does not work constructively in the industry. I was lucky enough to be invited to a super league game on Sunday, and I just have to say that I got the impression of how this is going on. It's super professional. They've got everything under control. Their protocols are being read by football clubs in the rest of Europe, and UEFA has made rules for it. What does it take to let more people in? What about muzzles, for example??
ParlaMint-DK_20201021143222	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021143223	Thank you very much. I can fully understand the questioner's, the clubs', the fans', and I am just saying the whole of Denmark's frustration now. Because we did as well, and we probably had hoped that if we just kept it, we would have been able to keep as much of our everyday lives as possible, and that is what the government is fighting for. The figures are just not for that right now; no matter how professionally and responsibly people go to it, we must face up to the increasing numbers of infections together and then know and recognise that, although we can negotiate together, we can easily do that, that debate is worth nothing to a virus, because it does not care what agreements we make, it does not care how responsible we behave, because if it can, it still finds a loophole. It's completely irresponsible because it's not people like you and me, people out there, it's a virus. So we have to take this seriously, we cannot negotiate solutions, we can only look after each other, and that is what we are trying to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021143328	Kim Valentin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021143331	Now, unfortunately, the Minister speaks to the fear of man, but I think we should talk to the knowledge that exists in society and then quietly sit down and find a better solution than the one we have today. May I not conclude with a question to which I hope the Minister will agree. May I invite the minister to a super league football match? Will the Minister take a random weekend over the next few days, when the Minister has time, and see a super league match with me?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021143358	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021143400	Thank you very much. Well, the best thing we have to do is define what is, because the best thing in my world, in the government world, is that we take care of the whole of Denmark, that we keep everyday life going as much as possible, and that, unfortunately, also right now, requires that we all, all sectors, suffer some deprivation. It is really, really difficult for restaurants and for companies all around, and I wish I could say that even if I came to a super league match with the questioner, what I would like to do, that would be the solution. But we can't negotiate with this virus.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021143441	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Kim Valentin. Then it's mr. Stén Knuth for the final question, and there is 1⁄2 minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021143446	Thank you. Twenty-four small businesses, i.e. the first division and the super league, have no infection and they cannot understand that they cannot get more spectators into the stadium, even though the virus figures, as the Minister says, are high. There's no virus infection in this area, and that's why there's a big wonder out there that you can't get started. It is true that we must take care of Denmark and that we must take care of all our citizens, but we must also bring hope, and therefore the Left is very concerned that we are making a plan, and it should be a plan now that tells us when we can get started with what and at what levels of infection.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021143527	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021143529	Thank you very much. I am sorry if it is repeated, but as a government we are working on what the Prime Minister promised in the opening speech, and I fully agree with it: we are trying to give more predictability to what it is, we can see what it is, we are learning from neighbouring countries and the like, so that we gather together all the experiences that come from sports clubs, from super-liga matches, from the regime that has been, but also from what is happening in the world, so that we both regain hope and look after each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021143602	The question is over. Thank you, sir. Stén Knuth and to Mr. Kim Valentin as an enquirer. We are going to the last question, which is to the Minister for Culture, and now it is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021143612	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021143615	Thank you. Will the Minister take the initiative to let more spectators go to the stadium for outdoor sports such as: Superliga matches or European football if they comply with the measures described in the so-called superliga scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021143630	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021143633	Thank you very much for the question. As mentioned earlier, there is nothing we in the government would rather than fill the spectators with happy football fans again. But this is a different situation we are in right now than we did over the summer, when the infection was at a very low level. It is no longer, and I understand and the government fully understands the frustration that the superliga regime for the moment has been put out of effect. It was, and is, the current assessment by the health authorities that it would not be healthy to conduct battles with more than 500 people present. So, in order to get back to where we can discuss a reopening, on what grounds and how, we need lower levels of infection and, at the same time, of course, also an assessment by the health authorities that it is once again justifiable and responsible to remove the restrictions we have unfortunately had to reinstate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021143728	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021143729	Thank you for your answer. I agree that we must, of course, be careful in relation to corona, but we must also take care of our sports life, because both are extremely important. That is why, of course, we need to find solutions that can fit into both points of view, and that is something we can actually do. The clubs have shown that it can be done. The target is not full stadiums, but 500, as it is today, does not make sense. When you sit on TV watching a TV game, three out of four stands are empty. I think and hope that the Minister agrees that there is a difference between sitting in an indoor arena as a theatre and being 500, or sitting in the Park, where there is room for 40,000, or at MCH Arena, where there is room for 11,400. Can't you see the sense in trying to differentiate it? Have the clubs not shown that they can actually handle it well, so you take both into account? I hope that the Minister can confirm that the 46 matches under the superliga scheme have actually been shown and that there is indeed an opportunity to deal with this in a good and sound way, so that we can both take care of the fact that there is certainty about going to the stadium without having corona, but, in fact, we also give the clubs the opportunity to have a better economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021143839	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021143840	Thank you very much. In addition to the fact that the super-liga scheme in the early summer and over the summer gave examples of how to conduct events properly, they gave hope for the rest of the sports life, to which it was also just possible to spread, and indeed for the rest of the cultural life, which had also hoped to spread it. So, yes, I look forward to having it spread throughout sports and culture. However, I think that, in the situation we are in now, the assessment by the health authorities must also impress the questioner and the author's party. Doesn't it make an impression to see what's happening in countries very close to right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021143918	Thank you. Dennis Flydtkjær, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021143920	The Corona situation also impresses the Danish People's Party, but it also makes an impression that we have a sport life that suffers. I think you've shown that you can section a stadium in 500. They have their own entrance. You do the virus tracking because the spectators hand over their information and so on. So you've found a really good way to do it. You could supplement it with muzzles. You could demand that they might have an infection stop app on their phone. It is in stark contrast to going to a mall or going to Bilka. Then you can be many more together without any infection detection. Everyone comes in through the same entrance, and there are no same precautions at all. Can the Minister not see that the clubs have actually shown that they can handle it, and should they not be allowed to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021144002	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021144003	Sometimes when we talk about this, it comes to whether or not they deserve it. I would just like to make it clear that I think this is a very dangerous way of talking about it. Because in reality I think that Denmark as a whole deserves to be back to normal everyday life. So when I stand here as Minister of Culture and have to defend the health authorities' assessment, it is, of course, like when the Minister of Business is standing here and defending it against companies too, huge problems in meeting the restrictions right now. It's a balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021144042	Thank you. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021144043	This isn't about who deserves it and who doesn't deserve it. So, all Danes are allowed to live a normal everyday life as far as possible, with respect for the corona situation we are in. However, when the clubs have actually shown the way, it does not make sense for stadiums to be empty on three out of four stands. When you have a super league game, it's 500, but it's including players, judges and coaches and all sorts, so the number of spectators is down to 300 or below in stadiums where there can be room for 40,000 and where you could easily sit on every other chair or on every other row. I think it's a little funny, why you can't look at the graded amount that there's a difference, of course, whether it's a stadium for 40,000 or it's a stadium for 500. Could the Minister not agree to a differentiated solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20201021144125	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021144125-2	Thank you very much. We are certainly trying in government and I also know that health authorities are looking for the different conditions that exist in different sectors. But if you saw, for example... Looking at what's happening around us, there are many countries • Spain, Great Britain, Portugal, the Czech Republic, Romania • that have all completely closed to spectators. Elsewhere, Sweden, there is a maximum. number of 50. In Norway it is 600 in sections a 200. So there are different ways to do this. I am actually glad that we still have the opportunity to allow 500 in, and I hope that the infection will also allow us to continue to do so. Because that's the way we want to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021144207	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, thank you to the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20201021144223	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday, October 22, 2020, at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I shall refer to the agenda which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
