ParlaMint-DK_20200402100037	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: The Prime Minister (Mette Frederiksen) has informed me that she wishes to do so pursuant to Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Folketing a written statement on the Kingdom Community 2020. R 12). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. It will be announced at a later date when the statement will be debated.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402100103	The items listed as No. 1-3 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402100115	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402100142	For the sake of voting in this Parliament, it is probably most appropriate to have a possible discussion here at second reading and not in the middle of the votes where people are standing out there in the Wandering Hall. This proposal is, of course, a proposal which we can support on a long stretch, which we can support on a long stretch. As I said at first reading, we would be happy to send out a signal that the exploitation of the corona crisis and the theft of protective equipment for own gain are unsolidarous and anti-social behaviour, which cannot be taken seriously enough away from. It is only solidarity between people that can prevent this crisis from costing even more lives than it is imposed on us by the very nature of the disease. Solidarity and cohesion are the prerequisites for getting out of the crisis, not least for the most disadvantaged and most vulnerable groups in our society. I think that is an important starting point for further work. So we support essential parts of this bill. We support punishment for organised theft of protective equipment. We support punishment for abuse of the aid packages, which cynically, because they can get large subsidies from society on faith and laws, abuse it to get an unjustified gain at the expense of others. We would like to see further progress being made. We have just heard today that there is a 400-800 per cent. increase in raw materials for the production of hand alcohol. Perhaps that was something we could also look at, i.e. how certain traders use this situation in a completely unbearable way for their own gain. Against this background, it would be obvious to vote in favour of the proposal, but we cannot. We shall vote against it. And why do we do that? We do this because the government has elected the government Something emerged from the original proposal: violent punishment for minor wrongdoing, for example. rape and, by the way, it's already illegal, but okay, maybe we could have ignored or found some solution to that. But then, during the committee procedure, we have also chosen to tighten up the immigration legislation. Excuse me, what does the alien law have to do with this? It is recognized by the government that the tightening up of immigration legislation is of very limited practical importance. If it has a very limited meaning, why do you make it? Yeah, you can think about that. I think it is because, like the Danish People's Party and at least Mrs Inger Støjberg from the Left, we want to take advantage of every opportunity, including this opportunity, to identify immigrants as a problem, even though there is no evidence at all that immigrants in this case should pose any problem whatsoever, more than Danes. Yet you choose to focus on immigrants. Why do you choose to do that focus? The only idea in people's minds is to create a link between crime in terms of protective equipment and immigrants. We think it's, to put it bluntly, disgusting. We have seen examples of adoptive children from Asia who have been yelled at and harassed, on the grounds that they should have a special responsibility for the corona crisis. By suddenly interfering with the law of foreigners into this, even something which, in the government's own words, has very limited practical significance, there is one purpose: to create divisions. There is one single purpose: to create divisions. We find it unpleasant; we do not participate in it. Could the government still have received support for most of its legislation? Yeah, they could. We have offered the government that a division of the proposal could be made. That's what you do in other areas, sir. Peter Hummelgaard, the Minister of Labour, confirms where a division is made, so it could have been done here. But the government has refused to do so. The government has refused to make a division. Because if there had been a division, we could have voted for some parts of it and not for other parts of it. It is, of course, the responsibility of the government that they have done so together with the parties that are in charge of that line. We do not want to support that. We do not want to support the division of society. We want to support the unity of society against the Corona crisis, we want to support solidarity, and that is why we are voting against this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402100628	A brief comment from Mr. Jeppe Bruus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402100639	- Sir... Søren Søndergaard confirm that in the course of this committee we have done what we could, on the part of the Social Democratic Party, to vote through that legislation with the widest possible majority and then make a separate emergency law based on the amendments that are coming? In other words, as the rapporteur says, the government has not denied it. On the contrary, the government has worked actively to ensure that we had two different legislative proposals discussed today. - Sir... Søren Søndergaard does not confirm that this is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20200402100722	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402100723	I can confirm that the government has agreed to an amendment I think it was from the Danish People's Party to include the Aliens Act. I can confirm that the government has refused to accept an amendment from the Enhedslisten, supported by others, about a limit, in relation to when the punishments would apply. And I can confirm that there would be. And then the government must tell, or the Social Democracy must tell, why the Social Democracy then did not use the majority that was to ensure a division of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402100804	Sir. Jep Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402100806	But now I know both Enhedslisten and the rapporteur as honourable people. And what the rapporteur has said here on the platform is actually wrong. It is simply wrong. Søren Søndergaard did not correct it, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard has stood and said on the platform?
ParlaMint-DK_20200402100829	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402100830	Why isn't the bill split? The government is in favour of dividing up the bill, I understand, the Social Democrats are in favour of dividing up the bill, a majority in the Folketing are in favour of dividing up the bill. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20200402100845	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402100848	Thank you. And thank you for an interesting speech by the rapporteur, I think, on behalf of the Enhedslisten. We have two starting points, I think, and one is that it is actually very justified to take action against those who use the Corona crisis to commit crime and in this way harm other people, such as myself. must use the protective equipment that is stolen. What the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten suddenly goes into is calling this proposal disgusting. That is a disgusting proposal, that is what I hear, Mr President. Søren Søndergaard say. I think there's something going on there. Our call is for the Enhedslisten to be minded here and for other parties to be minded and to support a proposal that aims to ensure, in this crisis, that people who commit crime are given the brunt of the crisis. Well, then I'd like to ask Mr. Søren Søndergaard on expulsion, for it is also one of the things Mr. Søren Søndergaard mentions here. Is it not very reasonable that if you take advantage of this crisis as a foreign national in Denmark to commit this kind of crime, you should be expelled? Would it not really be something that gives a signal that is unmistakable?
ParlaMint-DK_20200402101003	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402101005	The disgusting thing is to bring foreign law into this in general. It is clear that when you make a punishment that means that people for this crime are going to jail, it also means that it is clear from the Aliens Act that foreigners who violate this law will be expelled to a greater extent. This is clear from the existing legislation, and we have said that is a consequence. We are opposed to the existing immigration legislation, but we accept that it is there. However, using this situation specifically to focus on foreign law seems totally unacceptable to us. It's like if you focused on redheads or on all sorts of other people. There's no need for that. It only has the function of turning this into a discussion about foreigners. And then we just have to say that there is no evidence that foreigners and we are talking about that this will include people who, as far as I understand from the Minister of Justice, have lived in Denmark for a considerable number of years... have to be designated as scapegoats in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402101112	Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402101114	I don't think anyone makes the mistake of identifying someone as a scapegoat, but we have a natural desire in the Folketing when we want to take action against this corona crime, to come all the way around. And there I just do not understand that Enhedslisten does not say that of course we have to go all the way around, and that of course it is also an important signal sent to foreigners, which is then done, after the Minister of Justice has said that the government would like to support this amendment by the Danish People's Party and the New Citizens' Party, because then you will also take action against foreigners who might take advantage of this crisis. And there I do not understand that Enhedslisten does not just say: Yes, of course it is an important signal to send. Why don't you do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200402101154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402101155	Sir. Peter Skaarup completely ignores the fact that foreigners are judged just like Danes. Foreigners also receive a quadruple of fines, foreigners also go to prison, just like Danes, with the legislation in place. We do not need to change the law on foreigners for that. On top of that, there is a special penalty for foreigners who then go to prison because they are also being sentenced to expulsion. In addition, you want to make a symbolic change to the law on foreigners, and the Danish People's Party and Mrs Inger Støjberg can do so together with the Social Democracy, because the Enhedslisten does not participate in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402101232	Then it's Mrs. Inger Støjberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402101234	Of course, I also feel just called upon to make a few comments along the way, in that Mr. Søren Søndergaard, as I heard, described my policy and that of the Left as disgusting. I must say that I strongly reject it, but it is often the case for Mr. Søren Søndergaard, when he stands here on the platform. The last time we discussed this bill, it was about something completely different. There it was about enrichment through e.g. hand alcohol, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard claimed that the Left should go and steal here in the Assembly Hall. I hope so too, sir. Søren Søndergaard will take a strong stand against, that is, from those statements, in that it was not true. But my question to Mr. Søren Søndergaard is actually: Søren Søndergaard not that one has a special obligation as a foreigner in Denmark to behave correctly and not to commit crime? And so, is it not appropriate to have the attitude that we now have, that we should then of course be severely punished, also as a foreigner?
ParlaMint-DK_20200402101343	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402101344	So, we think everyone should behave properly: redheads, foreigners, Danes, Muslims, Jews, Christians, atheists, members of the Enhedslisten, etc. And that is why, of course, they must be punished. Of course they must be punished, but they will be, and if you are a foreigner, you will get an extra penalty. That was in the law that was there, namely that you would be expelled if you were given a prison sentence. But what is also being done is to go in and change the law on foreigners and focus on the law on foreigners in an area of very limited importance. Yeah, I personally think that's disgusting. I would just like to say to Mrs Inger Støjberg: I have never accused any members of the Left of stealing or any members of the Folketing of stealing; that is simply not correct and Mrs Inger Støjberg can go back and see my rapporteurs and see that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402101437	Mrs. Inger Støjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402101438	I'm afraid I've been studying sir. Søren Søndergaard's speeches and speeches are, in my opinion, ample. Having said that, I would just like to say that I believe and the Left believe that, as a foreigner in Denmark, if you are not a Danish citizen, you obviously have a special obligation to behave properly. If you are in Denmark as a foreigner, if you are here as a guest, you have a special obligation to behave properly. I can only say that Mr. Søren Søndergaard didn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402101512	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402101513	After all, Mrs Inger Støjberg cannot see this when I have just said that I am in favour of the punishment of foreigners. Foreigners who commit crime in Denmark must be punished. They must be penalised in accordance with current legislation, and we are even in the process of deciding that they must be punished much harder, even with the result that they may risk smoking out of the country. That's what we're saying. We're on it. But to go in and specifically change the law on foreigners to something that has one, and I quote again from the Minister's answer to question 23, very limited practical significance, is to distort this discussion to something quite different from what it is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402101547	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402101548	Thank you for the floor. Sir. Søren Søndergaard asks why the bill is not divided and hascelerated to the government because the bill is not divided. But Mr. Søren Søndergaard knows very well that the government wanted the proposal to be divided. It was the rest of us who did not want it, because we think it is quite reasonable that the punishment imposed on the population can be felt and that if the foreigners who have come here and live here under the conditions that are now involved, they abuse aid packages if they steal protective equipment or otherwise commit corona-related crime, that must of course mean that their residence permit is withdrawn. But sir... Søren Søndergaard does not confirm that when there is no division of the bill, it is because there simply were not enough mandates for it? The government wanted to, but there were not enough mandates for it, and that is how democracy works.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402101648	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402101649	I can confirm that the mandates that were lacking were the mandates of the Social Democratic Party. I can fully confirm that. Those were the only mandates that were missing. If the Social Democratic Party had been in favour of a division, there would have been a division. We are not in a situation where the bourgeois have a majority here in the Folketing, fortunately for that. So the social democracy and the government were in a situation where you could choose, and that was what you did.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402101713	Mrs Pernille Vermund for a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402101719	Now I simply have to ask: is it not the case that it is not a simple majority, but that it is three-quarters of the Folketing that is needed when we are talking about urgent legislation? Sir, I'm afraid so. Søren Søndergaard could answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402101733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402101734	However, the government could have said that it would have voted against the proposal. In other words, the government could have clearly said that it was opposed to that proposal. What's gonna happen is you vote for it. One can, of course, vote in favour of an amendment and take it out, it is possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402101751	Then I think we're gonna say thank you to sir. Søren Søndergaard, as there are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Jeppe Bruus as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402101810	Thank you for the floor. The legislative proposal we are about to adopt is, in fact, another piece of Danish history. I think that these are always historic times when you step on this platform and legislation is passed in this Chamber, but yet it is no secret that we are in a very special time of a historic health crisis not only in Denmark but throughout the world. That is why it is also admirable, I think, for all of us, that the whole of Denmark is standing together to get through this crisis. The same is true of the Folketing, where we have unanimously adopted legislation that provides authorities with the tools to deal with the crisis, to look after our healthcare professionals, to look after vulnerable citizens in this society, with the aim of protecting and ensuring that the least possible experience of having to go through this disease and that we suffer the least possible loss. That is why we have also jointly adopted large aid packages that help companies and employees to the best of their ability through the crisis, even if it takes courage. And we have done so in agreement. There are many discussions about the basis on which we stand. The fact is that we are on a basis where none of those who preceded us have been in the same situation. And it takes courage to make decisions, great decisions, and we do not always have the privilege that someone has tried it before, nor do we have complete evidence of the decisions we make. But we still meet them from the best of our ability to look after society, to take care of our weakest, and I think there is every reason to pay tribute to that. It also shows that the Danish model, which is the whole essence of the social model we have, works: we listen to each other, we act together, we have the courage to make decisions, the courage to compromise. Although we are all doing what we can and, by far, the vast majority of Danes are incredibly civilised in these days, there are a few individual stray vessels that are still trying to exploit the situation, trying to enrich themselves at the expense of others and at the expense of the community and enriching themselves in a situation where we are in a truly unique historical situation. We'd like to take a hard look at that. We would like to send out a signal that we are firmly opposed to this. So far, so good. So far, there have not been many cases of crime related to covid-19, but it's also not the point of this law that it's necessarily going to be used a lot. Hopefully it's going to be one of the laws that's being used as little as possible. The fact that we now both take a strong stand, but also tighten up the penalties considerably, can both help to deter some, but can actually also help to ensure that those who then hurry to do so will also feel a severe consequence. If it were for the Social Democratic Party and as a government, we would also have succeeded in bringing together the whole parliament behind this bill. At first reading a week ago it appeared that we would probably succeed in doing so, perhaps with the exception of the Radical Left. Otherwise, it actually looked like we could have gotten everyone behind this bill. I thought that was a good thing, and both myself and the Minister for Justice made it clear that the initiative for this bill came initially from the Party of the Left, quickly backed by the Danish People's Party, which wanted an emergency law with stricter penalties for crime related to the covid-19. We were in agreement on this, as we thought it was a good idea, and that is why the end of a meeting last Monday with all the legal rapporteurs and the Minister for Justice, where we discussed this situation, was that we agreed that we are now making urgent legislation and putting it forward for discussion on Thursday, that is to say a week ago. After the first reading, the Danish People's Party and New Citizens have tabled amendments to the law, which will mean that we also change the law on foreigners and, as we have already discussed here a little, this means that even more of those who commit really hard crime and who are not caught by the current immigration legislation will also be able to be expelled. We can support that on the part of the Social Democrats, because we agree with that. What would already happen with the legislative proposal we had before the amendments was, in fact, that we changed something from fines to prison sentences, which also meant that people would be able to be expelled. And we agree with the tightening up of the amendment, because it must of course be the case that if you commit serious crime and there is a basis for it to lead to expulsion, then people must be expelled. In the course of the debate we had in the Committee on Legal Affairs last week, it soon became clear that these amendments would mean that it would face opposition from a number of parties, including the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. And as Mr. Søren Søndergaard has said here from the platform, it has been the decisive reason why Enhedslisten cannot support this bill, but ends up voting against it. I would like to stress that I am sorry, because contrary to what Mr. Søren Søndergaard stood and said here, who was a fake, that we wanted, from the government and from the Social Democrats, to deal urgently with two legislative proposals today. This is about the bill that we first dealt with on Thursday, and then we have offered to the parties to make a separate emergency law based on an amendment that came from the New Civil and Danish People's Party. We have clearly offered that, but there was no majority in favour of it, among other things. because it requires a three-quarters majority for urgent procedure and that majority was not there. Since we are able to support those amendments, we had to sort out the estate and say that it was not possible to do so, and I would like to regret that. A week ago, I and the Minister for Justice, as I said, the Left and the Danish People's Party, praised the initiative for this law, and it must also be appropriate today to express disappointment that the two parties were not willing to seek that compromise, that is to say to have two different legislative proposals that could actually have been implemented; one with the widest possible majority, probably with the support of the Enhedslisten, and the other with a rather smaller majority behind it. That would have been a model which would have meant that it would not have changed anything in its contents. We would have liked that, and we would have worked loyally and hard for that, but it has not been possible to do so, and that is the logic of the mandates, and that is why we are here today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402102538	There is a brief comment to be made to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402102542	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to take this opportunity to thank the Social Democratic Party for supporting the amendment tabled by the DF and the New Citizens' Party that the foreigners who commit this very serious crime should also be expelled now. I appreciate that, and I am not just happy for it on my own behalf, but I am particularly happy for it on behalf of Denmark. I think there are a lot of Danes out there who think it is quite reasonable that if you come to Denmark and have the opportunity to live here with all the benefits that it now offers, and then you commit so serious and cynical crime at a time like the one we are living in now, then of course you have to lose your residence permit. So thank you to the Social Democratic Party for supporting that proposal. We're really happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402102634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402102635	I thought it was more of a comment than a question, so I nodded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402102642	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402102645	I would also like to thank the Socialists for supporting the amendment that came from the New Civil and Danish People's Party, because we think it is so important to send strong signals to citizens coming from other countries that they should behave properly if they come to Denmark. That is why it is absolutely essential for a proposal like this to come through, and I really do not understand the irritation or adjectives used by the Enhedslisten and the Radicals and other parties, and then they reproach this proposal, because it is obviously important that it is a clear signal to be sent, for example. gang members who are not Danish citizens, that if they take advantage of this situation, it has a cost. That is why it is also positive that the government will not be afraid of its own shadow in this matter, because it is possible to do so in its efforts to make some divisions which we think are wrong at a time when we have urgent legislation and have not had a tradition of making divisions; that is to say, that we are firmly committed to implementing the policy that we now agree on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402102756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402102757	So let me just sign for both the Danish People's Party and for the New Citizens' Party we agree completely, in other words in relation to if you commit serious crime. What is the point is that with the law we would have passed without the amendments, it was the case that if you have been here for less than five years, you would have been able to be expelled if you were given a prison sentence. And with the amendment that is being proposed, yes, we are then beyond the five-year limit based on a number of criteria, and we fully agree with that. And that is why we have no problem at all in supporting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402102835	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402102839	Thank you. I mean, I think what we are experiencing here is such a very good illustration and much better than my rapporteur's speech what has happened. And I'd like that, sir. Jeppe Bruus confirms that if the Social Democratic Party had not voted in favour of the Danish People's Party's amendment, then this would not have happened. Then you could have put forward a new law, if that was what you wanted, together with the Danish People's Party and New Citizens and those with whom you stand together in this area.Of course you could have done that, but then you would have secured a broad consensus on this legislation, which contains punishment for all, both Danes and foreigners • both Danes and foreigners. But you chose something else. But I'd like to ask, sir. Jep Bruus to confirm that it was the vote of the Social Democrats in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights which just ensured that the broad support for this bill no longer exists.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402102934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402102936	Well, I'm not going to confirm that at all. Well, that's a fake speech again. I don't remember if Mr. Cole... Søren Søndergaard was present at the committee meeting we had, but Mrs. Rosa Lund was there, and then Mr. Søren Søndergaard, go back and check. That's what Mr. Søren Søndergaard does not tell us that it was true that we could have voted against it, and then there would have been no majority in favour of that amendment, and we could also have made a new law, but we could not have had it dealt with urgently and so on, because there was no majority in favour of it. So that is another false speech, and I will not confirm it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402103012	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402103014	So that's it, sir. Jeppe Bruus says that if you hadn't got it into this legislation, i.e. if the Social Democracy, the Left, the Danish People's Party and New Citizens hadn't got it into it, that's it, sir. Jeppe Bruus says?
ParlaMint-DK_20200402103034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402103035	Yes, what I am saying is that we, like the Social Democratic Party and as a government, offered the Danish People's Party, the Left and the New Citizens to make two urgent legislations today. One was this proposal without those amendments, and the other was urgent legislation based on those amendments. That's the offer we made. That's what we've been working for. There could not be a majority in favour of this, sir. Søren Søndergaard, for there was no majority to make urgent legislation with it. That is the logic of the mandates in the Folketing. And that is what our committee meetings were about and not about what Mr. Søren Søndergaard said before.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402103114	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to say that, although this is a somewhat heated and fundamental debate, we must be careful what words we use about each other, such as. False speech. It's close to being something I don't think is appropriate. In the absence of any further brief comments, we shall proceed to Mrs Inger Støjberg as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402103140	Thank you. I would like to say a lot of thanks for the broad support for this legislative proposal, as there is, of course, and also for the fact that the government took it so positively, when we on the Left said about a week and a half ago that we thought it was necessary to tighten up in this area, because we are in the middle of a time of crisis, whether we are in the middle of it, we do not really know, but we are at least in a time of crisis. This calls for some very special measures, and it does so in the area of crime. After all, we must prepare ourselves not only for what we have already seen, but also, of course, for what we can see with regard to people who are quite cynically exploiting the situation we are in. I myself think that this bill has been improved over time, including with the amendment tabled by the Danish People's Party and the New Citizens' Party, and that is of course why we support it. Because I believe that, in principle, and we in the Left believe that, in principle, if you are a foreigner, you obviously have a very special obligation not to commit crime when you are in Denmark. That is why it is only right and proper that there should also be clear tightenings in this area. So it was really just a big thank you to a very broad majority here in the Folketing, which supports this proposal. I think we have had a good process on this. It is clear that opinions are being broken, and they are doing so especially in an area like this. That is what we are witnessing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402103340	A brief comment on Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402103341	Thank you. And thank you to the Left for supporting the amendment tabled by the New Citizen together with the DF, which tightens the penalties for foreigners and means that the foreigners who have been here for a long time will in fact also be expelled when they are convicted of these gross and cynical forms of crime at a time which, of course, puts the Danes extremely under pressure, and when we are more dependent than ever, at least in my lifetime, on each other's trust and that we are all looking after each other. So thank you very much to Mrs Inger Støjberg for lifting the tab and fighting this case and getting the whole Left on it. We're really happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402103428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402103430	I think most of all it was a comment, but a very kind one, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402103436	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And then it's sir. Peter Skaarup, who has asked to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402103451	Like Mrs Inger Støjberg and others, I would like to thank you for a good run on this bill that is now on the table. As we also announced at first reading, we in the Danish People's Party have attached great importance to the fact that we are sending out signals that are not misunderstood at a time when we are very dependent on all Danes supporting the policy we have in Denmark and the initiatives taken by the government and the parties of the Danish Parliament to help our older fellow citizens and chronically ill above the great challenge of the Corona. That is why it is important that we take action against those who abuse the confidence that such a crisis requires of us all. Having said that, it is also the case that the Danish People's Party, like other parties, announced some amendments at first reading, and when we are going to settle the situation in relation to the austerity we would have liked to see in the government's legislative proposal, some significant tightenings have taken place overall. That's a good thing. Some of them come from the government itself, for example, about attacks on public employees, and we think that is positive, and we should follow up on that later, too, we hope in the Danish People's Party. We are also pleased that we have succeeded in obtaining a majority in favour of tightening up expulsions, because it is so important that when you come to Denmark you behave properly. The fact that you come to Denmark and think you have to have some kind of very positive treatment, we get away from it if we say that it is a requirement that you behave properly. And we're sending a signal that resonates in some of these environments that if you don't behave properly, you can't stay in Denmark as a foreigner. So there are limits to our hospitality, and that is what we are showing with this proposal. If I were to refer to the proposals that the government did not succeed in adopting, then it is a matter of tightening up if it is established gangs, that is, organised crime, that are behind it, and that is where we would have liked to give it an extra tooth. For example, if you sell these goods as one, let's say thieves get hold of it can be large amounts of handshake, or whatever it is, then we would also like to see a prison sentence for the store owner who is active in some kind of fence business. So there are some points here where we would have liked to have gone further. But we are satisfied with what the government has come up with and can be involved in, and then we have to see how long this crisis is going to last and whether there is a need to tighten up some things in the legislative proposal that lies. We will vote in favour of the draft law and, of course, we will also vote in favour of the amendments on which we have had an influence.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402103804	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is actually Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, but we are letting Mrs Pernille Vermund, who is a little injured, come first. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402103833	Thank you, and I'm sorry. Today we decide to tighten up the penalties for criminals who use the corona crisis to commit crime. Thus, at a time when the whole of society is at its knees and when everyone is making sacrifices, it is an extreme insult to the community that some people steal the scarce equipment, exploit the weak and the elderly by impersonating themselves as health workers to defraud the elderly of their money or commit other crime in the shadow of the crisis. I and New Citizens think it is quite reasonable to tighten up the penalties, but we have also pressed for foreigners who commit corona-related crime to be expelled, of course. We simply will not put up with criminal foreigners who abuse the Danes' confidence and patience in committing crime. The government has been responsive and there is now a majority behind our amendments. It is therefore written into the law that, regardless of how long they have been in this country, foreigners can be expelled if they are sentenced to a sentence of liberty, according to the stricter rules on corona-related crime. It has been a collaboration between New Citizens and DF, where Mr. Peter Skaarup and I have had close contact since the first reading last Thursday to get the government and the Left to introduce the expulsion provisions into the legislation. Both the Minister of Justice, sir. Nick Hækkerup, and the Left rapporteur, Mrs Inger Støjberg, has been persuaded, and this is now a joint amendment supported by both the government and the bourgeois parties. DF and New Citizens are far from agreeing on everything, but I am glad that we can work together in the Danish Parliament to get some concrete agreements that draw the legislation in the right direction through for the benefit of the Danes. Although this draft law extends the scope for expelling criminal foreigners to a greater extent, it certainly does not solve all the problems of criminal foreigners. Firstly, it only covers certain Corona-related crimes, and secondly, expulsion should not automatically apply to EU citizens either. Thirdly, the stricter rules are still subject to conventions such as the European Convention on Human Rights and the decisions of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Both the government and the Left insisted on that. The trees do not grow into the sky, but I am glad that the recognition that criminal foreigners should not be allowed to be in Denmark at all has now spread to a majority of the Folketing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402104142	Thank you to the rapporteur, and then it is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402104154	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to add a few words to this bill. This has led to a huge debate, at least in some places, about whether it is okay to tighten up the penalties in this area. Among other things: the Court of Justice has been out to say that there are plenty of possibilities in the legislation already. I would agree with them on this point, namely that there are opportunities for punishment, but I also agree with Professor Jørgen Vestergaard, who says that it is actually okay to send out a political signal that one would like to go in a particular direction in criminal terms. In fact, I find it extremely reprehensible to take advantage of the situation of covid-19 to commit crime, and I think that some of the examples we have seen have been rather glaring, among other things. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. I also think it makes sense to tighten up a great deal in relation to the misuse of aid packages. I hear the first rumors from the transport industry that there are companies that send their employees home with pay packages and then hire foreign workers via mailbox companies. If it turns out to be right, we can actually come after them with what's on the table here. I have received a clear answer from the Minister for Justice to that and it is clear that we will not tolerate this kind of thing. So I actually think it is appropriate to increase the penalties in a number of areas here. But we also said clearly in the SF that we were not ready to put people in prison for nailing a single hand spirit, and fortunately we have also found a common footbeat about that so much thanks for it! Then there is a sunset clause on the proposal, there is a review in November, we will have status reports on how things are going; how things are going in this area. These are all very good things that we will, of course, follow very, very closely. Then there has been a majority for two extra things SF has emphasized: Bribery will also be included in this proposal.That was the wish of Transparency Denmark, which monitors corruption in Denmark.Fortunately, there has also been a majority for that, just as there has also been a majority in favour of including hacking. Then there is the tension between foreigners, which the Minister says does not really matter. So we are voting against it, and we are doing so from the point of view of the fact that it is symbolic legislation that is so possible to demonstrate already with the rules we have. You could say, like Enhedslisten, that we are not on the bill at all. However, we choose to vote against the amendment and do not think it is of any practical importance, because now we have a single legislative package which will enable us to take a hard step, and there will probably also be deported if crime is serious enough and the link with Denmark is very small and all the general rules are very small. So we would also like to thank you for a sensible process and to thank you for the fact that there are so many of us who are united in it. I could have avoided Enhedslisten for this bill to be split up, but unfortunately there was no majority for that. We supported that opportunity, and we thought it would have been pretty if we could have included Enhedslisten in this proposal too, as Enhedslisten agreed with the rest.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402104540	I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402104542	Thank you for supporting this proposal. I think it is good that the SF ends up supporting the proposal for tightening up in relation to corona crime and higher penalties, among others. double sentence. I would just like to ask the SF's rapporteur, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, if this is the case: when the rapporteur says that the part that is about a tightening of foreigners, as is mentioned, in other words, a tightening up of the rules on expulsion, is just a symbolic policy, how does that fit in with the Socialist rapporteur's speech? It was, of course, an important proposal; it is important that we take action against those who have been in Denmark for a little longer and have thus been able to stay here, and we will not tolerate it if they go and commit crime and exploit the crisis around corona in the way that one can imagine it will happen from, for example, the United Kingdom. The side of gang-related gang members. How does that harmonize? Is it symbolic policy, and does it have no meaning, as the SF says, or is it actually something that matters, because that is what the Socialists say?
ParlaMint-DK_20200402104654	Thank you. Then we'll get answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402104655	I can rely on the answer given by the Minister for Justice, who says that it has little practical significance, and it has to stand up to believers in terms of how this is to be understood. We're gonna say no to that. We think that, in this way, there are excellent rules for expulsion in the legislation already today. They are also, I think, perfectly suitable for this purpose. So it's gonna be a no from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402104722	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402104723	That is just not what I asked, because I asked about it that the Socialists from the platform say that it is actually important that we take action in this way with regard to those who are foreigners and abuse the situation by means of some tightening of the rules on expulsion. And that's what I'm asking, how do these two things harmonize? Because it is practical with the step-up model, which is that it has an effect when we make it clear that even if you have been in Denmark for a little longer, you can also be expelled on the basis of this bill. That is what is happening now with the draft law and the amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402104803	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402104804	Well, I am not going to interpret what the Social Democrats have to say. I have read the answer to the question itself, where Mr. Peter Skaarup or New Civil servants I cannot really remember asking about the expulsion rules, and it says that it has virtually no meaning, no practical significance, and that is what I am referring to. That is the answer I have received from the Minister for Justice, and I have to assume that is what applies.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402104827	Then we have a question from Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402104831	There has been a lot of talk about this with a small limit on hand-shooting rapes, and I would like to hear the SF rapporteur understand the contribution of the report: whether it applies only to staff or whether it applies to patients as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402104856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402104857	I understand the contribution of the report in such a way that it also applies to patients. In answer to question No. Ninety-one, for example, says: is applicable to healthcare professionals, including patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402104910	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402104913	I would like to thank the SF rapporteur for trying to give everyone the opportunity to participate in the parts of what they agreed with. Other parties did not, but I thank you for that. I would really like to ask the SF's rapporteur what the SF's rapporteur thinks is the reason why we insist so much that the broad consensus is lost, on a proposal that we write ourselves has no practical significance. What does the SF's rapporteur really think is why the government insists so much on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200402104955	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402104956	I think that is a question that must be addressed to the Minister for Justice, but I know that the Minister for Justice has at least tried to divide up the bill, and unfortunately there has not been any support for that. Personally, I find that very unfortunate. I could have avoided Enhedslisten, that they could be part of this proposal, because I know that Enhedslisten has been very much in agreement with much of the matter in this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402105021	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402105023	I should also like to ask the Social Democrats, but it might well be that the SF's rapporteur had a thought about how it might be that one insists on a proposal to that extent because one might have failed to vote in favour of the Danish People's Party's amendment. It almost seems like you've been interested in getting this confrontation and getting an alliance, and that's what we have succeeded in doing. So, the alliance between the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Inger Løjberg, the Danish People's Party and New Citizens is quite clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402105100	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402105102	Well, actually, I don't think it's a question I can answer that way. However, I think it is very obvious that the Minister for Justice has wanted to include a large number of parties, and this has meant that the bill has come to look a little different than it originally did. I think it is a pity that there are parties in here who have not wanted to share in dividing it up; I think it was a service that could be provided so that as many of us as possible could be involved in this bill, which I think is both right and important.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402105130	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks, and then it is Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402105151	We have to stand together, we have to look out for each other, we have to look out for Denmark. You hear that from wall to wall. We agree on this, and I think it is actually a good thing that the people are doing, that business is doing and that politicians in general are doing so here in Denmark. These are special times and we are in a situation where we in the Folketing have adopted a number of very far-reaching proposals. In many ways with good reason, but it always puts us in the dilemma that we must be both vigorous and thoughtful at the same time and often in a very short time. And that's not an easy challenge. L 157, which we have here, is a good example. Several of the rapporteurs say that it should send out signals, but the most important thing about what we are doing at the moment is to solve problems, because we have some very major problems that require us to find good solutions. The President of the Court of Justice, Mikael Sjöberg, has been out to say that we are in an acute health crisis, but has also asked whether we are also in an acute crime crisis? I think that question is relevant to consider. After all, we are seeing the news ticking in that, on the contrary, it may also affect criminals, and we can only be happy about that. That is why I think we should look at what we are doing here. We would like to send out signals, as the rapporteurs say, that we are taking this seriously. Of course, action must be taken if corona-related crime is committed, and the Court of Justice says so too, namely that this is already going to happen with the current legislation. One might also ask whether it is necessarily worse for the individual that corona-related crime is committed than cancer-related crime or HIV-related crime or other forms of serious disease-related crime, which people are dying of. I also think it is a pity when we hear the debate here today that there is not enough listening to each other. When we are in this situation of urgent legislation, major legislative proposals, it is even more important that we are there and are aware of each other. I think it is a pity to see the big parties squeeze the small ones. I think it is particularly regrettable that large opposition parties squeeze a small support party. This is to be understood in the sense that opposition parties may quickly need the votes of a small supporting party on a later occasion, which is why it is a short-term pleasure to humiliate a smaller supporting party when you are a larger opposition party. I think that the Left and the Danish People's Party should have acted wiser in this matter, and I understand that the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Jeppe Bruus, perhaps had a little difficulty finding a grime that might fit, for I understood it as such that the Social Democrats had wanted to give the concession to the Enhedslisten, and I would probably also have had difficulty if I had stood here and received the, excuse the expression, Judahskys, which a couple of rapporteurs delivered to Mr. Jeppe Bruus, because I did not really think that was appropriate or appropriate in view of the seriousness of the situation. We must stand together in this, but we must also remember that in the long run we must also stand together in our people's rule. We need to stand together about our legal certainty, we need to stand together about our quality of law, which may not be as relevant as this bill, but we really need to stand together about our economy when we look forward to things. Unfortunately, I think that the process of this proposal might well have required a little more cohesion and a little more desire to mark its own already developed political views. It would have dressed up for our people's rule. On the whole, one can say that much of this bill could perhaps have just given a very quiet and regular treatment in the Folketing, perhaps one could let it go a little faster than the months and years it may sometimes take, but it is a process that could have taken a month, or whatever, without smoking anything at all. We do not have a crime crisis, we have a health crisis, and let us stand together to resolve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402105651	There are brief comments. First, it is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402105655	Thank you. The rapporteur says that we do not have a crime crisis, and it is true that crime has generally fallen in these weeks because activity in society has fallen. On the other hand, new crime has flourished, and it is crime that is linked to the Corona situation we are facing today. We have seen the first examples of this, and I am afraid that the very, very large aid packages that we have negotiated and which we support throughout the Folketing will be the next ones to be subject to speculation and fraud, etc. Does the rapporteur really not think, given that we are in this extreme situation, which has meant that we are going to throw billions into society, that it actually requires an extra tight hand over the billions, and that if you violate the law, it must also be punished more severely?
ParlaMint-DK_20200402105807	Thank you. Then we'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402105808	In fact, I believe that responsibility must be taken, even in the situation where many billions of people are being thrown into society, in terms of how to look after them. One of my main points in the speech that I have just made was that if one had now shown a little more consideration for one another, if one had wanted to bet on what was relevant, to bet on the quality of the law, then one might have found one another in a wall-to-wall agreement on these subjects. In any case, it is my own belief that it could have been done. But Mrs Pernille Vermund could not, as often before, give up the temptation to make it all about foreign policy, because that is what this is about when Mrs Pernille Vermund wakes up in the morning and when Mrs Pernille Vermund goes to bed at night. I just think that this should be about the health crisis we are facing, and not about the New Citizens' Party programme.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402105856	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402105858	Yes, but now I'm in the Folketing, and so are New Citizens, because we have a political agenda. We have some concerns about how our society should develop, and it would be really, really strange if we did not use the eyes we are looking at society in this situation. I mean, were we just supposed to be voting cattle for a government? That is, of course, something contrary to the idea of the people's rule and the spirit of the people's rulership. We are fighting for what is important for New Citizens and which we believe is important for Denmark, and we are doing so now, before the corona crisis, and we will do so after the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402105932	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402105934	The only thing that is really, really strange is that New Citizens and Mrs Pernille Vermund are using the situation that has arisen to get their own, already adopted, policy sneaked into urgent legislation to vote for what we all agree on. And what is really, really surprising is that Mrs Pernille Vermund even admits it to the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402105955	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402105957	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille mentioned that it may be that large opposition parties may sometimes need the votes of smaller parties which otherwise support the government, and I can recognize that. But I just want to know if Mr. Keating's gonna be okay. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille can confirm that it may also be that the governing party may sometimes need support from smaller support parties in their legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402110030	Oh, dear, sir. Søren Søndergaard has the memories of my not so distant political past pouring out, so I can only confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402110043	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402110049	Thank you. I actually think it's quite fair that Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille, with the gradually long experience as a member of parliament he has, just so comes with a lifted index finger to all of us and says things and things. So I don't think that Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille is right here because we are being asked if we have a crime crisis. In fact, I think we can look at the stories that come into these days, that yes, as well as we have a health crisis with corona, which poses some huge challenges for our society, we also have a crisis when it comes to criminal elements trying to exploit that situation for all kinds of fun and crime, which is actually terrible because it affects other people who are in a difficult situation. I could read on TV 2/Lorry's website last night and I don't know if Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille read with there also how companies show up and offer high-quality hand alcohol for usury prices to older people who are very, very uncertain in this situation. There is a need for us to take action on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402110157	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402110159	I think it is quite fair to discuss the things that come in the wake of the health crisis that we are facing. That is also why we are discussing matters relating to culture, business, employment and so on. etc. That's quite fair. I am not standing here and advocating that things cannot be talked about in the area of legal policy. What I just said was that there are some things that are more obvious than others in relation to this, some things where you can say: okay, here is a problem, we have to go in and resolve it, and it may be urgent. Then there is something else where it seems, perhaps especially by the Danish People's Party and the New Citizens' Party, that we think: Aha, we have something in the back catalogue; we ease that right in, now that we are in the process. Mrs Pernille Vermund of New Citizens admitted a short time ago that yes, that is how New Citizens conduct politics in times of crisis. I just didn't expect that from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402110252	Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402110254	In other words, if it is a question of tightening up the rules on expulsion and sending a signal to people who are taking advantage of this situation cold and cynical, and I am sure that foreigners do too, there are already examples of that being done, so it is important that we send out clear signals to those people that we will not tolerate it. And if there is an important signal that we can send, it is that his/her stay in Denmark is at stake, if for example. A gang is doing serious crime in this connection. And we see examples of this. So I don't understand the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402110334	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402110335	What is important is not that we send out signals; the important thing is that we have legislation that has an effect on solving the problems we want to solve. And as has also emerged from the debate in the past, the Minister for Justice has wisely replied that some of the amendments that have come from DF and New Citizens would not even have effect. In addition, it is not about sending signals. It is already an aggravating circumstance if you commit criminal acts in a way that puts other people at risk. I still do not understand, as I said in my first speech, why it is worse to commit crime in connection with this disease than it is, for example. In the case of cancer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402110410	Mrs. Inger Løjberg, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402110411	Now we have to be very careful that this is not going to be such a discussion about who has the most right to correct others. It's about to be now. Well, I don't see that there's anything wrong with parties here in the Folketing inviting into a process like this, too, to fight for the policy that you normally fight for. But what just led me to take the floor was actually the discussion about whether or not the bill should be split up. That's a fine principle, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille like to advocate, that is to say, that you have to split up legislative proposals, also in processes like these. But then I just wanted to know if this is such a general principle, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille wishes had to be pursued here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402110505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402110506	First of all, I would like to say that I disagree with Mrs Inger Løjberg in her introduction, that is to say, with the fact that it is a good thing to relax a classic case when it comes to trying to draft urgent legislation. It is fair that you have classic issues, but then we should just take them in the ordinary way and ensure that the quality of legislation is in order. That is why there are some rules, among others. in the Constitution, which ensures proper legislative quality. So there's Left and I just disagree. Then I would like to say on the second point that I believe that the only time I have been challenged by my position on it was when I was a colleague with Mrs Inger Løjberg as a minister in a government, because then there were others other than ourselves who could decide what to do. In fact, I think that the general principle of dividing up legislative proposals is a good principle. It is generally a good principle. Sometimes, of course, it can be proposed in ways where it does not make sense and therefore destroys the law-making process, and then it is a question of legislative quality.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402110606	Inger Løjberg, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402110607	I also know that sir... Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille himself voted to divide the epidemic law earlier this week, and that's fine. But when I ask, it is because the government said no to the desire of New Citizens to divide the epidemic law in its time. It's just to say that it has to apply to both roads. When Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille, like a spokesman and almost a judge, is that we should divide this legislation which I do not think should be split up, so Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille should also correct to the other side of the Assembly Hall, in that the government refused to follow the wishes of New Citizens earlier this week.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402110655	Thank you. Then we'll get answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402110657	Well, I would say that I do not think it suits any of the big parties to squeeze any of the small parties. There is no difference in my views, whether it's about Enhedslisten, New Civil, Left, Danish People's Party or Social Democracy. And I am glad that Mrs Inger Løjberg used her speaking time to mention that I had just supported the fact that New Citizens could have a vote, although I did not want to share the bill in question myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402110721	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And the Minister of Justice wants to speak? Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402110730	Thank you for that, and thank you for the very, very broad support for this bill. In terms of terms of terms, it is historically broad support for the bill, and I am, of course, extremely pleased that we will end up there. After all, in order to deal with the crisis we are in, to protect the weak in our society and to ensure that our health services can keep up, we ask all Danes to make restrictions in their lives, make choices that they would not otherwise have made, and make a number of opt-outs conditional on our having to look after each other. There will be many homework of this crisis, I think, but some of what I think is the beauty of this crisis... if you can talk about the beautiful thing... is that the Danes do it, that the Danes show such a strong degree of solidarity and put aside their own concerns, their own needs and their own interests for the sake of the community, for the sake of all the others, and especially for the sake of those who are weak, those who are at risk. So, isn't that the most beautiful thing in a society, the ability to do it, and isn't it amazing that the Danes are doing it as much as they do? I think it is the government's view that this is the social democracy. Then there are some who stand outside; a few who directly oppose, a few who take advantage of the situation as there are, a few who say: what needs solidarity, for unity, for community we can use to make money; we can use that to commit new amazing forms of crime so that we ourselves can make a quick profit of it and thus press the community and solidarity. The legislative proposal before us today is really about saying that it will not go; if we get there, we, as a society in every way, will mark our distance from it; we will double the penalties; we will make the penalty a prison sentence; we will even quadruple some of the penalties; for those who cheat on the aid packages, we will quadruple the penalty. We say that in broad terms in the Folketing. We will not tolerate undermining solidarity, cohesion and the community in this way. That's pretty good. This is the starting point for this legislation. In fact, that is what we all endorsed in principle when we had the first reading a week ago. What has then happened is that some changes have since come in and all kinds of parties have the honour of the various elements. It has come to the conclusion that if riots arise as a result of this, we will have better opportunities to take action against it. Something's come in about bribes I think it was SF that came in with that part. Something has come up about crimes against public order. Something has come in about the possibility of blocking websites, and try to notice what happens, by the way; there will probably be some who subsequently say that it was still amazing that they got away with it. We have only done so in the field of terrorism, almost exclusively in the field of terrorism. And now we're saying, if you take advantage of this situation, you have to be able to block websites that do. So it can be said that the Danish Parliament has found the great hammer and swung it to those who cheat and cheat. There is, of course, also the element of immigration which has come in and which, unfortunately, has been allowed to fill, I think, disproportionately much in relation to the great thing that we share, but that is often the case with foreign discussions here in the Assembly. We were actually trying to make sure that this bill could be divided into two, but we couldn't just do it in such a common way that we split it up. Why couldn't we? It was because the Foreign Party had not entered into the first reading and therefore there would be some lawyers who would say: Ahr, ahr, if a law is to be passed in the Folketing, it has to be dealt with three times, and the Foreign Party has not been at first reading, which was not because it came in as an amendment, as has been pointed out at times. That's why you couldn't just stand it out and say that we split it up. So the only way to ensure that it was dealt with now was a separate legislative proposal, that is, a new legislative proposal, which should have gone through three readings today, not two, but three, because it was not the first reading. If so, then emergency treatment must be granted. I had a wish. I had a wish that we could do it that way. Because in this way we would have ended up where we could have said: there is a majority in favour of tightening the rules on foreigners here. There are some parties that do not want to join, and let us just be honest and say that the party that really got the most in touch here was the Enhedslisten. Radicals would in any case have voted against this bill. But all the reports, and I have talked to a lot, not least the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, were: We want to be there; please give us a seat; let us be there. And the only option I could see was to do three treatments of the alien part and then leave us with the other large part, which we could then adopt in common. The foreigner's side, like any foreign policy, would have been with the usual discussions and views, etc., but the large part, the punishments, the things that I was just talking about before, would have been given its own place, and we would have been able to adopt all the parties, perhaps just apart from the Radical Left, but at least practically all the parties. Hagen knows it was that the urgent procedure requires a three-quarters majority in the Folketing. I couldn't get that. God knows, and if not the gods, then I have all of you in this room testifying to it, at least most of you, that I did a pretty great job to try to see if it could succeed. Couldn't do it. There was a minority that constituted enough to block that opportunity. That's why it's where we are now, that this is integrated into it. When we support it, we support it because we think it is sensible. We also think it is reasonable that when we say, moreover, that we will hit anyone who shows unsolidarous and antisocial behaviour in this context, and if it comes to criminal foreigners and we have the opportunity to throw them out of the country once they have done so, then we say: let us do so as far as possible. I'm glad we're gonna pass this bill. I am glad that it is adopted as widely as it is adopted, because we are thus sending out a signal about a Denmark that is united and reacts very hard to those who are consistently outside our community.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402111520	The Minister of Justice's speech was, in effect, clear enough; no one had to call the gods to help. But there are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402111529	Well, thank you for the legal explanation of why things were as they were and could not be done in another way, as the Minister of Justice said. What I am interested in here is that I heard the Socialist rapporteur very much welcome the tightening up of the expulsion rules as this is. I heard the SF's rapporteur say that it had no significance. Can the Minister try to make us a little wiser on whether it matters or whether it doesn't matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20200402111603	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402111606	It does not matter, but it is expected to have very limited practical significance. Can one think of cases where it would be said that this would be important? You can do that, and it may be that this example doesn't hold up completely, but it's going to hold up about 99 percent. Sure. We must have a foreigner who is legally resident in Denmark who has been here for, let us say, six years, who has come here as an adult, who has not formed a family, who sells counterfeit hand alcohol for 25,000 kroner, and who, under normal circumstances, would be sentenced to two months' imprisonment. He wouldn't be expelled with the rules we have today. With the rules that will be adopted, he will certainly be expelled; I know that this is the decision of the judges on the basis of the facts and so on, but everything else is an example. Do I think it makes sense for the foreigner concerned to be expelled? Yeah, I think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402111704	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402111707	I think it was very good to get that part from the Minister for Justice, because that emphasizes that, we have to assume, when the government says it this way and the minister says it this way, that it doesn't matter that then it's actually important that we send a signal here that is not misunderstood. So that's the legal thing. And one thing I want to say here is that right now we are sending lots of signals from the Danish Parliament; the Prime Minister sends signals every day about what to do and what not to do. Here we send a clear signal to foreigners that they have to adjust and behave properly. We in the Danish People's Party think this is sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402111743	Thank you. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402111745	I just have to say that apart from the fact that I can give the example, which is a constructed example, it is the assessment that this tightening is of very limited practical significance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402111801	Thank you. Then it's Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402111804	Thank you. Of the 4.112 reviews of theft that have been in March, the 12 are corona-related. That is to say, it is 0.29%, and that is why the Radical Left believes that this bill is overkill. However, I would like to ask the Minister whether he agrees with Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt's interpretation that the de minimis threshold which has been introduced for the unconditional imprisonment of small-scale rapes of hand alcohol applies not only to health professionals but also to other people.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402111844	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402111845	When you start your question like that, I have to arrest the premise that there is no crime that relates to the corona virus. Well, a few days ago, we had 10 trick thefts. We had 29 cases of theft and forced entry, where protective equipment had been stolen. We have 114 cases of fraud. We have 26 suspicious Internet domains, it may be that they are not criminals, but they are some that we will now be able to come after. So the thing about making such an assumption that this doesn't matter is wrong. That is simply not true. To the second part of the question, I have answered quite clearly that an example has been given of what it might be. An example is not an exhaustive list.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402111930	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402111933	The Minister has just written in a note to the bill a number of examples of when it seems that there is too little punishment. The radical legal rapporteur, sir. Kristian Hegaard, in several written questions, has asked where there are judgments or case-law that support these very examples. Would the Minister today point to judgments or case-law in which this is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20200402112004	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402112005	Why is that relevant? Why is that relevant? I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402112015	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402112019	Thank you to the government for supporting the new citizens' and DF amendments. This has aroused a great deal of debate in this Chamber today and, unfortunately, as has been said before, it is the case when we speak foreigners. There have been versions that the amendment does not have much meaning, and then there have been versions that it was very good to get it, because it sends a strong signal. There is no doubt that this crisis, although deep, will hopefully extend over a limited period and therefore the number of persons committing crime will also be limited in such a wider perspective. So that is the way to ask: how many are we talking about? However, this is quite a serious form of crime, which is why I am pleased that the government and the Social Democrats support the fact that it must of course also have consequences for the foreigners who have been here for a long time. But if it is not the large number, and if it is still limited, we would have liked to go further in New Citizens; we would have liked to say that this should apply to everyone, and not all the reservations that have always been expressed, it is remarkable that there are parties on the left who find it so abominable with such a limited proposal that they do not want to be involved. What does the Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200402112131	Now is the time very much over!
ParlaMint-DK_20200402112142	That sounded like a new rapporteur's speech. In fact, there was certainly not really any question, and I am not going to judge other parties, that is what the electorate has to do. That was the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402112200	That was the answer. Then it is the case that we now have one brief comment left, and that is from Mr Beazley. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille. That is why I would also like to say that, relatively quickly afterwards, we are embarking on the second reading of L 161. It is in this way said to the rapporteurs who may be at L 161 that it will not be long before we get to work on it. But the last person who has asked for a brief comment is Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402112233	I just think it was appropriate to commend the Minister for Justice for actually trying to solve the challenge that was, with the legislative, in relation to whether we could vote on things in different ways, and also for the answer that is about the lack of practical significance of the proposal. That is why, I think at least, there is talk of some kind of foreign policy hijacking of a proposal which is really about something quite different. I just don't think that's fair in the situation we're in. But thank you to the Justice Minister for trying to prevent this way of conducting our own policy in emergency law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402112318	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402112320	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402112325	There is no need for another brief comment? No. That means that no one else has asked to speak, and we thank the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402112334	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, adopted by the Committee, on Amendments Nos 1 and 2. 3 of a minority (DF and NB), adopted by a majority, on Amendment No. 4 and 5 of a minority (SF), elected by a majority (other committee), or on Amendment No. 6, Acting by a majority? They are adopted. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 7 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (RV and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)) which was rejected. It has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 8-10 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (V, KF and NB), which was rejected. They are rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Amendment No 11, adopted by the Committee, on Amendment No 11. 12 of a minority (DF and NB), elected by a majority (S, V, KF, SIU and JF), on Amendment No. 13 and 14, adopted by the Committee, or on Amendments Nos. 13 and 14, adopted by the Committee. 15 of a minority (DF and NB), joined by a majority (S, V, KF, SIU and JF)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402112515	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20200402112544	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402112615	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, agreed by the committee that the draft law should be divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been adopted. The draft law referred to in A is then put to the vote [Proposal for a law authorizing temporary derogations from the obligations of companies in the field of company and accounting in connection with the covid-19]: requested vote on Amendment No 19. 2, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. A vote is then taken on the draft law referred to in B [Proposal for a law authorizing temporary derogations from the rules relating to restrictions on the opening hours of shops in connection with the covid-19]: Request for a vote on Amendment No 1. 3 or on Amendment No 3 by a majority (the committee with the exception of LA) or by a majority of its members. 4, joined by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200402112659	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held today, Thursday, 2 April 2020, at 3 pm. 12.00 with 3rd reading of L 157, L 161, L 168 A and L 168 B and then 2. Then there is a 1st treatment of B 161. There are therefore votes at 1 p.m. 12.00.
