ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5014	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 120 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The application of the electronic voting system has shown that 91 MPs, or more than one third of MPs, are present in the hall, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, is in agreement with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called for the sittings to be attended by Mr. Milorad Todorovic, Interior Ministry Secretary Aleksandar Veljkovic, Interior Ministry Chief and Nenad Banovic, Head of the Interior Ministry. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL ON THE PROTECTION OF THE COUNTRY OF State (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Vladan Jeremic, Sladjan Mijaljević, together Milica Vojić-Marković, Miroslav Petković and Arsen Đurić, Dusan Marić, Milan M. Nikolic, Ljubomir Kragović, Miroslav Markić, Radica Jocic, Milorad Krstin, Lidija Dimitrijevic and Sreto Perić. You have received the opinion of the Government and the Legislative Committee's report on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For a word, because they want to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic, MP Vjerica Radeta, MP Miroslav Markicevic, came forward. Has anyone else expressed their desire to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure? (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: We are not on bid, that someone will say when he wants to. I would like to ask Natasu Jovanovic, Vice-President of the Assembly... (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: I ask you to conduct the session properly. I'm here to warn you, as vice president of the assembly. What's he doing here? ) I express my warning to the vice-president of the National Assembly and the MP Natasa Jovanovic. This is the second warning due to disrespect for the dignity of the National Assembly and the distraction of the chairman to lead the National Assembly and, on the basis of the violation of Article 104, to conduct without respect and respect for fellow MPs. This is the second reminder given to the MP Natasa Jovanovic during this session, based on members 106 and Article 100, which speaks of our obligations as MPs and officials of the National Assembly. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5015	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a violation of article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because I warned the chairman that I had reported to the Rules of Procedure, which he had completely ignored, wanting to open the agenda point, thinking that this would in some way prevent the opposition's MPs from expressing everything they think should be told both the representatives of the position and the citizens of Serbia. I would ask you to respect what it says in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that an MP who wishes to speak of the violation of the Rules of Procedure gets his word immediately. Otherwise, I responded because of article 33, which also caused me to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure yesterday, which refers to the secretary of the National Assembly and his obligation to handle the ministry of the National Assembly. I told you about the problem we had in the Parliament Group, about entering the Parliament Group's premises, moving things, pulling up phone cables and finding some posters, which, firstly, the president of the Assembly, and then the service sent a memo saying that the workers of the "Adriatics" were entering the premises of the SRS Parliament Club, in order to carry out the necessary molar-farbaric works. The problem is that no craft work has been done at all in the rooms, neither the rooms have been painted, nor the floor has been changed; only the cables have been torn up and furniture layouts have been changed by some faces. Were they really representatives of the Jadran company, I'm not going to get into it at all, but what the congregation service stated is not true. I request the Secretary of the National Assembly to examine the full case and deliver to the SRS Parliament Club accurate, or true information, because we cannot go beyond what is happening, nor allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5016	National MP, there is no violation of Rule 100, and I did not harm the Rules of Procedure by giving you a word, for a simple reason, that until I open the session and until I open the agenda, you have no reason to make any remarks that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, since the breach of the Rules of Procedure refers to the course of the session. In order for it to be possible to give you a word, there must be a session, in order for there to be a session, there must be an open agenda point that we are discussing at the session. I consider your untrue claim that in any way I have intentions, I show my intention to prevent anyone from speaking when the Rules of Procedure has the right to receive a word. As I have no intention, and I am not, nor will I prevent anyone from getting a word, so I intend to apply the Rules of Procedure as well. The word wishes, in connection with the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Prophets of Radeth. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Article 100, and he gets his word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5017	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come forward on the basis of Article 201. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before that, I would ask Mrs Comic to explain to us where it says in the Rules of Procedure that she must open a session before giving the People's MP a word based on Article 100. Rules of Procedure. Let's say, if you completed your session yesterday, and in the meantime, at the end of the session, you have done a violation of the Rules of Procedure, isn't it possible that today, just before the beginning, or before the opening of some next item of the agenda, the MP intervenes in the Rules of Procedure? Of course it's possible. Please, Mrs. Comic, since, otherwise, you like to talk to the Rules of Procedure, when I'm done, explain to us where you read it, you might have some Rules of Procedure that we don't have, that the MP doesn't get the word by article 100 right now, but when you think about it, and what you just did is, just when you think of it?- I'm sorry. Yesterday I began a debate on how to answer the MPs when they address, first of all, the chairman of Parliament, on the basis of Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. According to that article, it is the chairman's obligation to receive specific information, or to answer the question asked by the MP and to publicly announce to the MP, to all other people's MPs and to the public of Serbia what it is that the answer to what the MP wanted to hear. Yesterday, I spoke of an answer to the issue of Serbia's state's relationship to the UN tribunal's indictees. In response, everything stands in superlative, a man would say that this country really takes care of Serbs held captive in The Hague tribunal. We, members of a team that helps prepare the defence of Dr Vojislav Seselj and all members of the SRS, know best what the attitude of state authorities towards Hague indictees is. It is amazing and it is a shame that you wrote here that the Embassy of the Republic of Serbia in The Hague, within its work, provides assistance to our citizens who have been indicted before The Hague tribunal. Should we remind you of that shameful interview last year, which the ambassador, intoxicated, apparently, after mostly drunk, gave the list of "Time" and the way he characterized all Serbs trapped in The Hague? Is that helping Serbs in The Hague?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5018	You speak for three minutes, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5019	Mrs. Comic, you're in violation of the Rules of Procedure right now. Look at the member I advertised. I have the right to speak for five minutes based on that member. I pray that in the day of voting, Parliament will declare whether you have now injured the Rules of Procedure, because you have interrupted me.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5020	You do not have the right to speak for five minutes because it is an article 201 concerning parliamentary matters. At no time does this session have a debate on parliamentary issues. When, after the end of all the agendas, there are parliamentary issues, then you will be entitled to five minutes to explain the parliamentary issues. When at the request of any parliamentary group a session is scheduled at which the government, individual ministers or the entire government and the Prime Minister will answer questions, then you will be entitled to five minutes. Now you're entitled to three minutes, preferably, to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. As for the objection you pointed out, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The breach of the Rules of Procedure refers to a breach in the procedure. In order for the procedure to be injured, a session must be open, that is, to discuss any part of the agenda, so that the MP can point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Our informal agreement to give a word based on Article 100, and to speak on the part of the Rules of Procedure regarding the rights and duties of our MPs, is our silent agreement, which will continue to be respected, but if the abuse of Rules of Procedure is directed at not opening a session of the National Assembly, so as not to open the agenda, then it would be a common violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I do not believe that any of us 250 would agree to participate in the obvious violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word has a folk MP, Miroslav Markicevic, so the MPs Dragan Todorovic, Vjerica Radeta, Dragan Stevanovic and Zoran Krasic. Has anyone else come forward with a desire to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? National MPs Gordana Pop-Lazic, Zeljko Tomic and Sreto Peric. Anyone else want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? National MP Dragan Zivkov. I would like to ask national MP Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly, to address with respect for the MPs. Everything we say at the chair is also heard in direct transmission. Whether you hear it or not, you cannot address the disdain of the MPs. I'm really asking you not to force me to take a word for it at this session. I take away the word during this session of the People's Parliament of Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5021	Dear Vice-Presidents, fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, I appeal to Rule 226 of our Rules of Procedure, as I need some notices without which I would probably not be able to perform my duties as a member of the People's Council. What's this about? A few days ago, the government of Montenegro recognized part of our territory, as we like to say, someone honest, someone dishonest, therefore, the most sacred part of our territory, as an independent state. Several dozen MPs asked for a notice from you, from the president of the Assembly and all those who chaired to tell us what steps the government of the Republic of Serbia is taking and what the government of the Republic of Serbia is going to take for the move. As the days pass, I see someone in the government of the Republic of Serbia counting on the short memory of Serbian citizens. This time it will not happen and I assure you that the citizens of Serbia, at least a good part of them, expect further steps from the government of the Republic of Serbia. Why am I saying this the most? Because in Montenegro, at the moment, there is a great persecution of Serbs, a great persecution of citizens who, in all polls, over 80% have pleaded against the ruling of the government of Montenegro. Only our government doesn't react any further. I'm saying this because at this point, on the ninth day, an honest man, a Serb, has decided to sacrifice and strike hunger, demanding that the government of Montenegro withdraw a shameful decision. That man's name is Andrija Mandic. I ask, I believe, that you all think so, that together in heart and soul, we give him support, asking the Lord God to preserve his health, however, and asking the Government of the Republic of Serbia to respond, to support our countrymen in Montenegro in their fair fight and the fair fight of Andrija Mandic, who wants to wash his sacrifice off the face of Montenegro. Montenegro is not what the government of Montenegro brought. Montenegro is 85% of citizens who are against the decision, and I expect the government of the Republic of Serbia not to expect Serbian citizens to forget that for ten or 15 days, nothing is happening and that it is not taking any of the following steps, as a sovereign and independent state, against the government of Montenegro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5022	Before I give a word to MP Dragan Todorovic, a notice. The Industry Committee, scheduled for today at 11 o'clock, is moving in 11.30 hours. The Committee's session will also be attended by Mr Petar Skundric, the minister of energy in the government of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5023	I am advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of article 100, attitude 4, and, Mrs. Komic, I am asking you and the Serbian Parliament a simple question. If you did not violate the Rules of Procedure by not giving me the word when I asked for it, then yesterday the chairman, i.e. Parliament Speaker, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, broke the Rules of Procedure, because she gave the head of the G17 Group plus a word before opening the session even before the session was opened. I'm not saying I can explain it to you right now, so let me get this straight, but I'm asking you a question, because we have exactly the same situation, the beginning of the session that took place yesterday and the beginning of the session today. Tell me, is there the same explanation for one and another beginning? These are the things you have to take care of. I know you need the reserve, and I know you've secured the reserve, but you can't go through the reservation this brutally and treat the MPs of a political party like this. Really, it doesn't make sense. You're breaking into our rooms, allegedly, the moths, pulling up phone cables, moving furniture, not giving us a word in the Rules of Procedure, thinking that you'd be able to extend some power by such violence, because you have a reserve, and it's obvious that something's going on yesterday, and just yesterday the release of the first speaker suggested that in the ruling majority some things are happening that indicate certain changes. That is why you, in every way possible, want to prevent SRS MPs from working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We did nothing but point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. In this case, to the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman, i.e. you, explain to me, since you can explain everything and everything, only this – yesterday's session, yesterday's beginning and today.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5024	I think you're asking me a question that you yourself know the answer to. You didn't think yesterday that the president of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic was violating the Rules of Procedure, nor do you think so today. You think I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure, I told you not to break it. Your question at today's session concerns yesterday. I have no doubt that it was in your mind that yesterday the Rules of Procedure was broken, by holding a session, so you wouldn't intervene yesterday. Since you didn't intervene yesterday, you think the Rules of Procedure were not violated yesterday, and today you think I'm breaking it. I think it's perfectly clear to you and me that we're different in terms of whether or not I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure. I don't think I'm breaking it, the session is opening, the debate is starting, and the word based on article 100 is going to get all the MPs, as long and as long as they want and have the excuse to get the word, and I don't think you doubt that. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5025	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will try to explain Article 201 which is, by the way, the basis of my report. Mr. Todorovic, I don't know how it went with your hand, but you've managed so much to confuse Mrs. Komic that she's no longer in her own style trying to explain how it breaks or doesn't violate the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Komic, what you're doing today, so you're breaking the Rules of Procedure from cover to cover, and not just today, but every day. We are trying to teach you, to draw your attention to certain members of the Rules of Procedures that you are violating, and to this day you have somehow tried to try to explain that you are right. What you did today is indeed a demonstration of force. It is the majority of the assembly, but that doesn't mean you have the opportunity to terrorise the opposition in any way. That's exactly what you did from the very beginning, from when you didn't give your word to Mr. Todorovic until you took away the words of Natashi Jovanovic. I can't finish all of this in the short time that the Rules of Procedure is scheduled, so I'm going to work it out individually during the day. I now quote Article 201: "After answering the parliamentary question given, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment, for a maximum period of five minutes, on the answer to his question or to ask an additional question. After receiving an answer to the additional question, the MP has the right to declare his response for a maximum of five minutes." Mrs. Komic, at the beginning, I said that you were trying to turn our announcements into parliamentary issues, which is not true at all. In addition, since this meeting, and the previous one, which he led and his president was Mr Oliver Dulic, the MPs have never been able to use the article. 198 and 199 and to ask parliamentary questions, nor have you ever allowed the MPs to communicate directly with the representatives of the Government, which is what the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly allows. You now claim that I or any MP, when we get an answer to something that you have called a parliamentary question, we have no right to comment on. That's not true. Even if this was a classic parliamentary question, the moment you get an answer to that question, the MP has, first, to inform the National Assembly and the public, first of all, whether he is satisfied with the answer, or manipulated, as is the case with this question that I still want to talk about. So Article 201 allows the MP to speak for five minutes, from the moment he gets an answer to the parliamentary question, whenever the MP is given a convenient situation to talk about it. You can't do Article 201.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5026	Three minutes and 30 seconds, with a quote.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5027	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5028	Injury of Article 201. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly do not exist. National MP Natasa Jovanovic insists that I have been telling you behind your back the whole time. I asked the Secretary of Parliament and Parliament Nikola Jovanovic if they remembered the exact date when the cabinet and ministers held the session and the MPs asked the parliamentary questions, because this is the information I needed to answer your question, since you claimed that such a session was not held. I know it is, but at this point, I don't know the date, or when exactly it was, and it was the subject of my consultation with the Secretary of the National Assembly. Article 201 refers to parliamentary issues and to a session where parliamentary questions are asked. The moment any parliamentary group makes a request to convene a session at which the Prime Minister, the entire government or individual ministers will answer parliamentary questions, anyone who holds the presidency will have an obligation to, according to the Rules of Procedure, give five minutes to ask a parliamentary question and to express dissatisfaction if the Minister or Prime Minister has not answered the question. That situation doesn't exist. This is a session where we have a discussion in particular. The only way to get the word, except to appear in the Rules of Procedure, according to Article 141 of the Rules of Procedure, in the time set for the parliamentary groups for the debate on amendments, is Article 100, which speaks of injury procedures, and any MP who wants to talk about injury, gets the word, based on Article 1's position. Your dissatisfaction with your attitudes and your desire to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, because I started the session, I explained. So, the session has to last. There is no difference in giving words either in the rights or MPs of the ruling majority or MPs of the opposition. For as long as anyone wants, by our silent agreement, to turn from the pay phone during today's work day, they will have a word, as they always have been. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, based on Article 100(1), followed by MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5029	Dear fellow Members of the People, I call on a member of 221 who obliges us all to participate in the work of the National Assembly. By using that right, I would like, in accordance with Article 226, to ask the President of the National Assembly or, now, the chairman, Mrs Comic is only currently following the chairman's microphone, to give us an answer, or to ask us for a reply from the competent state authorities, from where does such money to the newly formed political party that yesterday on six televisions can broadcast directly to its founding assembly? Who paid these direct transfers out of the tycoon, or who took that kind of money out of his pocket, because under the Law on the financing of political parties, this political party, which has just formed, has not received any money from the budget? I'd like one of the competent inspection authorities to look at those papers and tell us how and who gave the money for that. It is clear that a pro-Western political party has been formed. The proof of that is the logo this political party has chosen. However, they changed color, red-blue, blue-red, but it's a company logo, i.e. One prestigious company called MTU, a German company that produced "Tiger" tanks in World War II, and today is one of the largest European factories, which makes engines for heavy vehicles and "Leopard 2" tanks. That says a lot to himself. Remember that NATO also has a modified logo of the cowardly cross, so make your own conclusion – who is behind this newly formed political party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5030	I ask the service to have a stenogram of the presentation of the Parliament of the People's Parliament Gordana Pop-Lazic, for the time being, referred only to the Committee on Finance, but to one of the first requests, when amendments and additions to the Law enter into force, that is, the laws which are on the agenda of this Assembly, and concerning the Anti-Corruption and Law on the financing of political parties and on the State Auditor, be made available to them, with a request that they also deal with their work. The word is from MP Zeljko Tomic, who wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of article 100, followed by MP Marko Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5031	Dear Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, dear fellow Members of the People, I do not want to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, I call... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5032	People's MP, you can't say in the first sentence -- I don't want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, because you get your word based on what you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Please return to your seat. No one can approach the speaker of the National Assembly until the chairman allows it. Please return to your seat. National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, so MP Marko Milenkovic, reviewing the order. I apologize to both the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5033	I volunteered to point out to you the scandalous application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and not to let you, in the end, interpret which members I was referring to during this presentation, in advance I tell you that they are members of 27 and 31. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. According to Article 31. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, vice president of the National Assembly, helps, and at certain times replaces. There are always big problems when Mrs. Comic replaces the president of the National Assembly and uses the powers of Article 27, especially the third indent, where the 'old' is. To take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure does not mean to welcome a pension at the post of Vice President of the National Assembly, but to apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The public in Serbia has witnessed that the opposition has been asking for days to discuss a matter. It's said it can't, it's not according to the Rules of Procedure. Yesterday, he finally made sense, and we're already having some effects today. The government has begun to think, and as far as I've heard, the Ministry of the Interior will discuss, shed light on some of the circumstances. So, what we've been doing for a week in the Rules of Procedure and asking for the burning topic to be considered, it's come to fruition. As for what Mr. Todorovic was saying, he only asked Mrs. Komic – when it was injured by the Rules of Procedure, if the situation was exactly the same yesterday and today. Of course, he's got one rhetorical answer, which no one knows alive. The highlight of this scandalous application of the Rules of Procedure is Article 107(2). Please, take the Rules of Procedure, read, I don't need any comment or interpretation. It is said: The Messenger of the people, who has been told the measure of taking away words, is obliged to turn away from the pay phone without delay. You said you were taking away the words of Natasa Jovanovic, and she was not even behind the pay phone. How can this measure be implemented to get her away from the pay phone when she hasn't even reached the pay phone? It is something amazing, how you apply this Rules of Procedure, deliberately causing scandals and preventing opposition in just demands to solve the current and burning things in this country. As for these 15 seconds, I'd like to buy you the sooner you get to Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5034	Time is money. As regards your observations, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, neither in Article 27 nor in Article 31. The public closely followed the work of the opposition in our congregation, and even more closely the ruling majority’s reactions. I am sorry that I have no right to give you my view of what this congregation has done, because I have no word. As for my rhetorical response and your remarks, here we go again. National MP Dragan Todorovic asked whether the Rules of Procedure were violated yesterday, when the session was practically not opened, when the debate did not begin and when there was no basis for obtaining the word per Article 100(1), which speaks of a violation of the procedure, and when it is necessary to say that, regardless of what the MPs have said, it must be part of the stenogram, or is being violated today? National MP Dragan Todorovic didn't have any objections yesterday and apparently believes that the Rules of Procedure were not violated yesterday, because I don't believe he would have lost sight of the violation of the procedure during yesterday. National MP Dragan Todorovic thinks that today's Rules of Procedure has been broken in the conduct of the session and in the care of order and I have an answer for it – I think it is not, and that is how it is resolved, the MP throws it away, so it is logical. Unfortunately, you lawyers know better, I'm not talking about logic, I'm talking about what's in the Rules of Procedure. So, I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken today. Article 107, which speaks of the final penalty measure, is pronounced after two warnings. The first warning was made to the MP Natasa Jovanovic in the previous working days of this session, and this second one today. The violation of the Rules of Procedure in contempt of the dignity of the National Assembly and in a demeaning relationship with the MPs has continued. According to the Rules of Procedure, I have no choice but to take away her word for the duration of this session. The word is made by MP Marko Milenkovic. He wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. After him is MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5035	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because Mrs Comic violated members 27, 106 and 107 of this Rules of Procedure. Ms. Comic injured the Rules of Procedure by means of her presidency, when, first of all, Natasa Jovanovic gave her first and second notice, absolutely, for no reason whatsoever. Ms. Natasa Jovanovic is quite appropriate, she politely asked Mrs. Komic, who is this gentleman and what will he do next to her? Indeed, I think it is a question that Mrs. Comic should answer to this home, because about 200 MPs in the Assembly absolutely have problems in carrying out the parliamentary duty, as ghosts are walking in the National Assembly. So, when we see ghosts, which I don't know how they are still here, it creates an objective, particular problem, in order to solve our citizens' problems peacefully and positively. In one period, Mrs Comic had a problem when we asked a simple question – when you would return the mandates, so she responded immediately, and now she responded to the question of who this gentleman is and what he is doing here. I understand that Mrs Comic, absolutely, is committed to the project of her ideological leader, Boris Tadic, if there is, in general, any ideology in which the principle of political morality is sacrificed to the principle of political usefulness. So, the party that was created yesterday is the new child of Boris Tadic and I understand the need for Mrs Comic to swing and keep it, if necessary, to jump in if the ruling majority has any problem. Another problem that grew objectively yesterday was the mention of the largest Serbian nationalist and the greatest respecter of all peoples, Mr Vojislav Seselj, by Tomislav Nikolic. In a political, scientific, social sense, natural, social science, in a spiritual, intellectual, sociological sense, in any area of life, was Tomislav Nikolic up to Duke Vojislav Seselj? He doesn't care about the articles. Therefore, let him think carefully next time he mentions the name of Dr. Vojislav Seselj...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5036	Time. Three minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5037	... or, if he does, let him say first, God forgive me, I am not worthy of my godfather to mention the name, but I must, in order to justify this shame that I have brought myself and other people into. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5038	People's MP, the 100th member has not been broken. All MPs who wish to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure will be given a word based on the article. The 100th century is the 1st century. What is the procedure of holding a session is that the session begins with the opening of the agenda, a search in particular of the law on the agenda. This kind of abuse of the Rules of Procedure that, even if we don't open points, it's a common violation of the Rules of Procedure of all 250 of us. As regards the pronunciation of the warning measure and the confiscation of words under Article. 106th and 107th, I can read you an article. 106th and 107th and to confirm that I did not violate the Rules of Procedure, and it is not true that I made two warnings. Another warning has been made, because the sentences are gradually imposed, meaning, on the basis of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. First warning, based on repeated or new, second warning, based on the third repeated violation of any of the members of the Rules of Procedure – the measure of confiscation of words. The word is from MP Nikola Savic, who wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1) after that, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5039	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225 and 226. I have to admit, at first, that I expected someone from the DS to come forward about what I wanted to say. However, since no DS has come forward about this, I must meet Serbia's public that yesterday is formed, or open, a new DS exposure, led by Tomislav Nikolic. Of course, I have no intention of meddling in internal affairs, the internal affairs of the DS, because, regardless of all this, one serious and large party, however, what was heard from yesterday's rally is nothing but the brutal deception of Serbian citizens. I want to believe that this deception has taken place for two possible reasons. One reason is that we know that everything new at first does not stand very stable on its feet and there has probably been some discrepancies, so they may have run out, perhaps, to deceive the brutal citizens of Serbia. Another possible reason is that this is a system-ordered deception from the DS parent power plant. Whether it is one reason or another, I ask Serbian and DS President Boris Tadic to protect the citizens of Serbia, because they are already deluded enough from both his party and the ruling majority -- better standards, higher salaries, higher pensions and faster routes to Europe. Once again, Serbia's President, DS President Boris Tadic, should finally, as president of the state, protect Serbian citizens from further deception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5040	The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, who wants to speak after the injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5041	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Unlike the other MPs, I would ask you to give your explanation even after pointing out the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Unlike some, I enjoy how you logically explain it, how you bring everything into harmony, and what is possible and what is impossible, and I think they have the opportunity to hear and see our citizens, or those who follow the work of the Assembly. I am reporting under Article 104 of Section 1 where MPs are said to be obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Please listen to me carefully, Mrs. Comic, about the problem that has arisen with Nenada Canka and his warning that he will deny support for the government and that there may be a government downfall. Normally, journalists have also responded to questions – is it possible for Nenad Canak to lose his mandates. Among other things, they also asked the president of the DS Executive Board, and he says – Nenad Canak is an empty rifle; MPs' rights and obligations are regulated by a coalition agreement. To be clear, I have no objection to this statement by Mr. Mark Djurisic, I think she is perfectly fine and is in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the law, with the Rules of Procedure, so I don't think he is in violation of his statement of the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the law. That's what you do, you have double arches. Be careful what Marko Djurisic says, he says all this has been arranged by a coalition agreement and points out that Canak, and that he will, cannot bring down the government. The possibility of Canak destroying the government is equal to the possibility of a comet hitting the planet and bringing a new ice age – Djurisic is ironic. Also, it is not possible for MPs G 17 plus to do anything against the agreement, as their mandates are also with the DS. I'm asking you, gentlemen of the "yellow company" - how is it possible that you have such obviously double arches? You're going to say there's no resignations, but I'm just calling on you to the circumstances that a few days ago in the Assembly, we're done with the law of confiscation of property acquired by crime, and the assets of the SRS, that is. written resignations, crimes have disappeared and been taken away from the SRS. We have raised that question, but I am saying this because of the citizens of Serbia, to see how you are all trying to keep your reserve alive and your government alive.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5042	National MP, Article 104, which you have called for to be injured, cannot be harmed by someone's statements in the papers, but I agree with you that all of us MPs should take care of what kind of vocabulary... (Dragan Todorovic, from town: Can you repeat? The MP asks me to repeat, since he has not heard. Who disturbed you, People's Messenger? (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: I would not like to appoint, from the DS order. Please, if you can, repeat. I don't think so. So, at the request of MP Dragan Todorovic, I repeat an explanation he has not heard. The breach of Article 104 cannot apply to statements by MPs in the media, as much as I have agreed with you that all of us MPs need to take great care of the weight of the spoken word. If the requirement to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of Article 104, will contribute to the fact that we are all a little more responsible to our statements in public, in the media of any kind, then, as in the previous days, any exposure to the injury of the Rules of Procedure will benefit all of us. On the matter of mandate, you know better than I do. By procedure, when the mandate of the MP ceases on any basis, the RIK shall be referred to the list, the applicant shall submit a request for the allocation of the mandate to the other MP, and the report shall be composed of the Administrative Committee and the Assembly shall establish a change of mandate. The MP asks about the law you mentioned. This law cannot be a breach of procedure, and I hope, since you have spoken of the law of confiscation of acquired property, that this law will be applied to its last member, in each letter. I sincerely hope and hope it's a common desire for all of us 250. The word is from MP Milan Avramovic, who wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, based on article 100, and gets the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5043	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to the article. 225 and 226. It is good that the Serbian Parliament and citizens who are looking at this transfer to asked questions get some answers, during a time that slowly passes and comes in favour of a party that is damaged. So here we raised one question, one of the MPs of the SRS asked the question at both the previous and last session, but the answer, unfortunately, is still gone. We will insist on these questions as long as we do not get answers, because we believe that this is our legitimate right. What I would like by the members of 225 and 226, and first by Article 226, is to ask the question: Who made it possible and in what way, last night, the show at Study B to Professor Oliver Antic? Who made it possible and in what way on RTS, on state television, Mrs. Jorgenki Tabakovic? Who allowed the transfer of the conference last night or, as they call it, the founding assembly, to six channels, which are private, which are state frequencies, to certain political parties that advertise themselves as if it were a pre-election campaign for presidential elections, rather than for the establishment of one party? So basic questions have to be answered, and then we have to make some conclusions. What is very important, what Serbian citizens should see and know, is that these same in some media were asking questions: "Who is targeting us, why are we the target, for what reasons has the government targeted us? ". Here, the citizens of Serbia, as time passes, you see who targeted them, who enabled them, who enabled them to promote, who allowed them to use, even, the music of Rocky Balboa, who made it possible and for what purposes. Whoever he was boxing with last night at the Sava Center, you could see. What is very important to me, it is that the party that has in the amanet, and has not even registered, the theft of parliamentary mandates, cannot function as a party until these issues are resolved. The question is, did they target themselves, did they target DS? If it's DS, we've got those answers from last night, and if they're targeting themselves, it's clear that it's a blank shooting.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5044	People's MP, in the wording that you said at the pay phone, which can only be in the stenogram, you made it impossible to ask any media house you mentioned. So you can't ask who made it possible, whether the media is private or public service, such as RTS. The Assembly can't do that. So either rephrase the question, that, based on the stenogram of your presentation, I can provide you with the information needed to work, or this breach of the Rules of Procedure can't be realised in order to get any answer. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to speak on the basis of Article 100(1) and gets the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5045	Article 101(1) is the basis for which I have answered and I want to talk about the injury of Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, which says that the president of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You are here as vice president of the National Assembly, replacing the President of the National Assembly, in violation of the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. You violate them, first, by communicating in an inappropriate way and conducting dialogue with the MPs in place and after pointing out the breach of the Rules of Procedure, commenting on the injury itself longer than it is quite. On the other hand, by continuing the dialogue with the MP, in particular, it is Dragan Todorovic, who does not have the opportunity to go out for a pay phone and respond to your remarks. Thirdly, by interpreting most that everything you present, as chairman at this time, is not subject to the right to replication, because, my God, you hold a session, and there is no such provision in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Furthermore, you violate the Rules of Procedure by commenting in an extremely creative way. I accept that all of us in that part are creative and, when it comes to art. 225 and 226, I can agree in part with you, but when such creativity has already occurred and when it has been established as a practice for years in this House, then do not be creative over this creativity, by interpreting what its intentions are, in particular, the MP Zeljko Tomic, after a single sentence he has spoken. It is your duty to listen to the MP, at least a few sentences to connect in the sense of what he means to say, to draw conclusions about what he says. In particular, MP Zeljko Tomic said, "I don't want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure," after which he was excluded. Maybe he meant, "but I have to talk." How do you know what he was going to say next? You are doing a certain kind of violence against the MPs. When it comes to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100(1) says that the word is received immediately after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Nowhere in the Rules of Procedure is there a matter of when proceedings can be followed to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. We, perhaps, during the vote, or before the vote itself, feel that you have violated the procedure. It is possible that you injured the procedure during the session itself, before it was formally opened. That's what it's got to be pointed at. Where do you get the idea that there's some time line, some time limit, or a distinction from when and until you can or can't talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Furthermore, Article 225 of Rule 1 states: "The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary to perform the function of the MP." Whenever we report to Article 225, we feel, in fact, that we did not have this notice in good time and that this is why we point out Article 225(1)'s injury in relation to Article 226. This shall be reported on that basis and shall meet all the forms required in Article 1(1). Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5046	The MP who seeks and gets his word on the basis of what he wants to say about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and then says about the speaker – I do not want to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, leaves no other option but to thank him for trying to use or abuse the Rules of Procedure. There are probably many people in this room who understand how important the procedure is for institutions like the National Assembly, how important the language of the procedure is. Please, if we all agree that we are creative and we have a silent agreement on the use and abuse of the Rules of Procedure, to invest so much knowledge that, using the Rules of Procedure, we do not disrespect the National Assembly. A measure that can be said when the MP asks for a word of injury to the Rules of Procedure, stands by the pay phone and says: I do not want to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, is a measure of caution. Not considering it appropriate or necessary, I do not want to interfere with criminal measures, in any way, the MPs who want to, indeed, speak about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and to get the word on the basis of Article 100, but in form, in a language that can be in a stenogram and which expresses fundamental respect for the National Assembly, to 250 of us who participate in this work. National MP Zeljko Tomic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5047	I call on the President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to call on Article 225: "The Members of Parliament shall have the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the exercise of the function of the Members of Parliament", and of Article 77(2), which shall speak of the Assembly committees: "The Chair of the Committee shall convene a session of the Committee at the request of at least one-third of the total number of members of the Committee, i.e. one-third of the full composition of the Committee, in the sense of Article. 24th and 42nd of this Rules of Procedure, as well as at the request of the President of the National Assembly." What I must say is that for more than four months, this assembly of parliament is existing and several committees have not yet been established, such as the Committee on Local Self-Government, the Committee on the Reduction of Poverty and the Committee on International Relations, which I already mentioned ten days ago, referring, too, to this member of the Rules of Procedure. I'll remind you, we had one event at the time. It was the current autumn session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where a resolution on the state and international relations in Serbia was found on the agenda. Our MPs there, Mr Milos Aligrudić and Mrs Elvira Kovac, have, with their skill, turned the text of Resolution to our advantage, to put it so briefly. We have witnessed, two or three days ago, members of the Committee on International Relations, this is another topic that the Committee, in my opinion, must deal with, the following call: "Dear Mr Parliament, we are providing you with information on a visit to the delegation of the Council of Europe's Framework Conference on the Protection of National Minorities. The host of the delegation is the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, and the delegation of the Committee has expressed its wish that on Monday, November 3rd, that is, in just a few days, 'in time from 17 to 18 hours, to be admitted to the National Assembly'. Who's gonna take them? The board has not been established. Will the Secretary of the Committee see them? That is why I am calling on this article in 77 and we are asking the President of the Assembly to use this business law, to finally appeal and influence the Committees to establish themselves. Who's gonna talk and who's gonna host? Who will work with the Council of Europe? Don't embarrass us. We will be there, but we know who has to be, the President of the Committee, and who will represent the views of both the Parliaments and the whole of Serbia on these issues for which gentlemen from the Council of Europe are coming to us. We haven't formed four other committees in over four months. Don't embarrass yourself anymore. How are we going to get out in front of the people of the Council of Europe? Who's going? The Committee's secretary, with full respect for Mr. Vlada Tosic, will he discuss the current state of affairs of national communities in Serbia, or will the president or vice president of the Committee do so? That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5048	The final item of the sitting agenda, which is under way, is both proposed and requested by the parliamentary groups, amendments and additions of members of the Assembly committees. So, without doubting that the Committee on International Relations is not at that point in the agenda, I assume that by voting on amendments and, of course, by completing the constitution of the board where there are no amendments to the proposals, the committees will begin their work. I suppose the President of the National Assembly knows that it is the seven committees and that, on the basis of the proposal of the National Assembly President and on the basis of the request of the board members, the other committees will be established. The word has been given by MP Milan Dimitrijevic, he received his word on the basis of article 100. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5049	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that you have quoted Article 100 of attitude 1 as giving me your word. I'm advocating a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27, Section 3 - 'The President of the National Assembly takes care of the application of the Rules of Procedure', and since you're replacing it, then I was thinking of you. I'm advertising Article 104, and at the same time I want to talk about members 225 and 226. So, Madam Vice President, you simply, you don't want, by your behavior, this assembly to work. When MPs come out to open the wound, try to point out some developments in the state and society, you take away their word, to lead the dialogue afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5050	I ask you, People's Messengers, that you do not give lies to the speaker of the National Assembly. It is a very serious accusation to take away the word of any MP who is behind the speaker of the National Assembly. I call upon you to choose carefully the words when we address, regardless of whether it is a request for words based on Article 100(1) or in any part of the debate you are taking part in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5051	You're denying me the right to speak, I'm sorry, I didn't exactly express myself. So at the same time, you are conducting a dialogue with the MPs from both the first, second or third order, explaining some of their actions or some of their interpretations. This violates Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Now let me continue on Article 104(1). "The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly." So, last night, on a television show, it seems to me on RTS, one of the MPs who I don't think is present right now, he said one false thing - the MPs have a salary of 250,000 dinars. It may refer to those MPs who have two or more functions at the same time, so, perhaps, the salaries of the MP add the salary of the president of the municipality. That could be the sum of it. Please respond from the National Assembly, do I, as a National MP, have a salary of 250,000 dinars, so that the public may know that, and I claim that my salary is not half as much? Next thing you know, it's art. 225 and 226. For three days now, there has been a controversy in Belgrade over the shift of directors of three clinical-patient centres and several directors of health homes in the city of Belgrade. That's a very serious problem. So, one party, which calls for the policy not to be mixed in the area of management in health companies, gave a proposal for a non-partisan person at the place of the city's health secretary, who resigned after seven days, so the Belgrade Health Department and the City Secretariat waited 15-20 days to appoint another city health secretary, so that the other city health secretary, simply, ignoring his opportunities and what his legal powers were, would allow himself to replace the directors of clinical and hospital centres and directors of health homes at the press conference, without checking the information. So, the three KBCs that are based on a large number of Serbian citizens, which from the direction of Smederev and Pomorava, I mean the KBC of "Stars", the KBC of "Beige Hair", which is based on the inhabitants of Srema, the KBC of "Zemun", which is based on the people of Banat, are in one specific state. These people don't know if they've been replaced or not. Are the directors of KBC's shifts being held at the press conference? It is a serious problem in the city of Belgrade. Parties that delegate their candidates for high political functions must, before teaching them what their powers are, above all, make them take a state exam to work in state authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5052	No violation of Article 100 or Article 27 or Article 104. On the basis of Art. In 225 and 226 information is received from the area of the rights and responsibilities of the MPs, not about the infringement of the procedure, and we have already clearly, with each other, changed the information that we will quietly agree to abuse the Rules of Procedure when it is said that information is necessary per Article. 225 and 226 necessary for the work of Members. For the questions you have asked and concerning the areas of health, I ask the service to send a stenogram of your presentation to the Ministry of Health and to provide you with the information you need to work. For the second question you asked - about the level of pay, I believe that we all know what our salaries are, so it is abuse of the Rules of Procedure, art. 225th and 226, which can also be the basis for a criminal act. Let us not abuse the rights we have agreed to use and use. I thank you for your support and applause for the MPs of the DSS Group, absolutely certain that, if anyone cares – they care about respecting the procedures, respecting the Rules of Procedure and being both legal and legitimate about everything we do in the National Assembly. The word is from MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1). After him, the MPs Marina Ragus, Sreto Peric and Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5053	Mrs. Komic, I'm advertising, first of all, an injury to article 100. I called about the breach of the Rules of Procedure 40 minutes ago, and you saw it and registered it, and I'm only now on my way. I am also reporting in accordance with Article 100, or I am advertising his injury to the beginning of this session, or the situation that you did not give Mr Dragan Todorovic your word, and then, in your explanation of the fact, you injured Article 104. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, or you violated the dignity of the Assembly, because you were not telling the truth, and perhaps you were in a dilemma, since you were not a lawyer, as you just said, so you did not know whether or not you were wrong, or you broke the Rules of Procedure. So that I don't read, I'm going to explain to you what I think and how I think. In fact, today, when you sat down in that place, very clearly, crystal clear, you started the session. You have even determined how many MPs there are in the O.R., and after that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 88, you have informed whom you have invited and who is not present, and then, in an explanation, you have told Mr Todorovic, once, that the session has not even begun work, so he has nothing to get the right to harm the Rules of Procedure, and then, later, you have said that we have not moved on to the agenda, and yet he has no right to get word about the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Komic, you are a man whose parliamentary experience is not lacking, and you should know that this session began work a few days ago, with not interrupting the session by the end of each item of the agenda, but when the agenda is exhausted. Advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, absolutely, has nothing to do with whether the sitting is spoken about the agenda or whether it is a period between two points of the agenda. Somehow I get the impression, Mrs Comic, that whenever an arrogance is to be brought into Parliament's work, they send you to sit there. You're a person, I want to believe, who doesn't lack human or political virtues. Don't let yourself, don't bring Parliament into this situation. As Vice-President of the Assembly, you have absolutely no right to violate the Rules of Procedure and to destroy the dignity of the Republika Srpska Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5054	Article 100 hasn't been broken, explanation given. So, by opening the debate on details and opening the agenda, none of the MPs is damaged by the right to receive word of violation of the Rules of Procedure, which we are all witnesses to, but the work of the Rules of Procedure, when it comes to holding a session, will be and there will be no abuse of the Rules of Procedure to such a extent that, even if we do not open a point of the agenda in the discussion of details, the law that is before us, but that we are exclusively abused by the Rules of Procedure, wanting to say what we consider important, rightly, to all citizens and citizens of Serbia. So there was no violation of Article 100. You've made an observation that you're only now coming to the agenda for the word. Since the beginning of the announcement of all MPs to speak of the Rules of Procedure, I have said as many names as there have been in the application. I know there is a desire to come for a pay phone as soon as possible, but there are simply a number of MPs who see that there is an injury to the procedure during the session and who want to talk about it. In one wave, I made a slip and apologized to MP Sreti Periæ, who was supposed to speak, or it was MP Marko Milankovic. He was really an oversight, because the secretary's making a list. The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5055	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope that fellow MPs will have enough understanding for all of us who are in the media darkness and who have no other option than this assembly speaker, to respond or raise certain questions that we consider to be vital to life. What are new circumstances, and I hope that the chairman will also help me, in terms of the jurisdiction of certain state authorities and ministries, are, in fact, the circumstances concerning aggression against the SRJ in 1990 and the question of Račka. One of the chief forensicsmen, Helen Ranta, published an autobiographical book in Finland last week, saying that under the coercion of Mr. Walker, she wrote an almost falsified report. Just to remind you that before that, in the documentary "The End and Condemned to Persecution", she told Russian authors Yevgeni Baran and Alexander Zamislov that Walker was terrified of the results of her investigation. I quote Helen Rant: "I was confused and I wasn't ready to answer. These bodies belonged to terrorists, Serbian soldiers and village residents." This report that I'm showing right now has never been published, and its contents are little anyone knows. Now I'm ready to talk publicly about the results of the investigation. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, of course, are the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and I thank you for attending the meetings of the National Assembly. I refer to a specific question to all the competent authorities, given that this opens up some new circumstances of aggression against the SRJ, that it is about new facts. A concrete issue of the SRS Parliament Club – what will the state of Serbia and the competent authorities do about the new facts, that the aggression against the SRJ has been extorted by pressure on forensics and was based on a completely falsified report? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5056	I can't tell you right now who you'd like to send the information you need to work, except for the easy response – to the government of the Republic of Serbia, but I think it would be good for the committees of the National Assembly, first of all, the KIM Committee, to take this seriously at one of the sessions. That is what I can recommend and the president of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, to contact the Committee president and to open a debate on the subject. The word is from MP Jadranko Vukovic, who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. He's not in the O.R. right now. People's MP Pai Momchilov wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5057	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, during yesterday I objected and advertised a member of our 24th Rules of Procedure. Also, Mrs. Komic, as Mr. Dragan Todorovic said, I like to listen to your arguments and ask that you give me an answer now, since yesterday I did not get an answer to the clearly defined apparition of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. I quote: "Employment groups propose members of each committee to a proportion of the number of MPs they have in the National Assembly." The first question that is raised here is – how is it possible that on the assembly official website it continues to say that the SRS has two parliamentary clubs? That's not true, that's not true. A group of citizens, I think, founded a party and I don't think they could possibly be subjected to the SRS. You know we have 30 committees. Yesterday I showed you, if you're a group of 20 people, which you still classify as belonging to the SRS, measure precisely, that's 8% of our call of 250 MPs. If you measure a group that is truly the Serbian Radical Party with the same criterion, it is 24% of the MPs. Look at the situation, you have a Board of Education and there are three members of the group that you continue to call the SRS, and I think that the group of citizens has defined themselves differently and that they absolutely do not belong to the SRS. In that same committee, it's three members, 20% of the board is taking over, and we'd have to take 8%. How do you, as the ruling majority, as someone who manages the work of the Assembly and takes care of the provision of legality and the Rules of Procedure, tolerate such a situation? In that same Education Committee, the SRS only has one representative, that's 6%, and 24% of the seats would belong to us on that committee. You tolerate illegal, day after day, and you always honor us here to abide by the Rules of Procedure and the Law. Now you mention the KIM Committee. At the head of that committee, there's a citizen who hasn't called in since July, and yet you don't mind. I don't want to go too far. Please give me the exact answer to what I've just told you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5058	On the website of the National Assembly there are, or should exist, since neither you nor I currently have an insight into the website, exclusively parliamentary groups formed in accordance with Article 23. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, composed exclusively of Members of the People's Parliaments and MPs who have all the rights and responsibilities arising from the entrusted mandate of the Members of Parliament. As far as the composition of the committee is concerned, the final point in today's session is to be amended and complemented by committees and, other than that, there will be room to say within that point whether it is well-conceived or not, the amendments and additions go according to agreement and on the basis of Rules of Procedure, by nature of things, to each of the National Assembly sessions. I think there was information that, in the event that no agreement has been reached at the end of the session of all parliamentary groups, however, we will decide on the amendments and additions of members of the Committee of the National Assembly. The MP says he's given specific figures. I repeat, on the website of the National Assembly, only parliamentary groups are formed in accordance with Article 23. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and members of the Committee may exclusively be Members of the Assembly. What you said was an interpretation, which you are entitled to, but I cannot answer your comment and interpretation. The word is made by MP Jadranko Vukovic, who wants a word about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets it on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5059	Ms. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Article 226 and asking for a notice and explanation from Mr. Tadic, the president of the state, is he behind the tycoon party formed by Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic? Ladies and gentlemen, in front of everyone, in front of Serbian citizens, I say, I am making a statement that Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic are two new tycoons, no longer close to the tycoons. Mrs. Comic, I'd like you to distract Nadia Kolundji from throwing me away, because it's very important what I tell you. Why am I saying this? If I'm not telling the truth, I'm ready to answer to the authorities. The Democratic Party, Mrs Kolundzija, and Boris Tadic have formed a tycoon party, we have evidence of that. Mrs. Komic, I ask Boris Tadic to answer my question – is he familiar with what we are in the SRS? When he left the party, a certain Zoran Korać took him to the American Embassy, was not invited to the Embassy, but was taken, went to the US ambassador, the US ambassador invited an English ambassador and said, in front of a small Serbian 'laufer' who was inside, we have him at the American Embassy – any kind of support to this guest to provide, both materially, and media, and every other. If I'm lying to this, let me answer. At the American Embassy, Tomislav was taken away. Does Boris Tadic know about this? He was taken by Zoran Korach, I don't know who he is. I know he's close to the U.S. and the U.S. CIA. What's this about? Is parliamentary life in Serbia shut down? Will the Americans form our parties, determine the number of mandates? Say, plead, and then we'll be clear. We're not going to take part in this, Mrs. Kolundjia, and for what I'm saying, we have evidence. I repeat, you will be ashamed to go into a deal with Tomislav Nikolic, you of the DS who are honorable, I believe there are honorable men in that party too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5060	The word has been given by MP Petar Jojic, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word on Article 100(1), so MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5061	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am speaking to the President, the Vice-President who runs the Assembly, and I am requesting one notice, within the meaning of the provisions of Articles 225 and 226. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 36, norms and guarantees the right to equal protection of rights and of legal means. In particular, Article 36(1) guarantees equal protection of rights against courts and other state bodies, public authorities and autonomous province authorities and local self-government units. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is amended as follows: "Each one has the right to appeal or another remedy against a decision which decides on his right, obligation or law-based interest". I ask a question to the Assembly, to the Legislative Committee, to the Government, is the MP who has been given a reminder or to take away a word has the right to appeal, or to object, or to any other remedy against a decision, if an unwarranted reminder is made of taking away words or moving away from the session? Don't count on me this time, please. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Rules of Procedure of Bundestaga, paragraph 39, it is prescribed that a warning against law enforcement or the exclusion of members may, until the next plenary session, file a written complaint. In accordance with international comparative law, I propose to the Legislative Committee, I propose to the Assembly to review and, if it can, emulate the decision-making by the chairman of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, and also with comparative international law. Madam Chairman, please reconsider your decision to impose a criminal measure on Natasha Jovanovic. Your emotions may have been at the peak of that moment, at the beginning of the session itself, but I ask you at this moment to order the service to provide us with a stenogram on the beginning of the session, related to the part relating to the confiscation of the words to Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, to make sure that your decision was just, correct, correct, appropriate, and whether it was in accordance with the Constitution and with the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking the congregation department to provide me with a stenogram, so I can see for myself the correctness of making such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5062	People's MPs, decisions to make are subject to the work of the Administrative Committee, and you know it, as all of us know 250. The Management Board shall therefore consider any measure expressed and determine whether it will be adopted or not. The Management Board may, of course, invite the chairperson to its session, or the chairperson, who chaired the meeting at the time of the measure, and at the session of the Administrative Board, to determine how the infringement occurred. Your proposal concerns amendments to the Rules of Procedure and is in no way related to Article. 225 and 226, unless you think you need information about when we're going to bring in a new Rules of Procedure, which will allow there to be no abuse, which I cannot answer. The right to object and quote the Bundestag Rules of Procedure shall have no consequences for events during the sitting. As each of us should adhere to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, so must the MP who has the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly. I think I have already made it very clear twice that there has been a statement of the second warning, and then there has been a confiscation of words, because of the insistence of the People's Parliament to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to treat the MPs with disdain. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5063	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, it is obvious that whenever you chair, you have trouble holding a session. That could be for two reasons. First reason you haven't studied this Rules of Procedure enough. There are solutions. Each of the People's MPs of the Serbian Radical Party will help you to do so, but I suggest, however, that it be official, to address the secretary or deputy secretary. Another problem can be because you have examined this Rules of Procedure. There's no help there anymore. You heard it when it comes to someone - overforsulated, or overdosed, and then what happens. Indeed, since the morning you have been putting a great deal of pressure on the MPs, you have violated Article 27 of Paragraph 1 of indent 3, where it is said to be – the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by the President of the National Assembly, and at this point you, as vice president of the National Assembly. You called me before 15 MPs, and now I'm on my way. It's no problem, I'll say what I thought and then I'll say it. You gave the measure of taking the words to the MP Natasa Jovanovic. It is a folk MP for the Serbian Radical Party that always appears where it is most difficult. She won't listen to me, but I would tell her, if she met you at the entrance to the National Assembly, to turn her back on you, that you wouldn't recognize her, because you might tell her, perhaps, a measure of warning or something like that. If she wanted to listen to me, maybe she'd be okay. Furthermore, the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, when she spoke, explained it, called for a member of our 201st Rules of Procedure. I quote that member, so I ask you not to count on me the time: 'After answering the parliamentary question given, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment, for a maximum period of five minutes, on the answer to his question or to ask an additional question. After receiving an answer to the additional question, the MP has the right to declare his response for a maximum of five minutes. ''You are very often, when you comment on Article 201, you declare that this concerns the rights of Members of Parliament, but read all the members where the questions of MPs are spoken, from Art. In 198 to 202, you will see that no member has been told and no MP is bound when, unsatisfactory with the answer given, he will be able to report and comment on it. I'm asking you to come to your senses, and I said there are two ways to solve this issue. To take the opportunity, in accordance with the article. 225 and 226, to explain to me, that I would use this as a national MP, who gave the order to the electronic media, and the contrary to the decision of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, to transfer the promotion of political parties, when it is well known that, according to the decision of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, there is no possibility of such a thing if elections are not called? Was that not agreed at the time when Mr Nikolic was found, or was he taken, as counterpart Vukovic said, to the US Embassy, that it was not then said to violate the decision of the Republic Broadcasting Agency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5064	I thank you for your instructions to improve your work. I wish we could all start by respecting the duration of three minutes, that would already be a great contribution to improving the quality of work. You've said a breach to the Rules of Procedure, Article 201. Article 201 refers to a parliamentary question. The parliamentary questions are being asked either after the end of all the agenda points, or at a special session of the National Assembly, which, at the request of any parliamentary group, is scheduled by the President of the National Assembly. There can be no injury to a member who edits the procedure for a session that isn't under way. When and when he is injured, he will have the right to say that he is a injured member of 201. As far as art is concerned. In 225 and 226 you called for information, I would ask the National Assembly to direct part of the National MP Sreta Peric's stenogram concerning the search for information on who gave the warrant to the contrary RRA's decision on the transfer of political meetings. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic. Seek the word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure, and after it, the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5065	Ladies and gentlemen, based on the article. 225 and 226, requesting notice on why the RRA rules have been violated and why is it possible to transfer some founding assembly of parties that did not participate in the elections, at a time when no election campaign is under way? Also, based on an article. 225th and 226, requesting notice on why Article 102 is not respected. Serbia's Constitution? ''The People's MP is free to, under certain conditions, irrevocably'', repeat, irrevocably, 'put his mandate at the disposal of the political party on which the proposal was elected as a MP. ''So, I ask for information whether the Constitution is still, at least formally, stronger than Mr. Manter's will, Mr. Wardsworth and Mr. Miskovic's wealth? Finally, in this context, it is certainly necessary to bear in mind both the principled and honorable attitude of Mrs Maja Gojkovic, a lawyer and politician, who in today's "News" urged the group around Nikolic to return the mandates of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5066	I ask the service that the question asked by MP Dejan Mirovic, also directs the RRA, by what you said "rules". Should we stay "rules" or "decision"? National MP Sreto Peric said "the decision", and you said "the rules". National MP Dejan Mirovic agrees that the issue asked by MP Sreto Peric in the same text in the stenogram will also be delivered on his behalf. The word is a folk letter from the Prophet of Rade, and after it is the Messenger of the people, Srboljub Zivanovic. The word is given on the basis of a desire to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5067	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from my last announcement to this moment, Mrs Comic has repeatedly injured Article 27, Article 100 of the 1st and 3rd and Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'll start from the beginning, of course, within three minutes allowed, and if I don't finish, I'm asking the Deputy Secretary immediately to record it so I can proceed with the next call when I get to the turn. I'm very patient, I have no problem waiting. You, Mrs. Comic, about an hour ago caused a major panic among Serbian citizens. We're stuck here with messages and phone calls. They ask citizens what's going on, what kind of law you've passed, because when you tried to answer Mr. Todorovic for the violation of the Rules of Procedure he drew your attention to, you said that the law on the confiscation of acquired property would apply from the 1st to the last member. The citizens are very concerned, asking if it's possible that you've passed a law on confiscation of acquired property. What does that mean? Here, I am asking you, I am informing the citizens that we have not passed such a law, that there has been a speech and that the law on the confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts should be passed, so that, citizens who have not acquired the property in the criminal act, do not be afraid, unless Mrs. Komic knows something that DS prepares, and what the rest of us MPs do not yet know. When it comes to Article 100 of the 1st and 3th, which you regularly and regularly violate, Mrs. Comic, I must first draw your attention that, now it is Article 101, you have tried to deny the word of Zoran Krasic and Sretić according to the Rules of Procedure. You were not acting in accordance with Article 1, when you were obliged to give them your word when they were in the order of reporting. Before Zoran Krasic, you called your colleague Marko Milenkovic, and only when his colleague Krasic intervened, did you say it was a mistake. You can't make that kind of mistake in that place. I, like my colleague Krasic, who just walked in, we are convinced that you did not want to allow Mr Krasic to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Article 100(3), which you have also broken several times, I will explain next time, because it has just expired three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5068	I thank you for your careful listening and inform all of those citizens and citizens of Serbia who, disturbed by the wrong or incomplete name of the title of the law I spoke of, have addressed the People's Parliament to Veriqa Radeti or any other, have no reason to be disturbed. So it's about our firm desire and our intention to together, both the opposition and the ruling majority, we control every letter and the application of all members of the law on the confiscation of property acquired on the basis of a felony. So, all those who work and make money have no reason to be upset, but thank you for pointing to the slip. Your desire to talk about the violation of Article 100, pages 1 and 3. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, in a very short time frame, MPs raise their hands, or Rules of Procedure, wanting to get word, because they noticed that there were errors and violations of procedures and, at the same time, we recorded the names of the secretary, and I, and any of the vice-presidents who were at the sitting at that moment at the chair. You're right, the chairman shouldn't be wrong in order. Once again, I apologize to the People's Messenger, Sreti Periæ, for there is no intention, nor has there ever been, nor will there be, that I may in any way desecrate the intention of any MP, that, when he has the right to receive the word of the Rules of Procedure, he may receive the word. The word, based on article 100, on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, followed by MPs Momir Markovic and Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5069	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I must tell you that last night was the session of the Committee on Industry, which I was present with and us who I saw a great disunity of position, namely the disunity of government. The problem was, ladies and gentlemen, this is where I wanted to chart, between manufacturers, intermediaries and consumers, and about the price of gas. The problem was not between the producer and the consumer, but rather the problem with the mediators. The money the intermediary was supposed to take from the transaction is about 35m euros. That was the problem. Last night I heard representatives of the G17 say that the government's great irresponsibility, that semi-information, also related to the government, is the high irresponsibility of the finance ministry in terms of gas prices. I'm asking you, who did, and in what way did you decide to increase the price of gas? Did it bring a position, or did it bring the opposition? Did one political party bring it, or did your coalition bring it, which at this point wants to wash its hands from it, believing it would collect some political points? But behind that, something else is hiding. I think last night the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, because it was one of those same personalities, in fact, wanted to discover which political party should be replaced by a newly formed political traitor, who is likely to take their place. It seems to me that last night was the goal, and in fact, the board members understood. You see, today at 11.30 p.m., there was a new conference of the Industry Committee, where they asked for the Minister of Industry, Mr. Skundric, to come, of course, and the other accompanying services that are related to this ministry. Next, it's about the old debt. Here comes the end of my story, but I'll keep going. Mr. Djelic said...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5070	People's MP, it's been three minutes, please say which member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5071	Articles 225 and 226.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5072	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. He wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and he gets his word on the basis of an article. The 100th century is the 1st century.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5073	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems that the violation of the Rules of Procedure has become a rule of conduct by the chairman, so it often happens that he does not break the Rules of Procedure once or twice during the session. It's a severe wound to article 106. Rules of Procedure, on the rude violation of Article 201. The Rules of Procedure, because when you give notice and punishment, mostly, to the MPs of the SRS, just to remind you, it comes back for a while and don't be surprised that, say, you're lying at home sick of the flu, watching TV and getting information that you got a warning. I remind you that, in time, this democratic government punished MPs who were in Igal, were not in the session at all, it seems to me that it was Mr Bozidar Vučurovic, punishing MPs who were not there at all, were in Batajnica and lying sick of the flu, it seems to me to be about Mr Stevi Dragisic. Therefore, it is no wonder, when they were able to rule out the entire parliamentary group, why not now. I think the president misread it. Please refuse this time, because I quote the Rules of Procedure: "After answering the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment, for a maximum period of five minutes, on the answer to his question or to ask an additional question. After receiving an answer to the additional question, the MP has the right to declare his response for a maximum of five minutes." All of Mrs. Komic's answers are up to five minutes, so five minutes times two, then every comment. I don't know, today she's downsized the length of her comments, probably something sick. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is no wonder, when in the Assembly of Belgrade, a city of two and a half million inhabitants, the mayor of such a assembly can swear in the most vulgar and primitive way of the council, then try to transfer the "nice" practice here as well. Don't be surprised when they start sending us away from the chair and cursing and sending us to certain birthplaces. There's one more thing, I think he's going to run for one of the prizes to contribute to language improvement. They invented a new verb called "touch." One of the council members of the City Assembly, I don't think he's some kind of official, says, "Don't make me pick you up." I'd like an explanation. I've read Kline, I've read Vujaklia, I've searched it, and there's no word to gush. What does it mean to be trunked? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I warn you that you do not accidentally attempt to glean one of the MPs of the SRS, it will not work.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5074	Members 106 and 201, for which MP Momir Markovic said were injured, were not violated. Article 201 refers to a session asking parliamentary questions. So, at the end of the end of all the agendas of any session, or at a session which, at the request of any parliamentary group, the National Assembly president schedules and invites the Prime Minister, all or some of the ministers, that is a session to which Article 201 applies, that the MPs are asked immediately, that the minister responds and that then the MP has the right to say that he is not satisfied with the answer, so it is working It can't, since I don't have a statement, but I'm explaining to you that there's no breach of Article 201, absolutely certain that you know that, as we're all sure as we all here know we're reading the Rules of Procedure. [[Momir Markovic, throws out the place: 'Can I have a replica?']] As for your language concerns, I can't help you. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word, followed by MP Milan Vesenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5075	Ladies and gentlemen, I have previously addressed the Assembly and the chairman of the assembly stenogram, which is probably recorded today. Please, if possible, to get it, so I can participate in the work and see if I've made a mistake in my assessment. On the other hand, I am asking the Vice-President of the Assembly to answer to me by the department of power, does the MP have the right, in the sense of the provisions of the Constitution, to make a written complaint or appeal to the chairman's decision on the reminders and to say the measure of taking the words or disfellowshipping from the session? All I ask is for a notice whether he has the right, if the Constitution guarantees it, to make a complaint or not? Then, in expressing these disciplinary measures, because in parallel they are called disciplinary measures, is he entitled to object or not? Secondly, is the authority which has made the commitment to make a written decision, to appeal to the provisions of certain regulations, so that, if it has the right, the MP may file a complaint, or appeal? I just wanted so much to ask and ask for a notice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5076	The information you need, I'm sure you know. When the chairman utters a reminder, one by one, and one by one, or one by one, it is not a decision. It shall be decided by the Administrative Board. Please find, within the framework of what is a silent agreement on the use and abuse of the Rules of Procedure, a common measure. So, you certainly know better than I do, given your professional education, that by speaking the measures we do not make a decision and that there is no question of objecting, because there is no decision. Decision whether the penalties will not be taken by the Administrative Board. I have already given such an answer, so I ask you not to abuse the Rules of Procedure beyond the measure that implies the framework of a tolerated agreement to be allowed, as one of the MPs has said, the creative interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milan Avramovic insists that we do not have a chairman of the Administrative Committee. The National Assembly has the chairman of the Administrative Committee and this is MP Tomislav Nikolic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milan Veselinović. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5077	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as well as yesterday in the afternoon work, are today breaking the Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Serbia by the chairman, by the vice-president, Mrs Comic, who also irritates the MPs who attend here, especially the citizens of Serbia. I am advertising the breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 226, which reads as follows: "The Members of the People have the right to request notice and explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on matters covered by the rights and duties of these officials and the competences of the authorities at which they are headed, and which they need in order to carry out the function of the Members of the People's Parliament". These questions, ladies and gentlemen of the people, which I want to ask and to which I want to get explanations and clarifications from the authorities, are very important for the citizens of Serbia. What affects the citizens of Serbia most is the affair over the collection of gas and the signing of the arrangement that was spoken of yesterday, then the enormous collection of telephone services, which directly threatens the budget of Serbian citizens, then the announcement of the gatherings that will go in line with these gatherings that I have listed, then the schedule of EULEX forces in the KIM area, which continues and which, unfortunately, supports the majority that are here today and which makes up the majority of the assembly. Individuals are already making public statements about this, and this directly affects the survival of Serbs in the Kim area. This is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and to the resolutions on Kosovo and Metohija so far. Then there is the Statute of Vojvodina, where the government of Vojvodina is declared, so I wanted the Serbian government to find out what kind of relationship the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Vojvodina will be in. However, it is not until the end of the statute that these ministries are and which are the competences of these ministries in the Statute of Vojvodina. Then, to mention something very important, the protection of the state border, as I live in a space where the minister is, close to the state border with Montenegro and the administrative borders towards KIM. What will the Ministry of Police do to protect Serbia's border towards other states and to deploy on the administrative border those forces that can prevent the flow and smuggling of certain narcotics, weapons, ammunition, to mass cutting of forests in that area?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5078	National MP Dobrislav Prelic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. After him, the word has a folk letter from the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5079	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to talk about the violation of Article 31: "The Vice President of the National Assembly is helping the president of the National Assembly to do business from his work. The President of the National Assembly, in the event of temporary prevention, replaces one of the vice presidents of the National Assembly whom he appoints and informs all vice presidents and secretaries of the National Assembly. "Mrs. Comić, I deliberately emphasized a little – all the vice presidents. I asked Miss Natasa Jovanovic if she was informed by the National Assembly president that you would be replacing her today. She said she didn't. Knowing Ms. Jovanovic, I am sure Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic did not inform her. Since you have a great desire to chair the National Assembly, I think you should have agreed before the National Assembly president was elected. We sometimes find that interesting, I trust the citizens of Serbia, but I don't think the way you conduct the sessions is appropriate. Today you took away Miss Natasha Jovanovic's word, and I'm sure she just wanted to help you with your presidency today. You had no reason to. The only reason you chair is to implement the dictatorship of the "yellow company" and President Boris Tadic, because the way he runs Serbia simply requires that of all members who are in office in the DS. That's more than clear. Mrs. Comic, I must tell you that Serbia is on its knees and that you are in a hurry to pass laws. Today is our agenda, after you broke the Rules of Procedure and read the agenda, the state border law. About what state border, Mrs. Comic, when President Tadic says EULEX is acceptable, for three reasons? What state border, when a new Statute of Vojvodina was adopted in the District Assembly in Vojvodina, on Wednesday, on the most heard radio in Vojvodina, the President of the Executive Council of Vojvodina Bojan Pajtic said and addressed the citizens of Vojvodina with the words "Good Morning Vojvodina, we are finally free"? I think that urgently here, in this high house, President Tadic and the complete government should come, because they have, above all, a commitment to all Serbian citizens to explain the current situation in which Serbia is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5080	There were no violations of Article 31. Rules of Procedure. As for the vindication of the second warning and the confiscation of words, you are mistaken that the MP was trying to help. The warning would not have been made if it had not been clear that he did not respect the dignity of the National Assembly and that he was speaking with disdain to the MPs of the people. Your interest in what the problems with the state border are likely to be satisfied as soon as we move to a debate in the details of the law on the agenda. As for your request for President Tadic's arrival, the President of the Republic can come to the National Assembly only on the invitation of the National Assembly President, and on completely special occasions. Otherwise, he has no reason, nor can he, according to the Constitution or the Rules of Procedure, address the MPs of the people, unlike the Government, for which I fully agree with you, that a representative of the motionors must be in front of the MPs always and constantly, and that he should be at meetings where we will really be asking parliamentary questions, where the representatives of the Government and all ministers will sit. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. He wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, so MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5081	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going on where I left off. You, Mrs. Comic, when I was talking about Article 27's injury, said I was right, thank you for warning you, yes, there was a slip. So you can't make a slip, you can just break or don't break the Rules of Procedure. If you have admitted that there has been a failure, then that means that you have violated the Rules of Procedure and I am asking that the National Assembly, in the day of the vote, be clear about whether you have violated the Rules of Procedure, that I am not going back to it now. There were words about whether you gave your word to a colleague or not to meet Peric. We're passing a law on confiscation of acquired property, etc. I remind you that you have violated, that, in fact, you are permanently in violation of Article 100(3), because every time the MP advertises the Rules of Procedure and draws attention to how you violate the Rules of Procedure, instead of acting in accordance with Article 100(3) and giving an explanation based on what the MP said, you say every time – or, there were no violations of the Rules of Procedure, or I did not hurt the Rules of Procedure. You, Mrs. Komic, can't say that, nor can anyone ask you to, it doesn't allow you, first of all, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You can say that you believe that you worked in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so you can ask the MP whether he is in agreement with your explanation, but that you claim that you did not violate the Rules of Procedure, that is impossible. That can only be said by the National Assembly in the voting day, and since you keep repeating it, and not just today, I ask that this injury that I am now talking about be declared in the day of the vote. Also, I want all the violations of the Rules of Procedure that I have spoken about today and that I will speak of, for a certain reason, the National Assembly, in the day of voting, to be made clear, whether or not there have been injuries to the Rules of Procedure. I repeat, you can't claim it, because if you're the autocrat who's going to say it - I didn't break the Rules of Procedure, then we have nothing to talk about here. I still have to explain how you violated Article 104, but in the next report.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5082	There's no injury to this member, and I'm saying it because I think so. The National Assembly will, of course, make a final decision at the request of the MPs. I have only the obligation to explain to you why I don't think there was any breach of the Rules of Procedure, and in case any of the MPs came forward and said there were injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and I agree, then there's no need to explain, because we're a folk MP who wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and I, as chairman, in that case agreeing that there's been an injury, there's no one to explain anything. In order to explain something, it must be said that there is an injury to a member who is not quoted by the MP at the pay phone. And in this case that you have now stated, there is no violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to turn off their cell phones during the session of the National Assembly. The work of mobile phones is also banned in far less important places than the National Assembly, so please turn off all your mobile phones. The word of the messenger of the people is Petar Jojic; after him is the messenger of the people, Sulejman Spaho. National MP Petar Jojic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5083	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, yesterday I asked one question, and I did not formulate it well, because I didn't have enough time at the end to ask a question and round it up, so it would be clear. Ladies and gentlemen of the People, I ask a question and ask for an answer, so please, Madam President, that you forward this question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that the Government will answer me. First of all, is it true that they sold "Frikom", "Somboled", "Inteks-Mladenovac", "Belgrade" paper factory, "Jelen Do", "BIGZ", "Diamant", "Dunavka" – Large Gradisture, Erdevik, Stražilovo, Sremski Karlovci, "Podunavlje" – Baka Palanka, "Milenium Insurance" and "Rotografika" – Subotica", and is it true that these companies are sold to customers from Croatia? I demand that I be provided with the information and at what cost have these companies been sold individually, and who was the signator of the agreement on the sale of these real estates in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? One of the questions for the Minister of Agriculture, to provide us with the contracts he concluded with Mr. Todorovic and the mobsters who bought from the highest value in Vojvodina, according to some unofficial data, about 300,000 hectares of the best agricultural land, and this was the company "Todoric" from Croatia. I ask the Minister of Agriculture's answer to the question – at what price and what are the terms of the contract for the sale of the most valuable folk treasure, i.e. This farm land? Ladies and gentlemen, I am taking the opportunity to inform the public, for those citizens who have not been informed, that the elections in the Ruma municipality's Assembly are being repeated on 9 November, so I call on the citizens of the Ruma municipality to prepare themselves, to go to elections and vote for the SRS, because the SRS remains permanent and irreplaceable. Let them vote for Serbian radicals, they will not fail them, as some others have failed both politics and people and their citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5084	I ask the National Assembly's service to forward the presentations to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Privatisation Agency and the Ministry of Agriculture, and I think the service will know from which points no longer to be forwarded to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. National MP Sulejman Spaho wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1) and after that, MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5085	I'm calling in an article. 225 and 226. The public knows that last night the DS Department was founded at the Sava Center. Interestingly, all the TVs were grabbed to broadcast the broadcast, or the event that was directed by DS and Tadic. We know very well that the Republic Broadcasting Agency has strictly banned such events from being broadcast via television. What I must say to the citizens of Serbia, which hurt me as a Serbian radical, man and patriot, is what political fraud Tomislav Nikolic, who last night at the "Sava" centre, said that Dr Vojislav Seselj had put himself above Serbia's interest. That this man says that to the man who went to prison for him, all of us to defend against everything the foreigners have imposed on us, especially America and Germany?- I'm sorry. Dr. Vojislav Seselj put himself above Serbia?- I'm sorry. That's what one political fraud said, who cheated, what he said last night, two million people who voted. They voted for Dr Vojislav Seselj, they did not vote for him, they voted for the SRS. Believe me, I, Spaho Sulejman, am proud to be a Serbian radical because Dr Vojislav Seselj is my president, and thank God that some people came out, mice, from our party, and far away from them, let them walk the paths of DS and Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5086	The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets his word on the basis of Article 100(1), so the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5087	Mrs. Komic, you have injured Article 107(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, by taking away Ms. Natashi Jovanovic's word. In line with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you may have been able to take a warning measure, or other warnings, if that was the case. Article 107(2) provides that the MP is to be taken away from the speaker and that he is moving away from this speaker. How could you take away Miss Natasha Jovanovic's word when she wasn't even behind this pay phone? Given this breach of the Rules of Procedure, I request that the National Assembly, in the day of the vote, be heard about it. I have a question for you, too, Mrs Comic, does Article 226 refer to the President of the Republic of Serbia, or could it be asked by Article 226 to the President of the Republic of Serbia? Here's why I'm asking. A few days ago, I asked Mr. Boris Tadic from this pay phone, and from the ranks of DS MPs, I received a comment – he will answer you! I asked Boris Tadic as a MP and asked that he, according to the Serbian Parliament's Rules of Procedure, answer that question. Does this member also refer to the President of the Republic? If so, was my question forwarded to the address I referred him to? I have questions for Minister Dacic – is it accurate that about 500,000 Shipara in Kosovo has the passports of the Republic of Serbia? On this issue, another question – is it true that more than 17,000 passports, 17,135 passports were issued to the Shiptars in KIM after Kosovo and Metohija were declared an independent state? Another question for the competent state authorities – is there a responsibility and, if there is, what will the competent state authorities do against these six televisions which, contrary to the RRA decision, have carried out the transfer of the founding assembly of this newly formed party, although the decision decidedly states that direct transfers can only be carried out in the event of an election campaign? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5088	National MP, please ask that the last question you asked, if you agree, be in the same text as the question of your colleagues, since we ask RRA why the decision has been broken, and you said – if the decision has been broken, etc. In order to get an answer, are you willing to do so? Thank you. As for the President of the Republic, relations between the National Assembly, the Government, the President of the Republic, the Constitutional Court, are regulated by the laws. Unfortunately, one law is missing - the Law on the National Assembly. By the laws we have in force, which have been passed, the President of the Republic comes only to a special session at the National Assembly and at the special invitation of the President of the National Assembly. Your question may be addressed to the Cabinette, because I repeat, we do not have a law on the National Assembly where these issues could be more detailed. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets his word on the basis of Article 100(1), followed by MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5089	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 106. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly speak about when a notice to the People's Parliament is given, and it is listed: "the speaker who approached the speaker without the permission of the National Assembly president, who speaks before he has asked and received the word, who, despite the warning of the President of the National Assembly, speaks about a question that is not on the agenda, if he interrupts or throws, or interferes with the speaker or otherwise threatens the freedom of speech, if he presents facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons, if he is using swearing and offensive expressions," such as Gilas in the City Assembly, I do not say, "if other proceedings violate order at the sitting or acting against the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. "Article 107 says: "The measure of confiscation of words is expressed to the People's MP who has previously been given two measures of warning, if and after that it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure. "As in the behaviour of counterpart Natasa Jovanovic, I did not recognise anything provided for in Article 106, or 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I took a stenogram and I want to explain to other colleagues and the public that my colleague Jovanovic is not an unconscious MP, but the opposite, and that there was no place to take away words. I won't read everything, Mrs. Comic, says, because they want to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, they reported, so he lists the messengers and asks, has anyone else shown any desire to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure? Of course, Natasa Jovanovic tells her, as a co-worker who helps her, – we are not on bid, that someone will tell her whenever he wants. You have no right to say – hey, will anyone else do the business? Next, you say - I ask the MP Natasa Jovanovic, Vice-President of the Assembly, Natasa interrupts you and says (this was all between you, here), from the place – and I ask you to conduct the session properly, I am here to warn you as Vice-President of the Assembly. So, absolutely, in accordance with its powers and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So, what happens next between 10.20 and 10.30? You end up with words – does anyone else want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? National MP Dragan Zivkov. Those are your words from the stenogram, Mrs. Komic. Then you say, "I ask Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the National Assembly, to address with respect to the MPs. Everything we say at the chair is also heard in direct transmission, and whether or not it is heard, you cannot address the disdaining of the MPs. I'm really asking you not to force me to take a word for it at this session. I take away the word in the course of this session from Natashi Jovanovic's MP. So if there was any reason, it would have to be in the stenogram.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5090	Three minutes and 45 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5091	How long did the quote take?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5092	45 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5093	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5094	I explained several times the way I applied the article. 106th and 107th. I repeat, the Administrative Board, which is responsible for making a decision on punishment, will be scheduled and your objections will be considered and explained, if requested, and the reasons and causes for which I have both issued a second warning and a measure of confiscation of words. I have acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have acted in accordance with my obligation to care for order in the National Assembly and not to allow a threat to the dignity of the National Assembly and to demeaning the way in which anyone addresses any MP. If the MPs want to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, does anyone else want a word besides those reported? Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric. He wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5095	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a violation of article 23. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pages 1 and 2. Paragraph 1 of Article 23 reads: "At the National Assembly, MP groups are educated, as a rule, no later than seven days from the day of election of the National Assembly president." We in this assembly, according to the president and secretary of the National Assembly, have a parliamentary group that was formed on 8 September 2008, meaning three months after the deadline foreseen by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Article 23 paragraph 2: ''Employment group shall consist of the Members of the People's Party of one political party, other political organisations or groups of citizens who have at least five MPs. ''Until yesterday, to their founding assembly, the Serbian Progressive Party, as it is called, did not exist. The parliamentary group, members of the parliamentary group were not members of any political party, as they were excluded from the Serbian Radical Party in the meantime, were not members of any other political organisation, nor were they members of the group of citizens. Therefore, on no basis could they have had their own parliamentary group. Third, Tomislav Nikolic was elected to this assembly as a candidate for the Serbian Radical Party. Here I have confidence in the election for the People's MP, and I ask the camera to show it: 'Convince of the election for the MP. It is determined that Tomislav Nikolic, born on February 15th, 1952, from New Belgrade, Bulevar Zoran Djindjic 45i", I repeat, Bulevar Zoran Djindjic 45i, although a year and a half ago promised to move out of the boulevard,'selected MP to the National Assembly from the Serbian Radical Party's Election List, Dr Vojislav Seselj, in the May 11th elections and repeated at certain polling stations on May 18th 2008. ''I think it is contrary to common sense, and I am absolutely sure that it is the opposite of the Constitution and the law, that Tomislav Nikolic is now an MP here, not only Tomislav Nikolic, but also his fellow Members, to be an MP of another political party, and that political parties that are fighting with all means, are trying to break up the Serbian Radical Party. But that's not the end of madness. You know what's worse than all that? Worse than all that is the fact, it is simply amazing that this supposed parliamentary group did not participate in the elections at all. The Serbian People's Party was founded four months after the election. She now wants to have a parliamentary group formed on the basis of an election held on 11 May 2008. The last thing, here, I'm running out of time, just one sentence. As for this boulevard, Zoran Djindjic, you know that Mr Tomislav Nikolic has given his word that within a few months he will change his address. I suggest he doesn't, I think he lives in the right address. A man who goes through the political boulevard of Zoran Djindjic, and should live in the boulevard of Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5096	Three minutes and 30 seconds. People's MP, no violation of Article 23. Within seven days, and after the election of 11 May and the constitutive session of the Assembly, five parliamentary groups were formed in the National Assembly, and then, Sunday after Sunday, four other parliamentary groups were formed, such as the Parliamentary Group of Minorities. National MP Momir Markovic asks where it says it in the Rules of Procedure. It's not in the Rules of Procedure, I'm giving an explanation. If it was written in the Rules of Procedure, then you wouldn't have to say that the injured member was 23. So, only four and five parliamentary groups were formed, and up to the last parliamentary group formed, the Prosperity Groups Advanced Serbia, formed another four, and now has ten parliamentary groups. All parliamentary groups are formed on the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and are made up of Members of Parliament who have all the rights and responsibilities that arise from the status of the People's Parliament. The other objections you've made are not about the Rules of Procedure, and I can't give you any explanation. How did you link the violation of the Rules of Procedure and the Boulevard of Zoran Djindjic? The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word. He's asking for a word, and he wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. He gets a word based on Article 100(1). After him, the Messenger of the people, Milorad Krstin, and the messenger of the people, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5097	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a lot going on in our society today that depicts a chaos in which our country is located. The reason for my notification under Article 226 concerns the provision of explanations and notifications concerning the interference of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government in the work of judicial authorities and, at the same time, violations of the law of which the current State Administration and Local Self-Government Minister, Milan Markovic, is an idea creator. So, I ask Minister Markovic for an explanation why he does not respect the Law on Local Elections when it comes to giving an opinion at the request of the president of the Ćupri Municipality Assembly, and regarding the request of the Serbian Radical Party to regain the stolen mandates? What's this about? It is well known that in the course of the biggest theft in the history of Serbian parliamentaryism, it begins from the National Assembly to the local congregations. A Serbian Radical party has been stolen. Believe it or not, in the Assembly of the Municipality of Cupri, instead of respecting the Law on Local Elections and returning mandates to the SRS, because all the conditions provided by law are met, they, imagine, mean the authority in Ćupria, are asking the minister, i.e. the Ministry of State Administration and the local self-government opinion, i.e. a proposal on how to solve this problem. In fact, it's no problem, because the Law on Local Elections is absolutely clear and unequivocal. In addition to the municipality's assembly, there are judicial institutions, there is a court that is also foreseen by law to make solutions, in exactly these cases where local authorities have disobeyed the existing law. Then what do we need the courts if the minister puts himself in the role of judge? As if local officials were just as uninformed, the minister should interpret the law to them. The worst part is that the argument was given so complicatedly, illogically, I would say, even, even funny, just to make up for what follows the law, which is the return of the parliamentary mandates. As for the Assembly of the Municipality of Cupri and their expertise, the district court found in response to the SRS appeal that the last session, believe it or not, of the Assembly of the Municipality of Čupri was called past its own Rules of Procedure, and that the decisions that would possibly be taken at that session would be illegal. This is one, indeed, characteristic example of the minister breaking his own law, the law he personally defended against the MPs last year. An identical, or similar situation has happened, I think, in several municipalities in the Republic of Serbia and is putting one logical question to all of us. Then why the Local Elections Act? What is the point of Article 47 of this law when the same law violates, exactly, the Minister of State Administration and the local self-government? To what, too, Article 102. The Constitution, when does this constitution violate those who have advocated the most?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5098	People's MP, can we set an example for the Minister, so we don't violate the Rules of Procedure and respect the time set for exposure, and at the request of the Rules of Procedure to be spoken of? I ask the service to deliver a stenogram of the MP to the Ministry of Local Self-Government, with the requested information. The word has been given by Parliamentarian Milorad Krstin, who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5099	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, here, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, are working for you from the ruling coalition, to say this. On Monday, about nine o'clock, I came to the premises of the SRS Parliament Club - Dr Vojislav Seselj, these are rooms on the second floor, office number 60. When I went inside, I saw that someone had moved into those rooms during the weekend, and all they could do was find out that this room was no longer for use. Namely, the two-phone cables, at a given moment, we couldn't find, or, that is, only a naked camera left. The TV, owned by the National Assembly, was with torn cables, both those for connection to electricity and cable TV, along with an antenna that was torn apart, and the chair, tables and everything else was shipped out. It all happened Saturday after the meeting, so, during the weekend. Someone took the security key to office number 60 on the second floor and did what was done. I called the service and we tried and found all the cables, collected and thrown behind a small closet, but the trail was left in the form of Tomislav Nikolic's posters, for God's sake, the new president of some newly formed, called party. That seal was left to us, so we know that they can get into our rooms whenever they want and that they can work with our congregation material, as well as with the inventory, whatever they want. Here's a picture and an opportunity of the "yellow company", which allowed the newly formed parliamentary group and the newly formed party. You can check with the person who came to order that room. Madam Chairman, I would only ask you to answer me when I will be able as a People's MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5100	It's three minutes, tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5101	I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5102	People's MP, if you're already getting your word on article 100, then in time to three minutes, you have to tell me about the injury of which member you want to speak. Otherwise, this can be considered a major violation and abuse of business procedures. So I ask you, by the third minute, whenever you consider it necessary in your presentation, just say which member of the Rules of Procedure is concerned, because you did not do so in this presentation. I simply remind you not to abuse the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly next time. The word has been given by MP Momir Markovic, wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, and he received his word on the basis of Article 100(1), followed by Parliament of Parliament of the People, Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5103	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, not just now, not just today, but since the beginning of this assembly, the Rules of Procedure have been severely violated. Article 23(1) says - MP groups are educated in the National Assembly, as a rule, no later than seven days from the day of election of the National Assembly president. So, according to this Rules of Procedure, which should be "Holy Letter" for Parliament's work, all parliamentary groups formed seven days after the election of the National Assembly are not elected by the Rules of Procedure. Let's see if we can do it today, we can take a break, we can do it the way he wants, because the Rules of Procedure is being broken. Madam Chairman, you are not the first among the equals, you are the same, only Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic is the first among the equals. The president's powers don't belong to you, except when you're chairman, and you get a little carried away, well, even when you get out, I'm afraid you'll start punishing MPs in the hall one minute. He's a roughly broken member of 106. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says, 'Note is spoken to the MP who approached the speaker without the permission of the President', and we saw from the stenogram that Ms. Natasa Jovanovic did not come to the speakers, 'who spoke before he asked and received his word', that did not happen, 'who, despite the warnings of the National Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda, if he interrupts the speaker, throws, or interferes with the speaker', and the stenogram shows that this did not happen, 'if he presents the facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons'. Well, you know what, the private life of other people, if those other people haven't done the robbery they've done, the incredible robbery of the Serbian citizens' will as it has been done in the last month, thanks to the same boss. He's your boss now, Manter, yours and theirs. He once swore to me – my mother, and now he swears to me – Mantera. Also, a warning is made if the apostle uses swearing or offensive words. To tell you the truth, I'm afraid that when this political democracy is scratched a little bit, the most filthy primitive comes out. We had an opportunity to see it in two cases, from the mayor and in the case of one councilman. Article 201 is also harshly broken. The Rules of Procedure, Madam Chairman. I must read it: "After having answered the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to, for a maximum period of five minutes... ", then: "after receiving an answer to the additional question, the MP has the right to declare his response for a maximum of five minutes." The MPs who have asked the MP's question have the right to five, five more minutes, and not you who answer; you answer twice in five minutes to each MP. It's simple. It's amazing. To the extreme limits, you break the Rules of Procedure and act as if in that place where you are sitting tomorrow no one else will sit down to teach you democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5104	National MP, no member of the 23rd has been violated that regulates the formation of parliamentary groups. After the elections and after the constituent session of the National Assembly, in the first seven days, or shortly after the constitutional session, four and five parliamentary groups were formed, then four more. The MP is asking for the right to reply. The MP does not have the right to reply. I give you an explanation, because you have no good insight into the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, so from error you show that some of the provisions are broken, and they are not. So, Article 23. Several more parliamentary groups have been formed between the Rules of Procedure of the prescribed deadline for the formation of parliamentary groups, up to the last parliamentary group to be formed, the Parliamentary Group "Forward Serbia", on the basis of Article 23. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. All parliamentary groups have the same rights and all parliamentary groups are composed of members who have the status of MPs and MPs. As regards Article 201, Article 201 has not been injured, as it concerns parliamentary issues and the session on which parliamentary questions are being asked. Your insistence on giving a word based on a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and under Rule 100, at the same time as a parliamentary question, is now a matter of measure, to which I must warn you, how far this goes beyond the limits of tolerance and silent arrangements that the Rules of Procedure is being misused. Please don't do this. Therefore, Article 201, as well as the members of 200 and 199 refer to the parliamentary issue. It may, quite simply and well-explainedly, be seen as a violation of the reputation of the National Assembly, by demeaning the National Assembly, because we all know that there is a debate in particular and that this debate has nothing to do with parliamentary issues, which, at the request of any parliamentary group, the President of the Assembly is calling for. Then you have the right to speak for five minutes, you have the right to receive your word and say that you are not satisfied with the minister's reply when those sessions are held. Now there's a debate on the details of the law that's on the agenda. I really ask you all together to show respect for this common home, the National Assembly, with all possible tolerance for rights and opposition and ruling MPs to have the opportunity to express their strategy and their views behind the speaker of the National Assembly. The People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, and the Messenger of the people is Dobrislav Prelic. They're looking for a word on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5105	Mrs. Comic, after this monologue of yours, it's hard to decide where to start. Either way, it's a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. What is most important, you, as a People's MP, have the absolute right to present from this place where I am now the political views of your political party, or DS. You have no right to do so when you chair Parliament. Then you're in a completely different role. You've been telling us all these minutes about some phantom MP group. Of course, we know that the DS's position is to support Boris Tadic, and Boris Tadic has led to the fact that we in Parliament today have people representing a party that has not participated in parliamentary elections. That's the key question, Mrs. Comic. Don't explain, formally, how many days it takes to form parliamentary groups, etc. If you are already expressing the position of your political party, then state whether the DS's position is that members of a party who did not participate in the elections can sit in parliament. It's a fundamental and basic question. When you're a colleague, I don't know who you've been paying attention to anymore, that's all. People's MPs, to turn off their cell phones, Mrs. Comic, you have again used some rights you yourself have written down somewhere. I'm not saying, nor do I think that excessive use of cell phones, especially ringing, etc., does not interfere with someone who speaks, but I guess MPs who answer for the word are concentrated enough and that doesn't need to cause them any trouble. It doesn't say anywhere in our Rules of Procedure that the use of a mobile phone is forbidden. Please, let's hold back. It's no longer just the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure in your own way, but you're adding some of the provisions that are not there. I also ask you to refrain from making faces and laughing behind the backs of the messengers of the people, for you do so regularly. Three minutes, I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5106	On the note that the Rules of Procedure have been broken when it comes to the formation of parliamentary groups, I can only explain on formal grounds and on the basis of provisions in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly concerning the formation of parliamentary groups. That's what every MP who points out is in violation of the Rules of Procedure. On the basis of Article 23, parliamentary groups were formed after the elections and after the constitutive session of the Assembly, and then, in the weeks after that formation, more parliamentary groups were formed: the Parliamentary Group of Minorities, the PUPS Group, the G17 Group of MPs plus, etc. All parliamentary groups are on the National Assembly website. As the last parliamentary group, "Forward Serbia" was formed. What is the rule for each parliamentary group is equal, whether they formed within seven days after the constitution or later. For a request to turn off cell phones, I don't think it's necessary to stand in the Rules of Procedure. In order to call for decency, whoever forgot, I will ask them to turn it off, because it simply doesn't work at the meetings of the Assembly; they don't make phone calls and they don't keep mobile phones on. The People's Parliament says, "but you're sleeping." It's not in the Rules of Procedure either, but it happens. So, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I really ask you not to abuse the Rules of Procedure when it comes to this silent agreement that part of the session only takes place through the announcements of the Members of Parliament, and at the request of them to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has the word. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. After him, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5107	Mrs. Komic, I am reporting on the basis of article 104, and I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure: "The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. People's MPs are obliged to address one another with respect." Mrs. Comić, I don't think you, first of all, addressed me, in your explanation, with respect. Here's why. I asked you for a notice, knowing that you normally give reasons and that it usually lasts from two to four minutes, but you tried skillfully to avoid the answer I asked for. In fact, when I quoted Article 31, I said that the president of the National Assembly in the event of temporary prevention was replaced by one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly that she appointed, which is being notified by all the MPs. In a conversation with Ms. Jovanovic, I learned that Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic had not informed about it. You've skillfully avoided answering me. I hope you'll give me an explanation when I'm done. I know, Mrs. Comic, that you are in a great hurry to Europe and to adopt these laws, but you must be aware that the way you work for Serbia will never take you to Europe. Here's why. Because, first of all, democracy must be respected and laws must be respected. You don't respect democracy, you don't respect laws. To all Serbian citizens, it is absolutely clear that a new political party was founded last night, that the elections were on 11 May, that the SRS won 78 seats. I don't want to talk about morality, because in the Serbian people, in general, it's known that when someone puts an cheek under that thing, there's no reason to talk about morality. I hope you will respect the law and return the mandates to the SRS, that you will return seats to the SRS committees, the chairmanship of the SRS committees. All of what you are doing is against the law and it is good that the transfers of the Assembly are public, that our citizens see that, in fact, DS and Boris Tadic are supporting and protecting the thief in Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5108	National MP, you pointed out a violation of article 31 in your previous report. I heard what you said, but I didn't think I needed to explain to you, that you were asking me to answer the conversation that took place between you and Vice President Natasa Jovanovic and, possibly, her and the president of the National Assembly. How do I know who told who? Please ask that questions and what is defined as an injury be, indeed, defined as an injury. There is no way I can tell you whether article 31 has been broken or not, because I did not attend the conversation between you and Vice President Natasa Jovanovic, as I was not present in the conversation, if any, between her and the National Assembly president. That's why I thought we understood each other. Obviously not. Excuse me. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). After him, the word comes from MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5109	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, although the chairman has already said several times, to prove that she has not violated Article 106, again I am advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106, in the event that the chairman gave two warnings to Ms Natasa Jovanovic. "The warning is given to the MP who approached the speaker without the permission of the National Assembly president" – it did not happen, "which spoke before he asked for and received the word" – it did not happen, "which, in addition to the warning of the National Assembly president, speaks about a question that is not on the agenda" – it did not happen, "if the interruption of the speaker in the presentation or the throw away, or in another way, interferes with the freedom of speech" – it did not happen, "if it presents facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons" – it did not happen, however, then, but it could happen in another case, "if he uses swearing or offensive expressions" – well, half of the Democratic Party would have had to receive immediate notice as soon as he appeared in the Assembly's hall, not this one, but on committees in the city parliament, which is there, 150 meters away from us, "if other proceedings in the order to the order of the order of the order of the order of the order of the order of the people etc."And a reminder is uttered against the Messenger of the people, and another warning is uttered. I ask you, Madam Chairman, who can give you a warning? What you're doing with the MPs, especially with the MPs of the SRS, that's terror. That goes beyond the limits of every taste.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5110	The MP, Member of the 106th, was fully applied in accordance with the provisions and there was no violation of it in not two, but other warnings, and then the final sentence, or confiscation of words. To your question, I assume you know the answer – who can give me a warning or a harder measure? Anyone who presides as I stand behind the speaker of the National Assembly or in any way violates any provision of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is the measure of warning, which I believe the MP Momir Markovic knows very well and that the question is rhetorical. I ask you to refrain from rhetorical questions and that, while respecting our right to defend procedures and fulfilling our political strategies, we remain out of the realm of purely rhetorical sentences of the Rules of Procedure. The word is from MP Dragan Stevanovic, after him, MP of the people, Paja Momchilov. National MP Dragan Stevanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5111	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, this time I would like to exercise my right to the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article. 225 and 226, and to give some information, first of all, to the Assembly, certainly, to you, I think it will be of benefit to you, and then to the public, who has the opportunity to watch and observe us now. I think that this information and facts will remove any suspicion, if it comes to you, which is why the SRS insists so much on its mandates, the mandates that belong to it, and which is why it advertises even the Rules of Procedure in this context and which is why it will not give up. I mean, this isn't the first time the SRS has had this sort of thing going on. Through this fresh history of parliamentaryism in Serbia, it's been tried who knows how many times. The last time before this was with a mandate that Bogoljub Karic managed to steal from the SRS. Now, quoting certain statements, I will point out the principled position of the SRS on the issue, whatever party it was referring to, and in this case, it certainly is the SRS. "I don't think the party of Bogoljub Karic could enter parliament, because no one can enter parliament without a vote. Then we would be the first country in which a party has become a parliamentary year and a half after the elections." This is my message to all political parties, or they will now resist, or we will stop fighting politically. What would we fight for if after the election we didn't know how many MPs? We will do politics from day to day, we will conduct campaigns, we will go to elections, and Bogoljub Karic will wait and buy all MPs who are elected. So, where is the morale of the Constitutional Court of Serbia? No politician in Serbia is responsible for having the MP in office because the SRS won 82 seats then, so we must have so many seats at any moment. Did Bogoljub Karic win any parliamentary seats? It's not. Well, where did he get it? It's a simple matter. This is a fundamental question for Serbia. Bogoljub Karic can enter the Assembly only for lunch, and his party, I only hope, will never be parliamentary. Yes, but what if one of the 250 MPs dies tomorrow, whose mandate is that and who does it belong to? 'I'll finish. ''How can circumstances determine who belongs to the mandate, I guess we don't take into account the circumstances, but the election results? ''This was said in May 2005 by the then deputy president of the SRS, now citizen Nikolic. Mr. Nikolic has changed the party. Tomislav Nikolic has changed principles. We have no intention of giving up the principle and we will consistently seek what belongs to us, which is 20 parliamentary mandates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5112	The word is from MP Pai Momchilov, who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). After him, MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5113	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, again I point to a violation of Article 24 and please, Madam President, that we are now using only sound logic, not manipulation, in an attempt to respond to something that cannot satisfy the elemental logic. I will read you again carefully: "Employment groups propose members of each committee, a proportion of the number of MPs they have in the National Assembly." Here's your site, today's date, 22.10.2008, and you have an SNS parliamentary group. It is a non-existent, absolutely, parliamentary group, because the group "Forward Serbia" has been declared, if it is declared, but what is blackest, the parliamentary group falls under the SRS group. They're parts of the SRS, and it doesn't correspond to elemental logic, and you're trying to convince us it's okay. The number of 250 MPs is 100% in this House. The SRS, with its 60s, accounts for 24% of MPs, and, let's say, this new group of citizens, whatever you want to call them, and SNS, here, as a parliamentary club, no, it's a party, with its 20 members, 8% are represented in Parliament. The Education Committee has three representatives, it's 20% of the Committee, and the SRS has one representative, and that's 6%, and we should have 24%. You claim it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Well, what are you telling us, and what have you done in an unsuspecting manipulation, to say, here, on the agenda we have a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the decision on the election of board members. No act offered here will correct this illogicality and this disgrace that you support and encourage, because G17 plus, NS, PUPS, SPS, ZES and DSS fill and replace their members. Don't do that. We're not idiots. Don't make us idiots, give incoherent notices that don't stand. Answer me, please. And, as Mrs Verica tells you – listen, you are authoritarianly leading this parliament, not authoritatively, not with your authority. You're acting like you're in the movie "Flying Over the Coward's Nest" - that Fletcher girl. As the Prophet Radeta tells you, you can say the answer, so ask the MP if he is satisfied, well, if he is not satisfied, in the day of voting to vote on your interpretation. You don't do that at all. Don't do that, please. Answer, finally, to what I ask you and say this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5114	It's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, for two reasons. The first is that they're... (The People's MP, Paya Momchilov, says, "You're not normal." No violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, for two reasons. All parliamentary groups are formed according to the Rules of Procedure. You can see in the stenogram that I said that today are on the agenda changes and additions of members of the Committee of the National Assembly and that it is according to the Rules of Procedure a point that can always be placed on the agenda. There are no proposals for a proportionately fair division of members, because there is no proposal from the parliamentary group president Dragan Todorovic and there is no proposal from the president of the parliamentary group Tomislav Nikolic. No one can apply for an amendment and a addition of members of the assembly committee instead of the president of the parliamentary group. It is exclusively the right of the president of the parliamentary group. National MP Dragan Todorovic, president of the SRS parliamentary group, has been completely legitimate and for his reasons, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, has failed to apply for amendments and additions, which does not mean that it cannot do so at the next session. It was one of the good traditions in the National Assembly, that we had an agreement on members, but in order to change the percentage, there must be a proposal from the president of the parliamentary group. The president of your parliamentary group has not delivered this proposal and I ask you not to abuse the Rules of Procedure on this matter anymore, because you will not get the word for abuse and humiliation of the Assembly. I'll instruct you to discuss this with the president of the Parliament Group. Indeed, I ask that we remain within the framework of what is agreed - a silent and tolerated communication, in relation to your requests for a statement of violation of the Rules of Procedure. I repeat, by looking at the stenogram, you can see, precisely because it is not in this session, that according to the Rules of Procedure it is possible to be at the first session of the next session. The MP can't get a replica on an explanation, and you know it, so you can't ask for a replica, but you can look for a word based on article 100. Here you go. I have already said that the word has a People's MP Milan Avramovic. So that I do not violate the Rules of Procedure and that it is a failure, the word has been made by MP Dragan Todorovic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5115	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, because what Mrs Gordana Comic said is in some way not responding to the truth. I'm not saying that Mrs Comic did it on purpose, but she was probably not informed of the steps taken by the SRS when it came to its mandates, or members of the committee, in which the SRS, following the formation of the Assembly, was appointed by the presidents of these committees, on the basis of agreements reached by all parliamentary groups and on the basis of the percentages we have in Parliament. We still have to agree on delegations. I would remind the presidents of the parliamentary groups that at that time, in some ways, we have drawn attention to the fact that it would be desirable, as we agreed on on the committee, to give certain committees to the opposition. This practice has since 2004, and since 2004, the Administrative Board, the Defence and Security Committee of the Serbian Assembly and the then-SCG Assembly has belonged to the strongest opposition party. It was a correct deal, the only one the Assembly could go to if we wanted to normalize the work and if we wanted the Assembly to really do the job it was responsible for, to have the bill and to decide on those laws. It would all continue without any problems if you hadn't, probably because of the problems you have in your coalition, which we had the opportunity to hear, because, perhaps, some of the demands of some coalition partners, you had to come into a situation to have someone who would allow you to overcome that at some point without any major problems, as well as for other reasons that we've brought forward. You have allowed a group of citizens to usurp the rights of the SRS in this assembly. Among other things, Mrs. Comic, I said this morning what your President of the Executive Board said when it comes to the mandates of the coalition for European Serbia, ZES -- that this can only be compared to the impact of the comet. When it comes to the SRS, it's quite common. I'm sorry, I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5116	I thank you and I think we've given, more or less, the same notice. I am, of course, missing in detail and precision, but MP Paja Momchilov has twice insisted and therefore the explanation was broader and more detailed. The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. After him, MP Slobodan Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5117	Madam Chairman, Mrs. Komic, I appeal to Article 27. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Serbian Parliament, which says, under Section 3, that the President of the National Assembly, in this case you are the deputy president, the elderly on the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, chaired by the National Assembly and carried out the tasks provided for in the Constitution. I need to remind you of some things, and then you'll give me back my time. You are calling on Article 23 all afternoon, and by it you deceive Serbian citizens, because you claim that several parliamentary clubs have formed in the past period, which is not true. Here you represent terms, rhetoric, serve the story, i.e. the label of the SRS MPs who have been trying to convince you of one big difference since this morning. Article 23 says -- the parliamentary group consists of the MPs of one political party, another political organisation or group of citizens who have at least five MPs. I invite you to Article 102(2). The constitution, which is the highest legal act and beyond this Rules of Procedure, which it says - the MP is free to, under the conditions of a certain law, irrevocably put his mandate at the disposal of a political party whose proposal was elected as a MP. I ask you, on what basis do you identify the MPs of the new PUPS group and the newly formed parliamentary group, Forward Serbia? What did PUPS take from the SPS that didn't belong to him? What did the Group of Minorities take from the Group of Members of the ZES which already does not belong to it? Did they go into some coalition agreement? Are they in accordance with this law and Article 102(2)? The Constitution, right? They did. Did a citizen confess here that he broke this law and stole what didn't belong to him, take what wasn't his? What do you do with rhetoric, which puts you in the same plane of the MPs' clubs and this? Then you're criticizing us here because we're looking for what's ours. Don't engage in demagogy. We don't mind, let them advertise, take pictures, let them do whatever they want, let them campaign, even though there's no choice, it's not our problem. Let them get their mandates back, let them go to the polls, and let them come here and form whatever they want, if they cross the census, not our thing to take. The media darkness has been in effect for the SRS since this famous parliamentary group was formed, and they get all the privileges in all the shows, on all the channels, and then you're angry that we're looking for, according to the Rules of Procedure, answers some questions. Thank you for your time, and I apologize in nine seconds, but the answer, in accordance with Article 100(3), is expected of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5118	All MPs are the same in rights and duties. Parliamentary groups can only be formed on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The formation of parliamentary groups was within seven days and after. As long as members of the parliamentary groups have the status of MPs, they have all the rights and responsibilities that arise from that status. It's a business obligation. National MP Milan Avramovic says he is not satisfied. You want to vote? (Yes) That's what we're going to vote on. On the violation of Article 23, the National Assembly will declare itself in voting day. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word, based on Article 100(1) before other MPs, i.e. MP Slobodan Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5119	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Article 42 has been injured: ''In the course of the term of office of a member of the committee, on the proposal of the parliamentary group, the National Assembly may dismiss a member of the committee from the order of the members of the parliamentary group... '"To be perfectly clear, we did it on September 9th. We asked for a member of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to be dismissed on constitutional issues, Tomislav Nikolic, on the Administrative Committee, too, Tomislav Nikolic. We also asked for Bozidar Delic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to be resolved on 9 September. This best tells what kind of people are involved in this new parliamentary group, or the new party. Among other things, the signatures of Veroljub Arsic and Budimirovic Jelena are here. They signed on 9 September to replace Bozidar Delic from the assembly's vice-presidentship. Then, along with some moving and motionless things, they went to this new Parliament club. Ask yourself a question – what kind of people are these? Is it possible in this way to spit on their own dignity, to humiliate themselves, first of all, in front of the citizens of Serbia and, I guess, have a family. How can I explain that? What was so decisive about them that during a few days they changed their decisions so drastically? One of them mentioned some of the problems he had with some money and fears. I'm not telling you by heart. What is the motive for this when he, even, accused himself, there are many MPs he has been doing before him, Tomislav Nikolic? What's that reason that he's making such a death salad in such a short time, that it's simply unimaginable? What's the biggest problem, you from the yellow company, you make it happen. That you respect the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the law in principle, that could never happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5120	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Vukovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. After him, the word has been given to the People's Messenger of Pai Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5121	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens, I've come to the phone, and I'm going to use my right to say something about an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Serbian Parliament. I would also like to inform you, Madam Chairman, that the SRS has concluded that you have been going over our initiatives for days to solve certain things that have obviously been a violation of the Rules of Procedure for weeks. You're going over it easily and you think that's how it's going to go. We show you that the sessions of the Serbian Parliament must be much more serious. You must respect this number of MPs, both from the opposition and from the position, which, for weeks, according to the Rules of Procedure, are seeking their rights as MPs. I remind you that two days ago we informed the public that, following a session of the City Assembly, held on Friday, October 2008, in which Belgrade Mayor Dragan Djilas, in the harshest and most vulgar manner, insulted Vice-President of the City Committee Zoran Ognjanovic and his family, there was an escalation of violent behaviour by DS committee members Janko Radakovic. Then we informed this house and we expected you to do something about it. A good part of that same session of the City Assembly, where the Statute of the City of Belgrade was adopted, was passed by a committee member Janko Radakovic, who was able to find all those who understand it, with a funny comment – wake up Janko Radakovic, a DS committee member in the Belgrade City Assembly. Instead of accepting his mistake and apologizing to all Belgraders for sleeping in such an important session of the City Assembly, Councilman Janko Radakovic sent a threatening message to Milan Zgonjanin – tell your friend, the Radical Zgonjanin, from Schiller, not to play with me, because he will be trunked and then – the direction of Avala, since he found me to call out, and he doesn't know who I am and how crazy I am. We trust him because it comes from this company, that man knows what he's saying. I finished my quote. Unfortunately, it wasn't the end of the violent behaviour of DS and its councilman. He again referred to the threat that Milan Zgonjanin, unless he ceases to reveal her real face to the public, would pass as the president of the City Committee, Nemanja Sarovic, and come to the next session in bruises. I want to remind you, those who don't know...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5122	Three minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5123	... I'm sorry, I'll be in touch with the Rules of Procedure later.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5124	The word of the messenger of the people is Pai Mamchilov, and the letter of the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5125	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, two things to discuss. You can't tell me your authoritative stand to forbid me from reporting to the Rules of Procedure and threatening me with sanctions. Secondly, to return to work, as Mr. Vojislav Seselj taught us, who is a top-notch lawyer, and has always asked us to speak to the facts here. I point to the 27th member of the Rules of Procedure, where he writes nicely and clearly, Mrs Comic, the president takes care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If a member of the 23rd is at risk of unbalanced distribution among the parliamentary groups, let's leave everything else behind, let's leave the morals. Serbian citizens know that under the recyclable DOS, there is no morals in politics. They know Serbia's citizens well, they understand that there are other morals for them and they know that what morals are closest to what is contained in the Ten Commandments of God. But you are obliged to take care of the conduct of the Rules of Procedure, not to be violated, and not Mr Todorovic, because you are the first among the equals, you have greater material advantages because you need to take more care of all this. You have been given an explanation that the SRS, Mr. Todorovic, tried to introduce the matter into normal legal and business flows, asking that the citizen Tomislav Nikolic, in the Administrative Committee, be taken away from the leadership, because, according to this Rules of Procedure and by some agreement, does not belong to him. You go deaf about it and act crazy and now you teach us how we don't do our job right. Please, let me finish with article 100, you keep calling on him. Final position: "If, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without a search, decide on the issue in the day of the vote." Don't threaten to give us any more words. You're not the judge, you're the first among the equals. Only when you see that there is no agreement between your explanation and my claims is that you put it to a vote. Stop pretending to be the gendarmes of the unprincipled Dossian coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5126	Do you want to take a vote on your injury in voting day? People's MP, I'm asking you, do you want to talk about the injury you spoke of in the voting day? (Paja Momchilov, from the post: If you say it is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, read the 4th article as it says. ) I fully understand the interpretation of Article 23 by MP Paja Momchilov, but there is no breach of that member, and we would have no problem if the president of your parliamentary group had applied for amendments and additions of members of the Assembly committees. We have already heard several times what problems the president of your parliamentary group has been facing in an attempt to make an agreement and therefore there is no formal request from the SRS Group of Members to make a proportionate and appropriate replacement of MPs at today's session. I ask that this assembly be declared in the day of the vote. The word is a folk letter from the Prophet of Rade, because he wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, and then the Messenger of the people, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5128	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this morning, around 10, or 10,30 hours, I started a debate on Article 201. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and, on several occasions, some other fellow MPs spoke about this member of the Rules of Procedure, and each time Mrs Comic, in her own strange way, tried to explain the application of this article. Indeed, I have a need, first of all, as a lawyer and as someone who knows this Rules of Procedure well, and I believe that she is aware of it intimately and Mrs. Komic, to explain, first of all, to the public, because I do not want anyone to remain convinced that the MPs of the SRS are in any way violating the Rules of Procedure. Let me explain a little bit, I'm not quoting all the members. Otherwise, MPs' questions are regulated. 198-202. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mrs. Comic, I'd like you to listen very carefully to this, as well as everything else, I think you're doing it. Article 200: ''To an oral question, the Government, or minister, must reply orally immediately. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP and deliver the reply in writing within eight days of the date on which the question is asked. The written reply of the Government, or the Minister of State, shall be delivered to the MPs. Exceptionally, if certain facts requiring a longer or more complex analysis are to be identified in the preparation of an answer to the parliamentary question, the time limit for answering the parliamentary question may be extended but not more than 30 days. ''Furthermore, Article 201: ''After answering the parliamentary question given, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment, for a maximum period of five minutes, on the answer to his question or to ask an additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response for at least five minutes. ''Mrs. Comic, if we were to interpret this Article 201 as you interpret it, then the MP would never be able to say publicly that he was not satisfied with the answer he received from the minister and then it would only give the possibility that the ministers would, in such a order, write something to the MP and, like, be satisfied with the form. So, nowhere, in no article, here, I have quoted, in no position does it say that the MP responds at some point to an answer to the parliamentary question received by the minister, or the competent authority, but does so, it does well, after a certain answer to the parliamentary question. At which point the answer was given, it depends on how effective the government or the competent authorities were, whether they did it after a few days or, the longest, after 30 days. So, Mrs. Comic, here, think about it, soon there will be a break, so you have a chance to talk about art. 202 and 201 consult a good lawyer. I suppose the deputy secretary can explain this to you, that you are trying to stop us from commenting on the answers we receive from the ministers, or from the authorities, on the basis of Article 201.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5129	It's three minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5130	Thank you very much. The quote lasted one minute and 20 seconds, I followed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5131	You were warned on time in four minutes and 30 seconds. Four minutes and 30 seconds, minus one minute and 20 seconds. I'm glad that both the People's Parliament and I, as a People's Parliament, respect the time at our disposal. So, Rule 201 is a member of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Affairs and concerns the procedure at the session, and exclusively at the session, at which, at the request of the parliamentary group, any parliamentary group, I repeat, I think it is a good provision in the Rules of Procedure, Government, Prime Minister, individual ministers or all ministers come and answer parliamentary questions. The procedure at that session is that the MP must have the right to address the minister, dissatisfied with his answer. What we have an informal agreement on in the application of the Rules of Procedure, therefore, that session in this session we have not yet had, was in the previous session, not strictly applied, not in detail and very creatively, as already mentioned, is that it can be obtained, when it comes to any other kind of gain and give word, means, debate in principle, discussion of details, just on the basis of Article 100, to talk about injury to the Rules of Procedure. When the MP receives a word, because it is the only option in any other session, other than the session that any member of Parliament is scheduled by the National Assembly, then he must say which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured, what nature of the infringement is, and then the chairman has obligations, he has a duty to respond to the MP. As part of our agreement, and in order to really build together this National Assembly, the word is obtained, and the art is used for exposure. 226 and 225. By looking at the stenogram, you can see that I have warned MPs who have passed away, or by chance say a parliamentary question, and they have no rights, because they are according to the article. 226 and 225, which are part of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly – rights and responsibilities, are merely looking for information that is not related to the course of the National Assembly, absolutely nothing to do with the procedure of the National Assembly, is within the rights and duties and in completely other channels, but, because of the hope of a good spirit of debate, which was in this assembly, we have decided that even in violation of the said, conditionally, art. 225th and 226th gets a word in the Rules of Procedure. Getting words about the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, use or abuse, in accordance with Article 15 of the Rules of Procedure. The 225th and 226th are completely different from those of the 201s and the work of the Rules of Procedure which regulates the parliamentary issue. I now set a break, and the work of the Assembly continues at 15 hours, because by 14 hours none of the MPs would have room for a full speech, or there would be a remark that there would be no pause so much needed for the MPs. So there's already been reported. The People's MP Nenad Canak, too, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and he'll get a word in at 3:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5132	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Just to ask if anyone's answering about the amendment? Mr. Petar Jojic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5133	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS, and in accordance with the provisions of the Article. 225th and 226, I'd like a message. Namely, in the daily list "Kurir" since 21 October 2008, it has been announced to the public that "Electro Network of Serbia", due to the delay of the Croatian company Končar in delivering transformers, has been damaged by more than 10m euros. I'd like to ask you if this is true, to check it out. According to "Kurir", the Croatian company Končar – energy transformers, in which the co-owner of Germany's "Simens", damaged the domestic public company "Electro Network of Serbia" by more than 10m euros. The contract on the purchase of Croatian transformers, on behalf of the "Electro Network of Serbia", was signed by one Dragan Vignjevic and succeeded by Mr Milos Milankovic. I'm just asking for a notice, that we know when the contract on the delivery of the transformer was concluded, at which cost, when contractual obligations were to be carried out, and how much damage was caused by such a contract, i.e. Such a reckless situation and a contractual relationship with a partner from Croatia? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia is occupied, Serbia is being taken away from territory; the Cypriots from the south, the Croats from the west. The Duchess is occupied. Only one company, according to some data, bought about 300,000 hectares of the country's best country in the northern Serbian province. That is why I am asking for a notice as to how accurate this information is, and is it true that Mr. Todorovic purchased enormous property and robbed Serbian citizens, at which price he bought some immovable property, did he honor contracts and will the Government of the Republic of Serbia prevent such an abduction?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5134	National MP Momir Markovic and then MP Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5135	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Euromerklia, since you swear so much in respect of democracy, democratic principles, I repeat, because I am not from the previous chairman enough to understand, I ask, how is it possible that MPs and committees are formed by the Rules of Procedure? Article 23: "Employment groups are educated in the National Assembly, as a rule, no later than seven days after the election of the President of the National Assembly." Seventy times a week has passed since we elected Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic as National Assembly President, and now some parliamentary groups are formed, with a request to join the assembly bodies, the assembly committees. Gentlemen of the Euromeracles, I know it answers you: the worse, the better. But you'll either have to stop making a declaration about democracy and start that democracy, that you've been importing from the West for so many years, to carry out, or to give it up. As regards the mandate of these citizens, Article 102. The constitution is unequivocal: "The mandate of the MP begins to flow... "and so on. Item 2: "The MP is free to, under certain conditions, unrevocably put his mandate at the disposal of the political party on whose proposal he was elected as a MP." All the MPs of the SRS took advantage of this freedom and signed the blank resignations, signed the contracts and entrusted their mandates to the SRS. When, using the trust that the party had in it, one of the citizens who represented the MP took resignations and confessed, before that, and in several newspapers, "I pushed the blank resignations", that means that resignations existed, that the resignations, through unfortunate circumstances, were with him. He admitted that he had forced his resignations and that it had damaged the party. The state, given that resignations existed, can react and restore mandates to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5136	The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5137	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll continue where I left off. As you were informed, today was the session of the Industry Committee, where the price of gas was discussed. It seems that, as I said, the biggest culprit is the mediators, "Yugorosgas," and you can't agree who was with them, in fact, working with the previous government, or who was involved in this gas transaction through the middleman. What's most important is that a small number of you here are businessmen and you don't know what gas means during the process of production, especially in mineral fertiliser factories, which are already starting their production, as well as in factories that are involved in the production of colored metals, where exclusion can result in catastrophic consequences. I have to tell you, it happened in 1997, when the Hungarians rolled the gas, there was a valve, and the whole production of the Serbian economy was in stasis at one point. So it was no longer a problem of debt that the Serbian economy and the Serbian ministry, at some point, had towards the gas producer, but was the problem of that system of distributors; gas was passing through his country, it could have shut down the gas. You know exactly what the problem was in the gas transmission system with Ukraine. Now I wonder if it seems to me that G17, or any other political options, would probably like to draw gas from Germany. Draw it, if you can, if there is one in Germany, or if there is one in any country of the European Union, but it is not. So you have to draw him where he is and where his production is. There have been some wonderful questions today, dedicated to very domestic production, about what is happening to the gas that is in circulation in domestic production. There is no mention of the price, not at all, of that gas, whether it is valid and whether it can satisfy, or whether it is in the option that the gas price is absorbed by other producers. The next question that is very important is the question mentioned by certain MPs, which is the mafia's problem. In fact, it also tickled the Prime Minister and the president of the state, who at some point called to state that this issue is very important for the nation. I'm asking you, well, when you dated this proposal to increase...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5138	Speak 30 seconds more, please. The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Vukovic, and then a National MP, Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5139	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, in my previous address, I have tried to point to a problem that has easily been moved and, apparently, we're playing deaf phones here. Why did I single this thing out specifically and decide to go out and say something about it again? Nemanja Sarovic was in the middle of a campaign, the president of the SRS City Committee, brutally beaten, in a devious manner, while sitting in the car. The official statement was that it was N.N. face, it's never been discovered who it is, but it can be suspected that it's coming from your camp. It was a year ago, too. The spray was sprayed in my eyes, in my car, too, when we were doing party activities. I would like to remind you that DS member Bojan Stanojevic also used the same words of insult and cursing both mother and mother, and origin, also, in the City Assembly a year ago. It's covered up. Now, after this event, the unloved scene in the City Assembly, it's obvious that you know who did it, who's threatening and who's suggesting that they'll still... Warn this lady. You obviously want to defend the position of Gilas and this gentleman, Janko Radakovic. Unfortunately, it wasn't the end of DS and her councilman's behavior. He again referred to the threat that Milan Zgonjanin, unless he ceases to reveal his real face to the public, would pass as the president of the City Committee, Nemanja Sarovic, and come to the next session in bruises. The SRS finds that this act took responsibility for the event, as well as for all other attacks on SRS activists during previous campaigns. The SRS strongly condemns the violent behaviour of DS and its officials. We call on the state authorities, in the first place, the police and the prosecution, to respond before any more threats to political insinuation, directed from the ranks of DS officials, are achieved. This was said here two days ago. The public has been warned, and nothing to anyone. Also, for weeks the MPs of the SRS have been drawing attention to you, the ruling majority, the many amendments and the exits to the Rules of Procedure, to pay more attention to citizens' problems than you are defending the Rules of Procedure here.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5140	The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Here you go. We'll continue the work after 18 hours, about the item on the agenda at 18 o'clock.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5141	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 27. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, Section 1: "The President of the National Assembly shall carry out the tasks set out in the Constitution." By referring to that provision, I quote Article 102. Paragraph 3: "The MP cannot be an MP in the assembly of the Autonomous province, nor a official in the authorities of the executive authority and of the judiciary, nor can he perform other functions, tasks and duties for which the law found to be a conflict of interest." So, Madam President, we in the National Assembly have four MPs, two of whom are mayors, one is the president of the municipality, and one is the deputy mayor. All four MPs are from the parliamentary majority. As far as I know, your parliamentary majority numbers 129, and in order for the Assembly to work in accordance with the Constitution, as provided for by the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, there must be 126 people who will vote for a particular proposal and agenda and for certain laws. I note that the Committee on Conflict of Interest has come to terms with these four people, our colleagues. We have important laws, budget rebalances, new agendas. How do you think you vote that if the Assembly works in an illegal and illegal system? What are you going to do about this four colleagues returning their mandate and choosing new people? It is interesting that three of these people belong to one parliamentary group, which speaks – expertise in front of politics. What's the problem? Is it perhaps a problem that there is a hidden parliamentary immunity, or is it a problem of another kind? So let's see how we're going to vote on the future agenda, on the laws, and how we've voted on some things so far based on the parliamentary majority that used to be 126. Even today, when determining the quorum, some of the other colleagues were in the congregation. The Rules of Procedure have been broken and I ask you to answer this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5142	Thank you. National MP Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5143	I'm reporting for an officer. 225 and 226. I look more and more like Kalimer myself, because, like most opposition MPs, I am forced to ask for information necessary for our work and answers to our citizens' questions under pressure and with a finding, well, that's injustice. This time it's about questions related to Mrs. Sports and Youth Minister's work, former ballerina, former counsellor at the Ministry of Defence. Unlike Mr. Cvetkovic, who, objectively, does not interfere with his subjective powers, but leaves them to lumens such as God and Junior, Mrs. Snow White is involved in her business, but by spoiling everything she touches. She came to him like an antipod of King Midas, who turned everything he touched into gold. Whatever this lady touches, even if it's gold, turns it into dust and ash, often into poison gas, given which party she comes from. This time, with a little help from a friend of Junior's and a band of G17 and a little God, Minister of Science, who is V.D. University director, managed to turn possible gold from the University of Serbia into dust and ash, degrade and reject. If we know that the Eurovision has been highly organised and Serbia has brought important cultural, political, financial points, it has been expected for the University to be a chance for us, both in terms of tourism development and in terms of strengthening what was recently the only Serb trust, which is sport. The minister's commitment is a team that is, formally, a minister of sports and youth. Given the increase in juvenile delinquency, prostitution, pedophilia, abuse of all possible psychoactive substances and, in general, poor atmosphere among young people, who are the biggest victims of post-traumatic syndrome, because they were most exposed to harmful effects, it is necessary to strengthen and develop health, lifestyles, above all, to stimulate young people for sport. I can't believe Mrs. Snow White isn't reading the paper. In the last few days, in various accounts, more young people have been killed than they have suffered in six months in a more responsible state. Two 18-year-olds shot a 17-year-old at the gym exit. The son slaughtered his mother and father because a junkie, an alcoholic father abused two underage children and a woman, a student tried to act six by entering and threatening the professor with a gun. We're so used to these headlines, we almost don't react anymore. In this atmosphere, sports organisations are often led by corrupt and completely uninterested young people, a product of long-term negative selection. That can't possibly be an accident. This government has ruined or, at least, tried to destroy all the base foundations of this nation, like the Army and the Church, and now it has collapsed into sport. "Star" or "Partizan" are not just sports societies, but a pillar of a cultural institution that forms consciousness, but unconsciously, many young people. So, as if all that wasn't enough, for 250 days since the University, we've come to a situation where a commission from the Federation of the University found that we can't make the planned preparations. Now they've left a man in Brussels to follow how it's all going to develop, I guess, he didn't believe in the word of God "cannabis," who gave him the honorary aunt's word that everything would be fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5144	Mrs. Jankovic, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5145	The point is that the number of sports has been reduced. They dropped handball, rowing, cocoa, table tennis, wrestling, canoe, and the number of athletes, for 5,000. The explanation is that we do all this to save, and the reality is that we lost about 300,000 euros. To 5,000 athletes who would come, if you add three or four more or escorts or coaches, that would be about 20,000 people. If they leave only 10 to 15 euros in Serbia, we reach a 300,000-euro figure. Not to mention hotels, food, dating. The chance to affirm sports, tourism and indestructible Serbian spirit has failed. If Mr. Goran Petkovic, State Secretary for Tourism and Kod, of course, G17'minus', he's not just a great professor, but neither...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5146	Mrs. Jankovic, you've been talking for four and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5147	... It would be good if he looked less at these jets with the Sutanovac and took more care of tourism. What I'm interested in is that if the minister didn't have to resign on her own for what she did, then at least give us information about what she did. I didn't speak this minister's last name on purpose. I speak – Mrs. Snow White, because I have made a flash poll among MPs. Not only the opposition MPs, but the MPs of position, DS, SPS, they have no idea what the woman's name is, last name. There are some who know, but they're from G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5148	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 5th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from Mr. Jojic. Mr. Jojic, just wait a minute, Mr. Andric is reporting to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5149	Dear President, I ask you first to warn the MPs on this left, that they do not receive us when we go out to take our word. I don't know what's wrong with them, nor do we have anything private. If they have anything to say, they can come out for a pay phone. I urge you to use Article 98(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, since there is no representative of the Proposer. I don't think it's possible to continue working on the amendments, because maybe some MPs, we all have amendments to these laws, to convince government representatives to accept some of these points. That's what happened at the last two points. Government representatives went out, based on what we were saying, and said they would accept suggestions, that they would accept amendments. So much for now. It has always been a practice for a resolute minister or another minister from the government to sit and listen to MPs and give concrete answers to both questions and suggestions coming from MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5150	The minister will be joining us soon, and he's been monitoring everything that's going on in the O.R. all the time, on television. Mr. Jojic has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5151	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the chairman of the afternoon session has taken the floor, i.e. Mrs. Comic took the floor away from the vice-president of the National Assembly, Ms. Natasa Jovanovic. When you read a stenogram from the morning part of this session, you will find that there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, or violations by Ms. Natasa Jovanovic. I ask Mrs Dejanovic, the President of Parliament, to reconsider this decision and to resolve this issue, because there is not a single word, not a single letter, not a single word, or a comma, that Natasha Jovanovic has done anything wrong, or that she has asked any question or gave an answer or comment that would not be similar to Parliament. It's not in the stenogram. That is why I propose, Madam President, that you reconsider this decision, you are the President of Parliament, the highest legislative body in the country, because a word has been taken away without any legal basis. Ladies and gentlemen, Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, the MP of the SRS, has tabled an amendment to Article 5 of the law, which is in the proposal, by proposing in his amendment to Parliament that, instead of the word "minister", the "MUP" should stand. It's our basic and essential objection. The ministry represents a minister, but not in this case, when it comes to protecting certain interests of the government and the state. It's the minister who signs the papers, he's authorized. However, the law should stand, to figure the Ministry as an institution. The minister is not an institution, the minister is in front of the institution, but he is not an institution. In our opinion, the definition of this proposal, this provision, is that the Ministry should be behind this. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask a question - is Serbia a safe or unsecured country? Since 1945, Broz came to power, and in 1943, when he made Serbia's underpants in Jajc and when he divided the territory of the former Kingdom of Yugoslavia, he knew that he had prepared the territory of Serbia for Croats and Shiptars. Serbia did not have adequate leadership to oppose Joseph Broz, so that Josip Broz would not take the territory of the Republic of Serbia. He did it on purpose, with the imagination, to weaken Serbia's interests, to weaken Serbia's territory and to make Serbia a dependent state in the Balkans. Ladies and gentlemen, Broz opened the borders for Albania in 1945. The Albanians crossed the border of the then SFRY. No one stopped them, no one prevented them, they crossed with the herds to KIM, while arming and occupying the territory of the Serb people and the church plot of Metohija as the most fertile land on southern Serbia's territory. This could not have been done by Joseph Broz if he had not had bad political leadership, at the time, in Serbia. There was no one to stop that dictator and the sicko. When patriots from certain services and internal affairs and state security authorities tried to take measures, disarm a Shipar gang on KIM territory, Broz then decided to deal with Serbian leadership and Serbia and thus give advances to the territory of the Republic of Serbia to the Cypriots, that is, Albanians. It is known that in 1966, at the 4th tide of Briony, Josip Broz managed to arrest some, move from various functions and eliminate the most important Serbian political, military and security leadership. Serbia then ran out of proper personnel in the military, left police without personnel. Some DB personnel and public security were then retired at the age of 33 because Broz chased them away, and there was, as the MP and head of the Todorovic parliamentary group said, something similar after 2000. That doesn't give good and desired results. But let's get back to the border. That border is still today, so to speak, the non-existent border is not marked, as Mr Krasic said, who has always the right thoughts when to say what is worth saying, and that's important. We have passed a law that the military no longer secures borders, but that border security should be left to the authorities of the internal affairs. However, the question arises – are internal affairs authorities able, with this number of police, gendarmes, including BIA, to adequately and successfully oppose numerous internal and external enemies? It's very problematic and I doubt it. In addition to the best will and willingness of these authorities to protect the state, they are unable to secure borders. The external factor is present in our country. They come and go whenever they want. Only at those border crossings where stationary control has been established can we say border control is being carried out. However, there is hot evidence of whether our border is secure. In addition, the methods and courage of criminals, robbers and drug traffickers and traffickers are also involved, which is confirmed by numerous evidence, as members of the internal affairs authorities, or police, find and discover a number of crimes at border crossings. If our border were safe and the internal affairs authorities were able to cover every step, there wouldn't be that many criminals, or so much drug trafficking would be across our borders. This is proof to you that international criminals and smugglers know that we have weak control of the state border and therefore they are running across the territory of the Republic of Serbia. You know how Solana is coming, as Olli Rehn comes, etc., they don't need visas or border crossings; they've already run over Serbia both along and across. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary for this state to secure the border and strengthen the forces of the police, the gendarmes and the other organs, so that we can successfully and adequately protect our country and our people. It is seen that the evidence is innumerable, as the former SFRY was broken, as the SRJ is now breaking up, parting, and a piece of the Republic of Serbia. What does the Duchy Constitution look like, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament? You DS gentlemen must understand that this is a very serious matter. It threatens to reach secession and northern Serbian autonomous province. You see, I have mentioned several times today that Croatians are storming Vojvodina, hijacking agricultural land, buying large values in real estate, selling to many tycoons from Croatia, with the help of tycoons from Serbia, large spaces and the most valuable agricultural land. Madam President, if you'll allow me, I brought something out here today and let the public know, if you'll just give me half a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5152	You can talk for four more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5153	Ladies and gentlemen, citizens of the Republic of Serbia are following local elections in four municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. On November 9th, there will be elections in the municipality of Rum. I call on the citizens of the municipality of Rum to count on the representatives of the SRS. The SRS has submitted a full list and I suggest that the citizens go to the polls, vote for the SRS. The SRS is an irreplaceable party, a party that protects Serbia's interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5154	According to the Rules of Procedure, the MPs first Aleksandar Martinovic and then Donka Banovic. You've got another minute and a half.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5155	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a injured member is 194. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says - the right and duty to represent the Government in the National Assembly, has the Prime Minister when considering all issues of its jurisdiction. The government determines the members of the government representing it on a specific issue on the agenda of the National Assembly session, or session of its committee. Representatives of the Government shall participate in the work of the National Assembly in accordance with the powers laid down in the law. Today we are discussing amendments to the Bill on the State Border. Currently, an authorised representative of the government, the interior minister, does not sit in the hall. It is a very serious law and very serious amendments. Yesterday, Mr. Ivica Dacic sat in the National Assembly, actively participated in the work, settled with the MPs, and yesterday working in the National Assembly was quite constructive. Today, apparently, the minister has changed his attitude towards the MPs, not in the National Assembly. As my esteemed counterpart Petar Jojic said, Serbia's state border is at risk, not only when it comes to KIM, but unfortunately also in northern Serbia. A few days ago, the Vojvodina Assembly brought an anti-constitutional, i.e. set out an anti-constitutional proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. These days, in certain newspapers you could see not only that Vojvodina is separate from Serbia, but also the cards of division within the Vojvodina itself are drawn. According to these maps, Srem should be an interesting area of Croatia, and part of southern Backa, the rest of Backa and most of Banata – an interesting area of Hungary. It may seem quite far to some at the moment, but I warn you that Vojislav Seselj in 1991 indicated that enemies of the Serb people will not stop at the separation of Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, that they will try to realise both in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija and Vojvodina. It would be really constructive and important for the National Assembly to be present today by Mr Ivica Dacic, so that he could actively participate in the work, i.e. to provide answers to questions which, first of all, will be asked by the MPs of the SRS, who in most cases have submitted amendments to the draft law on the state border. Accordingly, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, I invite you to point out to Mr. Ivica Dacic that his presence at the National Assembly session is not only his right, but also his obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5156	Thank you. National MP, Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5157	Dear fellow Members of the People, I wish to join the application, I did not quite realize that it must be a request, but, let's say, a request sent by MPs from the opposition, and the application was sent to you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, to ensure that the Assembly works properly. We're working on amendments to a very important law, a law on the protection of the state border. Some amendments to this law have been accepted by the government, however, there are many amendments and MPs want to convince Police Minister Ivica Dacic to accept their amendments as well. If he's not in the O.R., then this whole process is pretty difficult. We heard an explanation from you that Mr. Ivica Dacic is monitoring the transfer of the Assembly, so he's sitting somewhere watching the transmission on channel two of RTS. If he's already doing it, then he can't do the other job in quality, which is why he's away. Few who can do two things quality at the same time. There are some home appliances that can do that, they're called multipractice, but when it comes to people, it's going really hard. So if Mr. Ivica Dacic is already sitting somewhere watching this broadcast via television, it would be good to come to the Assembly and hear the explanation of the MPs why some very high-quality amendments should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5158	The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by Mr Ivan Andric, a national MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5159	Madam President, I think you've really violated Article 104 by saying that the minister is monitoring the transfer of the Assembly via television, but let it go to your soul. Let's take advantage of this little time until Mr. Dacic comes to hear the amendments, so, yes, by art. In 225 and 226, let us inform the MPs and the public what happened today in the Committee on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Industry. I can say that our fight, when I say that, I mean both LDP and all MPs of the opposition, in the last two days, has yielded results and that the government has finally begun to consider this radical decision to collect the price of the gas of 60%. What is now clear, is that what you call obstruction, in fact, was our legitimate way of fighting through institutions for what we think is necessary. So today it became clear to everyone, including the Minister of Energy, that the issue is essential for the price of gas in Serbia – the issue of the company "Yugorosgas". I'll just tell you that the commission the company planned to take next year, of 40m euros, is equal to an increase in the price of gas that all households in the Republic of Serbia would suffer. So, today it's one of the conclusions of this committee. We have continued to insist that the company's commission, the right to intermediate them, have pointed to many irregularities in the formation of the company, in abandoning the majority part of Gazprom by the company and I can say that, when we saw today on the news that Mr Dinkic finally accepted the initiative and, of course, suggested that he would fight as his own, that he would fight from today to end intermediation in the purchase of gas, it certainly means, when he heard it, that everyone heard it. Therefore, I can only tell you that what we have learned for these past two days is that it is worth fighting through this Assembly, regardless of how much you have offended us with this attitude, I don't know what to call it, because to answer the MP that the minister is not there, but to watch the broadcast on television, instead of sitting with us and answering the questions and amendments that MPs are proposing, I really don't think it's right. Once again, I ask you to use your right under Article 98(2) and take a break of ten to fifteen minutes, as long as it takes for the minister to stop watching TV and come to the hall with the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5160	On the occasion of the amendment, Mr. Momir Markovic came forward, but I appreciate, indeed, your proposal and I think it's okay to take a break from 10 to 15 minutes. Do you want to talk, so we can take a break after your exposure? There's no need for a break. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5161	Well done to our police, the minister has managed to bring her in. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has been insisting for years, since you Eurometers took the state into your own hands, not to put the "Minister", but "Ministership". The ministry is an institution, the minister is an individual in the ministry, is headed, but is an individual. If you continue like this, it will turn out that when the minister sleeps, the entire ministry sleeps, the fishing minister, the entire fishing ministry. The minister may be on behalf of the ministry, but the ministry must be competent. The minister watches the Assembly via television, the entire ministry watches the Assembly via television. For this reason, we insist that the ministry is an institution, and the minister is a civil servant, and nothing else, and cannot be given such powers, not only when it comes to the Ministry of the Interior, but all ministries. I don't know when you'll come to your senses once and for all to listen to the SRS' smart advice and finally apply it. As long as the minister's here, let me ask him. A bill on the protection of the state border, everything is fine, Minister, but in one part of the territory of the state we have no limit, or we cannot protect it. If you had used Resolution 1244, the powers of Resolution 1244, and for those 1,000 to 1,000 officers to be in KIM, we could say that we are also controlling the state border, not the one between Kosovo and Serbia, that is neither the border, but the one below, where Kosovo and Metohija are bordering Albania and Macedonia. I therefore propose that MPs adopt Miss Natasa Jovanovic's amendment in the day to vote, and instead of "Minister", the law says "Ministership".
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5162	The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5163	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, are here today, in the assembly debate there is another one in a series, as the promoters like to say, historicly important acts, i.e. the pro-schengen laws. The bill on the protection of the state border is nothing more than another rather indeterminate act, which, above all, does not respect the political reality in which we live. Even these numerous attempts, first of all, of the SRS MPs, to fix the proposed laws through amendments, as much as possible, will be difficult to solve that fundamental problem. With the will of the ruling majority, it is likely that this law will see the light of day, if they do not have the breath left of this gas these days, but remains justifiably concerned that, like all previous ones in the set, which we have discussed during the previous days, only a dead letter will remain on paper. When it comes to the proposal for a law on the protection of the state border, the main problem is that the state of Serbia, thanks to this non-national regime, led by Euro-integration, at this point, does not really know where its state borders are. It is difficult and unrealistic to expect from someone who does not respect the Constitution and the law to respect at least such a legal act, just as with the law on the protection of personal data, the law on foreigners, especially with this peak of the hypocrisy of the government, it is the law on the establishment of this anti-corruption agency. On behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6(1), requesting that point 4 be deleted, deeming it excessive and already contained in point 1. Point 4 reads - check that the person meets the conditions for entry, or exit from the Republic of Serbia. I felt that this was completely unnecessary, since at this point in the first point of the mentioned article, it is said that there is an insight into travel or other documents prescribed for the crossing of state borders. The government, of course, and what else would have rejected the proposed amendment, with a rather ghastly and incoherent explanation, referring to the already mentioned law on foreigners, more specifically, to Article 11 of the same law, so that the adoption of this amendment would allegedly be in some legal discrepancy. To the truth, this Article of the 11th Act on Foreigners formulates the way in which the entry into the Republic of Serbia is refused to a foreigner and already in the 1st position says – if there is no valid travel document or visa, if necessary. Given what I pointed out in this opening note, there is no need to wonder at the phenomena that we of the SRS have pointed out before, related to the non-compliance of the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Serbia in the area covered by the state border of Serbia, which is, of course, Kosovo and Metohija. The people of the DS are much closer, obviously, and more legally acceptable so-called. The state of Kosovo, and all for the sake of power. The best, and already mentioned, is an example of Stanko Jakovljevic, a DS official, who is still trying to cheer and dress under the auspices of Thaci's brotherhood, although my fellow MP Avramovic and I, in July, seem to have received an official explanation from the Ministry that Stanko Jakovljevic, former co-ordinator, has no more ingenuity, i.e. after the elections held on 11 May and the takeover of power by Serbian radicals, and in the municipality of Strpce, as well as in most municipalities at KIM, are therefore the authorities of the Serbian state. However, on 8 August, I also have a decision on some staff solutions, on the appointment of certain directors for individual departments, and all of which, of course, regarding Article 62(2). Law on local self-government of Kosovo, etc. That is why it should be no surprise that there was no resolution on KIM before the MPs of the Serbian Parliament, and that is why, apparently, no one is surprised that all is ready for Mission Eulex to soon rule this southern Serbian province. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5164	MP Zoran Krasic, on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5165	At first, I will have to point out the problem that was present in the foreign law, and it is also in this law, both in this and in the subsequent members of the bill. The use of the word "Minister" and "Minister" here has some logic. But what you wrote was wrong. Why is it wrong? Now let me explain. Because the ministry is the authority of the state administration, and the minister is a member of the government, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is true that the State Administration Act prescribes that the minister adopts general acts to define who does so in the ministry. But in the Ministry Act and in Article 136. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed something else, which you have not applied in these proposals of the law. Just to remind you that the internal arrangements of the ministries and other authorities and state administration organisations are prescribed by the government. This has so far been stereotyped by a regulation. As far as the State Administration Act is concerned, I hope you know that within the ministries there are authorities of the administration and they can be administrations, inspectorates and directorates. Directorates are only for those professional jobs, which go beyond classic administrative jobs and there's some kind of business connection, it's because of one of the previous laws in which the Retracted Property Directorate was in, and special organisations can be secretaries and seduces. You have not applied this organization and this structure. What do I mean? If this law prescribes jurisdiction in this area, and that area is a protection of the border, then you cannot go to the internal organisation of the competent ministry, and you, in most of these members, prescribe and say "border police" etc. You shouldn't do that, so before the regulation is an act that determines the interior organisation of the ministry, so before the Ministry Act is a precise jurisdiction and there's no need for you to go with these provisions. Big mistake, I have to draw your attention, it comes from Article 1(1), where the subject of this law is defined. You're saying this law regulates the protection of state borders, organizations and means of protecting them. I would remind you that then, in Article 5(2), the way in which the state border protection is done could not be prescribed by the minister, but by law. You're not consistent with that. You have become victims of Balinche's school, and that is one free writing and interpretation of the law, where, if as an in-coherent body in the ministry, you are then putting the minister in all other regulations. The minister is not an authority of the state administration, it's a ministry. I would now return to this amendment. I must draw your attention to the fact that, among other things, Article 6 of Article 1 states: "Police powers are applied", and police powers are regulated by the Police Act. The law also requires a search and review, because it is police authority. That's what authorized officials do. You're now entering something that's the Ministry's internal organization, so you're talking about border police, so you're pointing out in that 12-point article. The item subject to this amendment is point 4), checking whether the person meets the conditions for entry or exit from the Republic of Serbia. That, I guess, goes with this forward. What is much more dangerous is contained in point 3. It's said, "if there's a suspicion of identity." Well, not every doubt is enough. And I suspect someone, so because I'm an authorized official, because I doubt it, I can measure it. There must be some intensity of that suspicion. It must be established, it must in some way be a serious doubt, and no, in the event of any doubt – come on now, apply police powers. I think it's a big flaw. I'll tell you later about what you stated in article 7. Since we don't have an amendment to Article 7, I think you'll find it interesting. I don't get it at all. It is said: "and actions that can be achieved by law a specific goal". What is the purpose of this law? You said here - the application of authority. It is said in Article 7: "A police officer can apply only those powers, measures and actions which can be achieved by law by means of a specific objective." You have no purpose in this law. By the way, the goal is the last stop point that interferes with human activity. What's your goal here? What is the purpose of this law? The law has no purpose. It's Zoran Balinovac's school. Anything can be done in a free, archaic form. Therefore, the attitude begins with "although", "although" etc. You laughed sweetly at Mr Jojic's presentation, but he told you one great truth – the SFRY never had an official border towards Albania. There were some tables, there were some pillars, etc., but never internationally verified, catastrian, etc. Just to remind you, the previous government, headed by Vojislav Kostunica, not only in the previous term, but in the first one, it negotiated, negotiated and established the border between the Republic of Serbia and Macedonia, not only this part, as they say – Presevo Valley, but also Bezovica. Are you asking for the fulfillment of this agreement? You're not looking. I can't call Dacic now. Two months a man is a minister. What has been done since 2000 for the Kumanovo Agreement? Why didn't someone sue to implement the Kumanski Agreement? He's clear. Why didn't someone sue to implement Resolution 1244, dot by point, number 1, number 2, number 3, and not to whine for point 9? No, start at the first point, then get to 15. No, you will ask the Resolution for an advisory opinion, turkey dots do not apply, etc. I think this law has a lot of indiscretions, inaccuracies, and it needs to be precise, because it regulates two very important things: and protection of borders, and control of crossing the border. I don't know, it's probably Tanja Miscevic fooled you, because that kind of stupidity can't be mastered on planet Earth, and that's in Article 2, where you're interpreting some concepts, in point 7. It ends like this: "and other activities that threaten stability in the region". People, ensure stability in the Republic of Serbia, don't worry about the region. Why would you worry about what's going on in Bulgaria? Let's solve what's within the borders of the Republic of Serbia. What boundaries? The ones the Constitution recognizes. It's your territory. This extends the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia. There are the authorities of the Republic of Serbia. It is important for us to ensure that we respect constitutional order and respect for the law in that territory. We are not able to solve things with us, and now we will be able to lead the white world's trinity and dogs, as in the region, the stability of the region. What's a region for you? Is the Kosovo and Metohija region for you? Excuse me, please, if for you Kosovo and Metohija is a region, not an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, then you have broken your oath. However, the oath no longer applies in the church.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5166	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5167	The Honorable Presidency, Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment is more of a principled nature and it reads as follows: "Article 6(1), point 6 is deleted". This point 6) reads as follows: a police officer 'checks the purpose of the journey of the person'. How's he gonna check out the purpose of the trip? Well, they'll ask that face that crosses the border, or it comes or comes out of Serbia, where it's gone. I think this is a little funny and degutant, because good and honest people will always give you an answer where they're going, at least roughly, but those who have the organs of order and because of which there is this enhanced security border they'll never tell you where they're going, especially those that, say, stop at Horgos, so ask him where he's going, and he says, I'm going to a friend's house in Bujanovac. Then from Bujanovac jumps to Velika Trnovec, there fills those factory hollows in the car and with some weird packets comes back. Where was he? He was really up to the Bujanovac, but he'll never tell you why he went there. That's why, on the one hand, this is degutant. The government's explanation of not accepting this amendment is that it is not accepted for the reason that the provision strengthens the control of the movement of foreigners on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, thereby further ensuring the protection of the state border. So they'll never give you the right answer, and yet you have in the Constitution Article 39, where they say, "Everyone has the right to move freely and live in the Republic of Serbia, to leave and return to it. Freedom of movement and housing and the right to leave the Republic of Serbia can be limited by law, if necessary, to conduct a criminal procedure, to protect public order and peace, to prevent the spread of infectious diseases or to defend the Republic of Serbia." So if a person, mentioned earlier, who is not good and fair, deals with certain acts that are criminal, it is already under some measure, or is accompanied, so that they already burden him or limit certain laws, and by these other laws, criminal and similar, his movements will be sanctioned; he will be detained, or, if our citizen is, he will be deprived of a travel document, that he cannot leave the country while an investigation or some process is ongoing and so forth. I think this is a little bit degutant - checking out the purpose of the trip. Someone at the border is gonna tell a cop where he's going to start a crime. I say, those good, well-intentioned, they'll always tell you where they're going. I think it's a little too high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5168	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5169	Dear fellow Members of the People, I would not miss the opportunity to explain this amendment to Mr Myaljević, or to supplement him in an explanation. Yesterday I asked one, I think, interesting question to the President of the Republic, about Wolfgang Ischinger, who should come to Belgrade and, as he announced, put forward a new proposal for so-called. The neutral status of Kosovo and Metohija. Today, a Pristina daily, not just one, more of them, and Fonet quoted it as saying that Ischinger, a former European Union mediator in the three Contact Group, said he was confident that within a few years Kosovo and Serbia would jointly seek ways to establish functional co-operation between the two countries. So he immediately said that he now sees two countries. He said -- Kosovo, he said -- Serbia, will give up the position they now have, so what has been so far, it doesn't count, and will sit together for the negotiating table on status. His idea was made during the negotiations on Kosovo's future status, that the resolution based on the 1973 Western-East German agreement could be a recipe for Kosovo and Metohija. So, my question, which was referred to the President of the Republic yesterday, is that on behalf of Serbia negotiating with Ischinger on this issue and in this way, in direct connection with this amendment, and I am very interested in whether the border police will ask him – Mr Ischinger, when he comes to the ground of Serbia, which is why you came here, and is he going to answer your question – here, I came to negotiate with you about this and this, what we were talking about now, I want to take away a part of your territory? Indeed, I doubt he'll answer that, although I know the police tend to stop traffic, the traffic police stop the vehicle, so he asks someone during the night, where you've been. They asked my daughter that question once, and then she asked a policeman, and did you cheat on a woman, and he smiled and asked, "How do you ask me?" She said, "How do you ask me where I've been?" I think it's too high in this amendment to stand, because no one's going to tell you the real truth, because you don't have any way of knowing the answer to the question you'd possibly ask. So the amendment makes sense. Think about it, but it was a lot easier for me to let you know that we were right yesterday when we were such an important subject of principles, because we were really worried that the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija had not come to the agenda. She's still, as we can see, preparing. It's possible there's a next session, but by then, it's likely that many circumstances will change, we'll probably be served some new circumstances that we don't even know will happen. In order for that to not happen, we warn you in advance, the President of the Republic, to take care of what he is doing, where he is moving, within the framework of the Constitution and resolutions and the declarations we have brought to Parliament so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5170	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5171	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I certainly agree with Mr. Myaljevic, and I believe that the amendment is completely rational and justified. I justify my position on this by the experience that people who work at the border crossings have given me. Since I come from a border municipality, I've had contacts and conversations with them and I think it's perfectly justified and rational to withdraw this point in law from this Article 6. In fact, experience suggests that these things, in principle, always created some unpleasant situations for those working at the border. You can never judge the nature of someone who comes to the border crossing, who enters the country, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, you can never guarantee with certainty that our civil servant in some, let me say, the boundaries of decent and normal to move; they will always be inclined to create, perhaps, some unpleasant situation or incident, and as an excuse, they will call, of course, to the law. On the other hand, when we talked about a set of anti-corruption laws, we didn't have the number of MPs here mentioning xenophobicity. Here's another point in the law that, perhaps, could be defined by that, and we claim to promote European standards, European laws. It also seems to give me enough space to accept Mr. Myaljevic's amendment. As for the government's argument, it's kind of, I'd say, inconclusive and thin. You say the provision strengthens the control of the movement of foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which further secures the protection of the state border. Personally, I don't think this is a mechanism that can guarantee what you've stated in your explanation, because this country, in general, has no major problems with people who come to the border. The problem of this country is that those who don't think well, or who think evil, have received at the highest state level in the last few years in this country, that is, with the highest state honors. In this Article 6, there is something else to be mentioned, of course, which is the fact that there are basically all those things that will make it difficult to apply the laws in practice. I'd look back on a few things. You have, for example, point 3 – if there is a suspicion of identity, i.e. the credibility of the travel document, fingerprints, palms, faces and other biometric data are taken. I don't think Serbia, with joint efforts and all open pre-accession funds, will be able to train border crossings over the next five to 10 years to apply this high-tech technology. You remember that farce with the 200 biometric passports, when he made a commitment to make them, he took that great duke from the Meridian Bank. Because of his incompetence, he accused the opposition of making obstructions and of not being able to do what needed to be done, and then accused an incompetent state administration, which, among other things, he had managed for eight years. You have point 11 – in case all parts of the means of transport are searched, the disassembly of the means of transport is carried out. I come from Pcinj County, which has four border crossings. Of those four border crossings, I think there are conditions, I'm not sure, at just one crossing point, that this point of the law is applied, or, say, point 12), where it's said that technical means, official dogs, etc. are specifically used. All that is foreseen here, definitely, over the next few years will not be able to apply in practice, and it seems to me that one such approach in the legislation, in writing and implementing the law, leaves an unserious impression on us, especially among those for whom you are interested in life, that is, with the European Union. In the end, I'll take the opportunity, Mr. Minister, since you're here, to say something. I was in a principle debate, and after a principle debate, I spoke with your colleagues from the Ministry. I repeat, I come from the border municipality, from Surdulica, and they have shown a good will to talk about an initiative, that, possibly, we are in the field to implement it in practice. In fact, it's a border crossing of the Strezimirovci, located in the municipality of Surdulica, where I think there are conditions for such a thing. Even the law provides for a measure that will help us to improve and raise the level of the border crossing I'm talking about. I think it'll provide a few things, first of all, what you're looking for, and that's to clear the border crossing of Gradina, which is, objectively, overloaded. On the other hand, the conditions in which people at the border would work would be incomparably better than they are now. What's very important is that this transition is also on a corridor merger in Bulgaria and our corridor A-10, which is very interesting for the perspective. Of course, I think that would trigger something that, especially in one party, on this left hand side, someone is just declaratively representing and promoting for eight years, that's this G17 and its minister. I think that we would achieve this even regional development, and I think that this south of Serbia and the municipality of Surdulic and the entire Pcinj County would give us an objective chance to overcome the accumulated economic, social and all other problems in an easier way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5172	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Arsen Djuric submitted to the 18th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Dusan Maric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5173	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 21 of Article 5 of the Border Protection Act, which is the part that regulates the issuing of movement and retention permits in the area of the border crossing. Paragraph 5 reads: "The form of the permit for movement and retention in the area of the border crossing and the way it is issued is prescribed by the minister responsible for internal affairs". With my amendment, I propose that the word "minister in charge" be replaced by the words "minister of jurisdiction" so that the area is not in charge of the minister, but the ministry. I find that more logical. We are discussing the law on the protection of the state border in a situation where, on a good part of Serbia's territory, it is KIM that we cannot approach that border within a hundred kilometers, let alone control it and protect it. Why is that? NATO's international terrorist organisation, led by the United States, has the highest credit, but it also has the high credit for this record regime, more specifically, all the dossuing regimes, because they have not made enough efforts to ensure respect for Resolution 1244, which guarantees the return of the Serb military and police to the KIM. One of the reasons why this return is made possible by Resolution 1244 is to control the state border between Serbia and Albania, i.e. Serbia and Macedonia. What most Serbian citizens don't know is that we also have major problems with the state border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'll talk about it today. The Drina border, around which long and difficult media, political and military wars have been waged over the past centuries, around which the most intense, so to speak, are nationalist, Serbian, Croatian, Muslim songs, in practice, do not exist. Between the two brotherly republics, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, never, at a time when they were together in the SFRY, nor after these wars, a border line has been established, nor a border contract has been signed. There is only the border of catastrian municipalities, which was built between Austria and Serbia in 1910, and based on state diameters from 1968 and 1980. Four months after establishing diplomatic relations between BiH and Serbia, an interstate commission was formed on 27 April 2001, which was tasked with resolving the problem, to establish a borderline. The commission has met, I think, 15 times in these seven years, but it hasn't moved from a dead end, has found any solution. Chuck, they still haven't figured out a way, order of moves on how to solve this problem. Serbia is proposing to resolve the problem by establishing a border line, and then signing an interstate border contract. Muslim members of the BiH commission, which represent the majority, suggest the opposite order of moves. They suggest signing a border contract and then resolving issues afterwards. What exactly would that mean in the field? I'll give you an example. That would mean 50% of the Drina hydropower plants, Zvornik Lake and Bajina Basta, which are fully owned by Serbia, would practically become the property of Bosnia and Herzegovina. When a man reads the state commission's materials, it is difficult to take the impression that Bosnia and Herzegovina is avoiding making a deal on the border for political reasons, for some internal political reasons, which were used in the local elections campaign in BiH. It is obvious that the unresolved issue between BiH and Serbia is using the regime in Sarajevo to heat up the political atmosphere and, indirectly, continue to accuse Serbia of having some territorial claims towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are six disputed points on the non-existent border between BiH and Serbia. It is the area of the village of Raca, Janja, the area of Zvornik Lake, the area of hydroaccumulation ''Bajina Basta', the area of the railway station Strpci and the area of the municipality of Rudo and Priboj. When it comes to the Raca area, the problem has arisen over time, decades, centuries, and now it's been decades, the Drina River is moving east. The river Drina's trough moves east and this movement is over 30 square kilometers, it is 30km and 300 ha of land belonging to Serbia, left on the left bank of Drina. The problem is so much that, for example, the Raca border crossing, which practically belongs to BiH, is a Bosnian border crossing, located on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The second disputed point is the area of the village of Janja, in which it does not matter, but I can point out that the majority Muslim population lives. The problem also arose by moving the Drina River to the east, on land belonging to Serbia. It's over 1,000 ha. The inhabitants of that village built their houses, cottages, even, there are economic plants, gravel, etc. For decades, they have been using this land, belonging to private persons from Serbia, without permission or compensation. Next, perhaps the biggest problem, is the problem of demarcation at the hydroaccumulation "Zvornik Lake". Serbia is proposing to solve the problem by taking the border through the river Drina corridor, as foreseen by international conventions, up to 200m ahead of the dam, then going right at the left bank of Drina, 400m would take the mainland downriver, 200m after the dam would return to the Drina trough. Thus, Serbia would cross about 140 hectares on the left bank of Drina. The same principle of demarcation Serbia also proposes in the field of hydroaccumulation of Bajina Basta. The only difference is that this elbow would be slightly larger, so Serbia would have 20 ha more, i.e. 160 ha in total. In this way, Serbia would receive exactly 300 ha of Trans-Drin territory. However, the BiH demarcation proposal does not lose anything. On the contrary, it gets more than 1,000 ha of land. Here's why. When a plan was developed to build a hydrocenter, the budget was the highest level of water. Serbia bought that land and paid for it to the last dinar. This land that covered the hydroaccumulation of "Zvornik Lake" and "Bajina Basta" is practically owned by the Republic of Serbia. The proposal Serbia proposes, the majority of the land, 1044 ha, would give BiH, and from 1344 ha, Serbia would hold only 300 ha. The proposal for demarcation proposed by BiH, hydrocentres and hydroaccumulation would practically cut into two parts, up to half of the hydropower, would have owned Serbia, from half of BiH. What does that mean? This means that tomorrow, if it comes to the authorities in Sarajevo, let's say, because of the tightening of relations with Serbia, BiH could prevent the operation of the dam, from removing the garbage, applying it in front of hydrothermia, and these applications can sometimes endanger the functioning of hydro-gas, to removing faults, etc. The next disputed point is the train station in Strpci. A 10km and 900m-long Belgrade-Bar track in the village of Strpci crosses the territory of BiH. From that length, 6 km and 900 meters of waste on tunnels, 500 meters of waste on two viaducts and a bridge across the river Jablanica. It's unskilled land, pastures, devastated forest. There are no buildings in this area, there are no houses. Serbia is proposing that the problem be resolved by joining the railway line, with the following facilities, and the railway was made by the Republic of Serbia, that the railway line, with the railway station, would be attached to Serbia, and BiH would be deprived of another similar territory, somewhere else, where BiH would prefer it. The biggest problem exists in the Priboj municipality. With the current demarcation, two-thirds of the population of the Municipality of Priboj, practically, there is no way to reach the town of Priboj in a normal way, to the seat of its municipality. Formal-legislatively, the non-existent border between the two countries has been cut off by the following villages, as far as 11 villages are concerned: Batkovići, Kasidol, Severin, Zabrđe, Zabrnje, Zabrnje, Herzegova Golasa, Pribojska Golasa, Gučje, Kaludjerovici, Sočić and Krgnaca. The villages have a total of about 5,000 inhabitants. To get to the municipality headquarters, to Priboj, they have twice as much water abroad. There's a road across BiH, and they mostly use it. The length of that road is 10 km. The second road leads across Prijepolje and Pljevlja in Montenegro, and it is 120 km long. In order for people to live a normal life, Serbia proposes a rational solution, to be part of the territory, it is 2130 ha, it joins Serbia. In that case, three villages located in BiH, Ustibar, Wekronoga, Mioce, would be attached to Serbia. Serbia offers the same solution as in Zvornik, Bajina Basta, Strpc, that BiH settles on another part of the border territory, where it is more suited to it. It is important that 1700 people live in these three villages, of which 1200 Serbs. Why am I saying all this? Not because I advocate establishing the border between BiH and Serbia, I would like that border never to exist, never to be established and never to be signed a state border contract. However, the fact that 13 years after the Dayton Agreement and eight years since the five-October coup, this issue has not been resolved, imposes some thought on our foreign policy and suggests that the foreign policy, the state policy, in this case, is not correct. Every day, we hear that in Serbia, practically, ever since the Dossow parties are in power, especially DS, everything is far from democracy. In BiH, the same process. Both countries, a running step, break their legs to join the EU. Both in the other country, Javier Solana was happy to see a guest, with whom top officials and one and other countries welcome each other with warm hugs. Sarajevo remains an on-call spit room when it comes to Serbia's policy and you know that there, not only representatives of some NGOs, but also top state officials often leave, the presidents of individual political parties, and in the blackest way speak about Serbia, its policy, especially about politics towards BiH. You know for a fact that President Tadic once went to Sarajevo and unilaterally apologized to Muslims for the crimes that Serb military and police units committed against the people, that he did not ensure that Muslims were also adequately apologized for the crimes committed against Serbs. With all this in mind, all this humble policy that we are leading towards BiH is the question – how did we not provide such a policy to solve these, objectively, petty problems, how did we not ensure that BiH would agree to this distinction, which, in practice, would receive a territorial increase? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5174	Thank you. He's got an SRS in a minute. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. The government has accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legally possible. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5175	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a law on the protection of the state border, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment relating to Article 27, so that Article 2 is changed and said – after reviewing the means of transport and stuff, the police officer is obliged to issue a certificate. I think this should be a police officer's obligation to control the crossing across the border. Namely, in Article 27. The bill reads: "The user of the means of transport and things must be present in the examination of them". Item 2: "If the person of the position of the 1st member requires this, the review of the means of transport and things is required by the police officer to issue a certificate." To avoid whether or not someone wants to, or whether they have an obligation or not, this amendment clearly defines what a police officer is required to do at the border crossing. To take advantage of the opportunity to point with this amendment the problems we have in the space of Kosovo and Metohija at so-called administrative crossings. On the one hand, we have a crossing that is controlled by the Cypriot separatists and terrorists, on the other hand, we have free passages. However, this is now a topic discussed by both Europe and the United Nations, only not being discussed in the Serbian Parliament. I must remind you, Minister, that, when you were in the campaign, you were making statements that, if necessary, both the military and the police should be hired, only in order to protect and defend Kosovo and Metohija, especially Serbs who remained in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. We know that the UNMIK and KFOR mission is present in Kosovo and Metohija, under Resolution 1244, but these days, under the orders of United Nations Secretary-General Banki Muna, the so-called KFOR and UNMIK reconfiguration is being carried out and we have been working on the installation of the Eulex mission, which is being deployed in the midst controlled by the Cypriots. In the meantime, we get warrants, today we read in the press, where Ban Ki Moon asks Javier Solana that the Eulex mission can be installed in the space of Kosovo and Metohija, but that there is no requirement for the status of Kosovo and Metohija. What is missing and what confuses all citizens in Serbia, and especially Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, is precisely not knowing what is the stance, which is the policy of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia towards Kosovo and Metohija, what is the position of the President of the Republic, what is the position of the Prime Minister. It's all vague and undefined. The earlier practice in this assembly was to adopt resolutions that both the President of the Republic and the President of the Assembly, as well as the prime minister, to behave in accordance with that resolution and to represent such views in their public statements. At this point, we have different statements, whether it is the President of the Republic, or the Prime Minister, or certain ministers, so the people, that citizens are confused, and this particularly brings anxiety and anxiety to the citizens in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, because we do not have a clear view of this assembly, a clear view of the Government of the Republic of Serbia regarding Mission Eulex, which these days is being installed in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Once again, I would like to ask for additional efforts to finally come out with the resolution, adopted by MPs in the Serbian Parliament, and that resolution would be binding on all officials in the state of Serbia. Otherwise, it is known that certain parliamentary groups in this assembly are against the installation of the Eulex Mission. That is what the resolution that we last adopted in this high house obliges us to do. But why is one such resolution avoided and most MPs decided and created a policy that would be binding on the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, as well as on specific ministries? On the other hand, you are all familiar, I have told you on several occasions that the Assembly of the Community of Serb municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija, that in this community, delegates from all municipalities where elections were held following the decision of the Government of Serbia were held, that all parliamentary parties present in this assembly, who participated in the elections in Kosovo and Metohija, that we have the Assembly where the president is radical, because the radicals won the most votes, that the vice-presidents of the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Democratic Party of Serbia and the Socialist Party of Serbia, that they participate in the work of representatives from the political party G17 plus, from the Group of citizens of Goranci, were left two vacant seats for representatives of the Muslim national minority and Roma national minorities and will be filled. So, completely, all who participated in the May 11th elections in Kosovo and Metohija, they accepted it. As far as I know, there is a decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to recognise that institution, i.e. Assembly of the Community of Kosovo and Metohija municipalities. However, we have a problem in communication with the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, because we have a decision by the previous minister to finance the institution, which is the minimum means necessary for work, for printing propaganda material, for printing calls, so that, from time to time, we can gather and coordinate problems, and the problems are the same in almost all municipalities in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Once again here, from this pay phone, I would like to appeal to the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to receive a delegation from the Assembly of the Community to present our problems and find opportunities to help us, as well as the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because it has also been asked to receive us, to present the problems that are daily in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. I hope that these talks with representatives of the Community Assembly would help bring the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija into this assembly at last. She would have a binding character in how to behave, not to have free shooters on Serbia's political scene and not to have this uninterrupted, illegal Eulex mission, which has no cover. It is another violation of international law, one violent mission, carried out by the power of Secretary General Banki Moon's decision and has no foothold in the United Nations. We are aware that only the decision of the United Nations or the United Nations Assembly has a binding character to accept one country that is a member of the United Nations. I therefore once again appeal to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and to the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to receive a delegation of the Kosovo and Metohija Assembly as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5176	Mr. Dejan Mirovic, about the amendment. Five and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5177	Ladies and gentlemen, about the debate on the law on the protection of the state border and the amendment ahead of us, and on the basis of Article 182. The constitution, which states that the Republic of Serbia has the Autonomous province of Vojvodina and the AP of Kosovo and Metohija, is asking for notice whether there has been a change in the state border and state policy towards Kosovo and Metohija? In fact, will the implementation of Ischinger's 2007 plan or the European Union's plan take place? Mr Ischinger said, on 21 October 2008, that his plan to normalise relations between the phantom state of Kosovo and the Republic of Serbia should be applied. The plan is based on the 1973 Agreement between West and East Germany. Also, the proposal is identical with provisions of a Stabilisation and Association Agreement and good neighbourly relations between Serbia and neighbouring countries. Is it finally this new concerted policy of the state summit, or Mr Tadic and these new opposition, gathered around the citizen Nikolic, in connection with Kosovo, which has been announced in the print media these days? Finally, if anything was to be accepted from German diplomatic experience, it is the Halstein doctrine, and it should have been applied selectively, precisely, according to Mr. Manter and Wardsworth and the countries they represent, because of their public and impertinent commitment to the so-called. the state of Kosovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5178	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is wanted by Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5179	Dear Presidents, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, I have submitted only three amendments to the law on the protection of the state border, the amendment to Article 36 is one of the first, in the belief that at least one will be accepted by the government, or Mr. Minister. Since Mr. Minister was a hard-hearted man, so he didn't accept any, I was forced to explain how I wanted to improve this law with this amendment. Therefore, Article 36 of the Law on the Protection of the State Border, in paragraph 2, states: ‘Operator, i.e. the commander of a water facility, motor vehicle driver and other person who manages a transport vehicle, shall ensure that passengers do not leave the transport vehicle and the area of the border crossing before the controls prescribed by this law, i.e. that no other persons are boarded or disembarked after the controls have been completed’. My amendment reads that in Article 36(2), the words "a means of transport" are deleted. So, what's the explanation? The adoption of this amendment would, above all, allow passengers of motor vehicles to sometimes wait several hours at border crossings easier and more humanely. It is especially important when children, elderly or patients are in vehicles, and are forced to wait at some annual intervals for several hours at the border crossings, so that they can meet some basic essential needs by getting out of the vehicle. Let me explain. So it's clear that until the passengers cross the border, or border crossing, they should stay at the border crossing, as it is written here. Practically, it turns out that the operator, i.e. the carrier, or the owner of the motor vehicle, clearly, of the passenger car, until the border control is carried out, cannot leave the vehicle. We know for ourselves that in the tourist season, first of all, and also because of some other delays, when there are many trucks, on the border there are several hours waiting, and according to Article 36 of the Law, as the government has suggested, it turns out that none of the passengers can leave this vehicle if these laws were strictly applied. Since the government, or the minister, did not accept this amendment, I would use my time, not even, to which I have the right under my Rules of Procedure to explain this amendment, to remind the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Police that we, as MPs here, have been expecting the government to propose measures against the government of Montenegro's decision to recognise Kosovo for a false, self-called, independent state. I've got a lot of letters from the citizens, and here come the letters from the carrier unions, or the owner of the means of transport. So, one of these letters is, and I suggest that the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopt it as one of the measures: ''Dear gentlemen, we address you by this letter and demand that the following: 1st emergency tax be taken on goods vehicles registered in the Republic of Montenegro, which carry out transportation in Serbia, reciprocally taxed by the Republic of Montenegro towards vehicles registered in Serbia, so-called. ecological tax; it is approximately 150 euros. Also, we ask for a ban on coats in Serbia and Kosovo vehicles registered in the Republic of Montenegro, as our vehicles are also banned from local transport on the territory of the Republic of Montenegro. We believe that the freight transport in our country is thus threatened and placed in an unequal position towards transporters with vehicles registered in Montenegro. Please comply with this request as soon as possible because otherwise we will be forced to solve the problem by blocking all border crossings and informing the public. This is the Union of Transport Organisations and Related Activities from Cačka. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5180	Thank you. About the amendment, first of all, Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5181	At first, I would just say that if the Government adopts this amendment, it does not cause any problem, since it remains a violation of Article 64(7). According to the formulation of this point 7, I get the impression that, indeed, the words "car" are excess in Article 36(2). But I understand what this is about, it takes some elemental order to secure itself at the border crossing. However, I would draw your attention to some things that are really strange and that I have never seen before, and I've been an MP all these years. I've been following these laws a little bit and professionally, but I've never seen anything like this before. I'd like to draw attention to Article 8 - Border Control by the customs authorities. He starts with the words, "On a proposal from the Ministry, the government can." It is not said – at the proposal of the Minister, but at the Ministry. And who's going to sign that proposal from the Ministry? Secretary of State, Minister, who? Let's move on. Of course, there's some text going there, talking, etc. The following illogicality, Article 13 — Type of border crossings, shall be indicated on a permanent basis, seasonally, temporarily. According to the last position of the member, the procedure for opening, closing and retegorising border crossings is prescribed by the Government, by a general act. It's probably a regulation or something. "The government determines the border crossings, the time and way of crossing the state border, which is governed by an international contract with neighbouring countries." Then it goes, these are temporary border crossings, Article 15: "The interim border crossing can be determined by a minister responsible for internal affairs". So, the minister is not only making general acts, but the solution can also determine where the temporary border crossing will be. I think this is out of the competence of the in-house body of one ministry, this must only be in the government's jurisdiction, according to what is written in Article 13 -- permanent, seasonal and temporary transitions. That whole member only treats the government. Let's move on. Article 16 — Border crossing area. Here is the inconsistency: "The border crossing area is determined by the Ministry's solution", not by the Minister, but by the Ministry. Is this a solution that determines the area of an individual act, or is that a solution to a general act? See the following point: 'At common locations of border crossing points, the border crossing area with the neighbouring country shall be determined in accordance with the international contract'. There's no Minister, there's no Ministry. Let's move on. Article 17, it's a world miracle. Since the DOS came to power, we have executed, people, everything, and SRJ, and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and we no longer have any domestic flights in the air, all international flights; and to Podgorica - international flight, and to Tivta - international flight. Now, since this is the case, DOS made Serbia's "Fildjan state", they did not finish the dirty work, so you know, Serbian citizens, they still have a reduction in the project, KiM, Vojvodina, the Raska area, Belgrade Pashaluk, pre-berlin Serbia. It is a goal that Boris Tadic must achieve, because he has entered that machine and has no exit. If you get out of that machine, you know what Secret Service is doing from abroad, so let's be clear. I'll let you know in advance, so you don't say I didn't inform you tomorrow. Now, you explain to me, and to a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, how to interpret the position of Article 3 17: "The operator of the airport of the 2nd position of this member is obliged to provide a space that allows the separation of passengers in international traffic from other passengers"? We only have international traffic at the Surcin airport, and international traffic, though, seasonal character, we also have in Nis, Nis-Cyrich. What's to be separated there? What are the domestic flights? That's two days ago, Tadic and his Sutanovac, Shuki-Plazma, Shuki-Zikri, these two planes, which was a joint exercise. What's the next flight? The flight is when Tadic leaves with his adviser, interior minister and his adviser, a helicopter to Tara, and then there's no room for a police director. It's all the air traffic in Serbia. There's something about Vršac, where they practice and take money from these students from abroad who come to dress for pilots. Why put it in the law when it doesn't belong here? Let's move on. And the permit form is prescribed by the minister. Article 19(2) for construction in the area of border crossings says: "The investor or designer is required to obtain consent for works from the ministry". Why isn't he getting it from the minister? Who's gonna sign it at the Ministry, which administration? It's undefined, it's tampered with. Why is it tampered with? Fight it, then rule it. When it's inaccurate, then there's room for volunteerism and everything and everything. Let's get back to Article 36. This article is really given, I fully understand what the goal is, what it wants to achieve – to enable competent authorities working at the border crossing so that they can exercise control and that, during the control exercise, nobody mysteriously disappears. I don't think this threatened sentence against operators, vehicle owners, etc., can stop it unless the organs are active on site. What is the activity of our organs? For eight years now, I've been repeating more questions every year, but one always in the same formulation. We still don't know how many foreigners work in the state service. If you go to the General Staff, there are more sides in the parking lot than domestic registrations. It is a public secret that some people from abroad, foreign citizens, advise the Sutanovec. It's a similar situation in other ministries. It is known, in the War Crimes Court, the US Embassy's legal advisor is far above anyone who enters that court. Everyone has to report to him. And then there's Natasa Kandic. Let's move on -- the Foreign Ministry. Does anyone know how many foreigners work there? Just to remind you, when Svilanovic came to the minister, he said, "There is no correspondence with crypto protection, there is no faxes," so that every drought could see what was going on as official state correspondence. I don't know how many government members have dual citizenship. Some might even have a triple. Since 2000, it has become an "in" to have other citizenship besides Serbian citizenship, so it is said that I cannot mistake my soul, for Labus, Djelic, probably has, so I have heard that some have gained citizenship in the meantime. Whether it's because of immunity, whether it's due to an interstate conflict over a persona non grata, I'm not getting into it, but we can't get that report. I remember that he quickly exercised the right to citizenship of Jelasic; he submitted, Zivkovic signed, and the next day – Vice Governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, at the time. Now, when these things come to mind like this, the public already knows, the newspaper also wrote about Jelasic's house, and his brother, and about these foreigners who were hired by us. When it's just a little bit known, then I'm really surprised who you can convince that this is a serious government? You can't even convince Milojk of the League, and he doesn't believe this. He knows who you are, what you are. My friend Milojko will be angry. Who are you trying to convince? You want to convince B92, Studio B, RTS, Blic, Pres, Justice, etc.? Don't convince them, they know it. Who can you convince? Who rules in this country? Who's law enforcement? Why laws like this? By system: quarrel, so rule. How can you implement something that would supposedly be a state policy with people you're not sure about when they're going to be in the service? He's throwing money, he's staring abroad. Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, I don't know if the MPs, in the exercise of control of the executive government, and this downstairs which, in the organisation of the state administration, the organisation of the ministries etc., can get a complete list of who is all of the foreigners hired to work in state authorities? Those who have dual citizenship and those who are originally foreigners. So, second information, since when, who hired them, who pays them? Simply to direct the nation, to see what it is, whether to flee from power or to support power. These are very interesting things. Djelic swore to us here. And Nikolic swore to us, so he touched it. Djelic swore here he had no dog to bite him for, so he became a duke, he was from the Meridian Bank, and he was from Bajcetina. What's the difference? In a sack. This one's nodded more, because it was more in the register, the one looks like he couldn't take it anymore. We don't know, we'll see. Please clear these things up. Clean bill - long love, to know who runs this country, who proposes these things. This is the kind of thing all strangers suggest. I can't call Dacic. He's a minister for three months. Who knows who made this bill? The group doesn't change, the ministers change, and the secretaries, the commissioners, it stays. And Cosic was the day before yesterday from a set of judicial laws. He's 30 years in the Ministry. Tie the horse where the boss says, and he, a man, does so. Probably, as a civil servant, that's how it's supposed to work. I'm telling you, this doesn't come from our legal system. Mr. Dacic knows Hisman Kljajevic. Do you know when Hisman Kljajevic would have had this? Never, perhaps, ever. The man held the legal system in his hands, he kept an eye on it, because the legislation couldn't just go through some kind of failure. Contradictive provisions, conflict clauses, there's no way they're getting through. Now, as you get to the law, you just cross and move aside. So "Belgrade is the world", Batic, which used to be a parole, is true because there is an international airport in Belgrade. No internal traffic. No, they cut the state down and they all say, "That's good, that's democratic." Of course, then goes the media group, how good it is, if it's a nice suit, did he say nice, was he cultured from the pay phone, did he treat himself well, did he announce that one sentence he was going to say, did he respect tolerance for 16 minutes? I'm supposed to be tolerated, and you're supposed to be breaking up my country! Where's that, folks? Explain it to me. How can I be tolerant, and you're tearing up everything I have? Everything has become my abroad. What happened to that Javier Solan? She had to drop the criminal charges, he had to stop the criminal procedure, so people wouldn't blush when he was admitted at the Surish airport, and he signed the bombing, he signed to do this kind of damage. And you made him a star. Some until a few days ago attacked both NATO and the EU, yesterday – the European Union in the first row, applause, Rocky Marcano, there is no, bato, Italian stallion. Oh, my Dacic, and I filed a criminal report, with evidence of common knowledge. Take care of what you keep. We'll call you here. This law, with some dorado, a hand-to-heart, can be a good law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5182	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5183	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, I am reporting under Rule 225 - the MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary to perform the function of the MP. I assume a small number of you know that UN spokesman Alexander Ivanko has made a statement in Serbia that he is Andrew Lendley, who is a UN envoy and who is talking to Serbian officials about some of the problems related to KIM. He no longer wanted to say anything, but apparently something is happening in Serbia that Serbian citizens do not know, which the MPs of the Republika Srpska Assembly do not know. Today we had talks with the Minister for KIM, Mr Bogdanovic. In one word, he did not say that some talks are taking place in Serbia, and this leads us to suspect that some things are happening under the grain. And all of these statements, in particular Boris Tadic's statements about Eulex, indicate that Boris Tadic and DS are trying to help both the European Union and America to accept EULEX in some way as a mission, by probably adopting EULEX on a proposal from the Security Council. That would be devastating for Serbia. We just can't let that happen. We are now coming up with a question that makes you for almost two months not allowing the motion for a resolution, which has filed 108 MPs, to be on the agenda. It is now quite clear why you are making it difficult to talk with parliamentary groups when it comes to the motion for a resolution, which would be acceptable for the largest number of MPs in the Serbian Parliament. This brings us back to the situation that Boris Tadic will face Serbian citizens, as he did in January 2007, and say that Kosovo and Metohija's independence is an effective thing, that there is nothing we can do and that we accept US and EU requirements to get to Europe as soon as possible, in order for Serbian citizens to live better, all the passwords you are throwing out. Therefore, Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, I ask you to inform the official state authorities whether it is true that Andrew Lendli is in Serbia, whether he is negotiating with whom he is negotiating and what is the subject of these negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5184	Thank you. The word is Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5185	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, I would like to support the amendment of Mr. Miroslav Markevic, who is extremely good, which is practical and lifelike. Imagine a situation at the border crossing without being able to leave the means of transport; the temperature is 40 degrees, lots of children in means of transport. It is a situation that is extremely unbearable and I think this amendment is extremely good and I expect you to accept it. As for these taxes, it was very embarrassing for every citizen of Serbia when he went to Montenegro this summer, to the sea, and when virtually everyone could pass the ID card, and then it was marked with those 10 euros. Not so much for 10 euros, as humiliating. When you go a little bit and you want to, for example, go around Biograd Lake, then you come across a new tax. Every man who wants to visit a really nice National Park of Biograd Lake, every passenger has to pay three or five euros just to approach that national beauty of Montenegro. It's unacceptable not to respect any reciprocity. Carriers from Serbia must pay 150 euros in taxes to be able to transport. It is not only the 150-euro issue, Mr. Minister, but the problem is that they are not only damaged because of 150 euros, but their transport cannot be as curent as the transport of their counterparts from Montenegro who do not pay for it. Surely it should be influenced to abolish it or introduce reciprocal measures. What I'm also saying is that when two states separate, rights and obligations are inherited. If Serbian citizens are found to have cars with Montenegrin plates, absolutely, Mr. Minister, they should be allowed to reregister vehicles. It expects thousands of Serbian citizens, because it is their right. It was not their fault that the two states split up, for in some relations rights and obligations are inherited. Therefore, every citizen of Serbia has the right to register a vehicle, because when we registered a vehicle, the situation was a common state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5186	Thank you, Mr. Savior. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, the word is Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5187	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry to have to use the Rules of Procedure, but I am reporting for amendments, to warn the minister that Mr Markicevic's amendment should be accepted, because it is simply impossible to do what you are asking here to ensure that passengers do not leave the means of transport and the area of the border crossing. It's perfectly fine not to leave the border crossing area, but the means of transport must leave, for several reasons. For example, truck drivers, or trucks, have to leave the vehicle to take the papers to the freighter to sign up. Not to tell you, you've had a chance to see, at a time of great tourist villages, that the crowds in that belt between the two borders are so much that it's simply impossible to cross it in some optimal time. What are you going to do now? What can a bus driver or any other means of transport do to comply with this law? It's just that life doesn't allow things like this to happen. You've got to take care of it. Or take a water facility. He comes to the port, and everyone has to be at the waterfront. Well, they have to go to the captain's office, they have to take the passports and the other stuff, the passengers or anyone else, but if they're there, they can't leave the border area. It's okay. If someone does, they should report it, but this is simply impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5188	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) The 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5189	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 50. Proposal for a law on the protection of the state border, which regulates the issue of setting the state border. The article reads: "The state border is determined by an international contract. The preparation for the conclusion of international demarcation and state border contracts shall be carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and by other state bodies, in a manner which will be regulated by the Government', etc. I suggest that the word "competent Ministry" be replaced by the words "The Ministry of Foreign Affairs". This is where I made one mistake in printing, when I was typing; it was supposed to be "The Foreign Ministry", I put "The Foreign Ministry", but I see that other colleagues are using the term "The Foreign Ministry". It's probably left over because of the habit and the fact that we had the Foreign Ministry for 50 years. In an explanation for which the amendment is rejected, it is said – the government does not accept this amendment because the member's formulation provides for a more comprehensive solution, binding to the jurisdiction of the said ministry, regardless of what name the given ministry currently has, which is a variable category. Indeed, I don't see what the ministry should be dealing with foreign and foreign affairs other than a ministry bearing that name. Unless someone from the ruling coalition foresees the possibility of expanding the number of ministries and dividing the foreign ministry into two ministries. I will return to the problem of Serbia's border in the KIM area. One of the most important state bodies to deal with the Kosovo and Metohija issues, including the KIM border issue, is certainly the Assembly Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. I must say, because of the citizens of Serbia, as a member of the KiM Committee, I don't know if that committee is still alive. In fact, he hasn't given signs of life in three months. The first and last session was held in July, I think it was July 17th. I will remind you of what Committee President Borislav Pelevic said at that session. He has always criticised members of the DS Committee and other ruling parties, why they do not attend the Committee's "dog-mouth" sessions, as the people would say, was scolded by DS Minister Goran Bogdanovic. He interrupted the session, asking the service to invite Minister Bogdanovic to attend. Minister Bogdanovic explained that he could not come, which Mr Pelevic concluded that future meetings of the Committee would not be held without the presence of the minister, and Mr Pelevic's main position at the session was that the future foreign policy, in fact, Serbia's policy towards KIM, would not be led by the KIM ministry, but by the Assembly Committee, and, as foreseen by law, would serve the committee. The next day, from this assembly pay phone, Borislav Pelevic said a few more very important things. He said that the KiM Committee will not meet once a month, not twice a month, but that the Committee is in a permanent session from that day on. He said - we will not hold sessions in Belgrade, at least once a month we will hold meetings at KIM, to show the Serbian people that we are with him, etc. A bunch of promises from Borislav Pelevic, who is, by the way, for those who do not know and who do not know, the right hand of Tomislav Nikolic. Since three months have passed, the Committee has not held a single session. When Mr. Pelevic spoke from this pay phone, I got the impression, given the euphoria that was said, of the determination that Mr. Pelevic performed, that soon, with the members of the Committee, we would free Kosovo and Metohija. Here's why I reached such a conclusion. He is sitting on the board as President Borislav Pelevic, a cut-off warrior, Colonel of the Serbian Voluntary Guards – Željko Raznatovic Arkana. The board member is General Bozidar Delic, and I spent some time on the battlefield, commanding units of the Serb army. I thought that when the Committee members, with us at the helm, set out on KIM, with the logistical support of Oliver Ivanovic and Minister Goran Bogdanovic, the Cypriot terrorists and this NATO force will not stop before the Curse. Since then, I repeat, it's been three months. No sign of the board. I'm asking for a notice from the president of the assembly, is the KIM board alive or dead? Because of Serbian citizens, I have to say what happened around Kosovo and KIM in the meantime. Mission Eulex, contrary to international law and against domestic law, arrived in Kosovo and Metohija. On all sides, serious information is coming in, he is now talking about it, I think, and Dragan Todorovic, that there are serious intentions, meaning that talks on the legalisation of the illegal mission are in the final phase. Montenegro and Macedonia have recognised the independent terrorist formation of KIM. KIM was even involved in the United Nations General Assembly. The International Court of Justice announced yesterday on the subject of KIM, saying that the process run at Serbia's request on the legality of KIM's declaration of independence will also allow Kosovo's representatives to participate. Only Kosovo and Metohija are not concerned with an authority that should deal with the issue first and foremost. It's the KiM Committee. What's this board doing? Don't do anything. What's the president of this committee doing? He does nothing except participate in the theft of parliamentary mandates, he participates in stealing the Serbian citizens' electoral will, and he creates new political parties based on the theft. At last night's rally at the "Sava" centre, one of the main messages said by Borislav Pelevic and his counterparts, is that they will defend Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia's composition. I'm afraid if they defend him, the KiM defence will come to an empty story, as is an empty story about the work of the KIM Committee in the Serbian Parliament. As a member of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, it seems to me that this is in line with the Rules of Procedure, I ask the National Assembly to schedule a meeting of the KIM Committee in an urgent period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5190	Mr. Vladan Batic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5191	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, Mr. Minister, I would like to say to you, Madam President, that you have not noticed that I have reported on the previous amendment, Mr. Markicevic. I raised my hand, and you've already moved on to the next amendment. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to suggest the Minister of the Interior that this amendment, as rational, as life rational, accepts, because, indeed, I don't know what this provision means. I guess it's overwritten from somewhere, but then it's not overwritten. "The motor vehicle driver or other person who manages the means of transport shall be required to ensure that passengers do not leave the means of transport. "How? Let's get ourselves into a life-real situation. Somebody stop you from hitchhiking, take the hitchhiker. Well, you can't command his actions. A man forgot his passport, it happened to me, you get to the border, you don't have a passport, turn around and walk away. The problems arise when the control is complete, and no matter where there's no control, nothing happens. It's very irrational here. How can a driver provide someone's presence? Not to mention all the other reasons that point to the absurdity of this provision. That's one dimension. The other dimension and problem of this whole law is that it is completely ignored, too, by a life situation concerning KIM. In this law, the promoter acts like Alice in a country of wonders, as if the situation in KIM is not who it is. My question to you is – where is Kosovo in this law? Where is Serbia's border when it comes to Kosovo? Where is the border line, where are the border crossings, whether towards Albania or between, I don't know what to call, the narrow part of Serbia and KIM? Where does that say in this law? We have to act in agreement with reality, because one is wishes, and the other is reality. Either this law was meant to contain a special section concerning state border issues in relation to KIM, or it should be a state border law, not counting the position of KIM. We cannot act as - Kosovo is ours, I speak figuratively, so the state border law refers to that position. It's not like that. When we look at the border crossings, Mr. Dacic, in Serbia, they're like we're at war. There is no place in Europe, there is no place in civilised countries such as the unsettled, so depraved, so miserable and miserable border crossings as they are in Serbia. We have something that seems offensive. When you cross from Serbia to Croatia, to Republika Srpska, to Bulgaria, then you see what yours is, and what their border crossing is, then you're quite defeated. It doesn't have much to do with you, but I wanted to tell Mr. Krasic, as he mentioned me, in a positive context, but it can also be taken negatively, because the DOS has been mentioned. Mr. Krasic, KIM sovereignty was lost in 1999. So neither this year has Serbia lost sovereignty nor this year Kosovo has become an independent and sovereign state. Again, I am talking about the practical situation, not the formal legal situation, or any desire, Kosovo is not a sovereign state, because it has no effective authority in its entire territory. The country that has international forces, UNMIK, KFOR, EULEX, cannot be sovereign. A state that doesn't control a part of its territory can't be sovereign. Unfortunately, over Kosovo, we, too, as a state of Serbia, have not had effective power since 1999. I don't want to politicize anything. I'm just dealing with the fact that I'm in a state-of-the-art state-of-the-art state-of-the-art situation. Of course, as president and MP of the DHSS, as you know, neither I nor will accept the independence of KIM. I wouldn't compete here in patriotism and it's not my motive or my theme, I just want us all to be realistic about things, the way they are. You know I've never sat on a cannabe with Solan, that's what some others did. You know I filed a criminal report, if it can be called criminal charges, Louise Arbur, the then chief prosecutor of the UN tribunal, precisely against Javier Solana and Leslie Clark, for the unprecedented civilian casualties at the time of NATO intervention. That's a fact. Also, I have nothing to be ashamed of when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. For years, with my associates, I have been gathering evidence of terrorism and the crimes of KLA leaders, so some others, who had been in power for years, remembered that Ramush Haradinaj was a war criminal when he became prime minister of Kosovo, so they remembered that Agim Ceku was a war criminal when he became prime minister of Kosovo. Until then, they kept quiet about it. They didn't remember. To those who made a coalition agreement, I am talking about the government of Vojislav Kostunica, first of all in the coalition agreement, was that it would be preserved and strengthened by the SCG state community – it disintegrated, but they remained in power. So they said -- Kosovo will forever be Serbia, it will preserve the integrity of KIM, so it did not happen, so they remain in power and are calling for democracy. The two main principles of democracy are responsibility and exchangeability. That, unfortunately, didn't happen. Now every day we look at pictures with Ollie Rehn; it seems to me that his diplomatic mission would be completed with the conclusion of the story of Serbia, both his and Solana's. They are now beginning to receive businessmen, and I expect that some estrate stars will soon meet with Ollie Reno, seeking to protect themselves and some of their endangered human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5192	MP Zoran Krasic, on the amendment. You've got seven and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5193	I'm getting away from Batic. My joke was the propo of that Chank. When you say DOS, shut your nose. Never mind. The sovereignty, unfortunately, in Serbia and the former SFRY, has become a very stretching category. Now I'm gonna go with what Batic said, where he's absolutely right. Croatia had no sovereignty in the territory of Republika Srpska, had no active authority, had no control over the territory, so it was recognised by the Vatican and, at the time, by the European Community, later and some other powers, as a sovereign state. The collective recognition was on 6 January 1992, and as far as BiH is concerned, I think it was in April 1992. That's one dimension. There's one theory that says -- it's only the sovereign one who has the atomic bomb. There is something that is a classic definition of sovereignty and that, Mr Dacic, is in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As for 1999, it was a crime against peace. That is how the UN tribunal's Commission, the Prosecutor's Office, established it, but said - we cannot initiate the procedure, because there is no crime against peace in the Hague tribunal's Statute. There are violations of the laws and customs of war, there are war crimes, there are crimes against humanity, but there is no anti-peace, there is no anti-aggression. What happened? Someone sued, dropped the charges, but let's go from what was in 1999. The only ones who were against Plan Ahtisaari-Charnomidin were the MPs of the SRS, they were sitting here. Everyone else was in. Even Vuk Draskovic spoke – people, now the UN will take care of Serbs in KIM. Peace prevailed and the attack was on all sides, at the time, on the government. Not to mention DS, they were talking at the time -- bomb for another seven days, this isn't enough. We're talking DS, not US embassy agents. I'll talk about them later. From the point of view of international law, Mr Batic, that's where you remembered later, so you've corrected, the sovereignty of the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia as a legal follower in KIM territory has been guaranteed. The problem is that the implementation of the Kumanovo Agreement has not sought power since 2001. Why do I say, since 2001? Because by 2001, the government in Serbia was in hostile relations with NATO and the European Community, and at that time the opposition, and after power, since 25 January 2001, in friendly relations. At that time, both the Prime Minister and almost all the leaders and leaders, not to go any further by my relatives, the DOS president, said that being installed in Kosovo and Metohija, these are the DOS partners, and they need to be dealt with as partners. Here, we can get thousands of soldiers and police officers back, but the problem is no one's asking from Serbia. It's not enough to ask, Mr. Batic, you're in opposition now, I've been in opposition since 2001, so here we go, but those in power won't. I know Dacic's pressuring these, but what's worth it, he's one piece only in that power. Dad and Goody said, "No, son, we push like this, we push like this, "greater old men" decided. We push like this, humbly, obediently, so is Tito. Well, they're wrong, it's not the same time. So sovereignty exists. Now, if Ms. Slavica Djukic would not be angry with me, Mr. Dacic, I think the first position of the member to be the subject of this amendment, which is Article 50, must be deleted. The government must submit an amendment and request that this first position be deleted. Here's why he has to do it. He's got to do it because of Article 8. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia – territory and borders. First position: 'The territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique and indivisible. Item 2: "The border of the Republic of Serbia is invulnerable and is changed after the procedure foreseen for the change of the Constitution". Please, as far as establishing the border is concerned, it is concluded from the view of the Constitution; possibly, some changes may be in accordance with the Constitution. The position of the second of this Article 50 is in that sense fully compatible with the second position of Article 8. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, while in the first position of this Article in the 50th, you say - the state border is determined by an international contract. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The other's attitude respects certain things, but the other's attitude is extremely imprecise. Why? Not just because you mention one ministry, not just because you mention other authorities, but because you speak, according to the law. In accordance with what law? Which of our laws can bind the other side with which we talk about the border? So it can be arranged by an international contract, but from the point of view of determination, please, it's over. That's why I told you, the position of Article 1 of the 50th Amendment is deleted from this bill, because the word "determined" can seem very stimulating for these processes, for example, in Vojvodina. Because, you see, and when that omnibus of the law on the rights of the autonomous province was passed, everyone was watching, those of the Democratic Party, of this Chank piece, and so on, what to build on from inaccurate formulations, allegedly, only to fight for autonomy, and that wasn't autonomy, but to strive to achieve separatism. That's why you need to be very precise in the laws, because Jovic talked this morning, the border, the external enemy, and we have a much larger number of internal enemies. We have agencies to run, to run, to engage in political life, to the media, to the economy, to those strangers everywhere. They are not here for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. No, I don't. So this is what I've been trying to show you. But now I'm going back to that story about sovereignty. That by no means does Serbia have sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija, then even this resolution in the General Assembly could not be passed, that this resolution would also grant us the right to seek the protection of some of our rights before the International Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5194	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5195	So I would recommend that you act on this proposal, especially that this position of Article 1 50. Delete the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5196	Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? (No) The 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Markicevic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5197	The President-in-Office, Section VI of the Bill – on the marking of the state border, in Article 53, reads: "The owner or user of the land is obliged to allow a free passage for the establishment and maintenance of the prescribed marks in the area of the border crossing". As far as the New Serbia Parliamentary Group is concerned, it is nothing controversial, but we have suggested, I say on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, that after saying "passage", the words "with compensation for the estimated damage". The reason is that land owners, i.e. land users at which the border crossing is set, will be adequately compensated for the damage done, which is in accordance with the existing laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I may seem naive, but this is how I realized it. If a citizen has a plot, say, of a field on the state border itself, and has sown wheat, then it happens that the state authorities open up a border crossing there and use that land, so, people say, they trample out that wheat. I don't know why this owner, the peasant, our farmer, wouldn't have the right to a fair fee? I think this amendment is quite logical and should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5198	Thank you. Mr. Jojic, about the amendment. Here you go. You've raised the Rules of Procedure, so I'm asking. About the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5199	Ladies and gentlemen, I think my colleague Markevic's amendment was justified and should have been accepted. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to look back, if you'll allow me, on the previous amendment, i.e. to Article 50. As for the definition of Article 50, ladies and gentlemen, in this article, this definition could not be set up and envisaged. Disposition of this standard advances the possibility of border changes. In Article 50, it was meant to be a definition – the state border is unchangeable. It's a finished story. Whether it was established through international contracts or otherwise, however, but, in my deep conviction, the only definition that would be appropriate, or acceptable, is that the state border is invariable. So, Serbia's borders are established. In the position of the 2nd member, it is possible that, when it comes to the borders of the Republic of Serbia, preparations for the conclusion of international agreements on demarcation and the establishment of a state border, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other state bodies, in a manner to be regulated by the Government, in co-operation with the competent authorities of neighbouring countries. A very problematic provision. Without the law, there is no possibility of giving authority to the foreign minister to, in agreement with Thaci, prepare a demarcation contract. In addition, we expected the Government to submit an amendment to this provision. However, the foreign ministry cannot, without this assembly, do anything and prepare contracts with anyone. He can't. It may, but it may be passed a law which will specify which other competent state body will be involved in the preparation of the demarcation. The flaw of this member is, I repeat, which cannot stand, and should not. This is unfair, this is wrong, this disposition of the norm is, absolutely, too wide and it cannot live in practice. There will be abuse here of certain powers. So it is said - the state border is determined by an international contract. Can we agree, then, that we have no boundaries, because we have no limits? This definition can only be provided in one provision – since Serbia has no established limit. Serbia's borders are determined, in that case, by a contract, and by an international contract, but now to speak, retroactively, if the borders are established, that we are giving the possibility of others crossing them, and there is a great danger that the current government will establish borders with Thaci, there is a problem. You can't, ladies and gentlemen, think about establishing the borders by means of an international agreement between Albania and Serbia and ending, creating other borders, because the geographical map is that unique catastrian plot of Serbia. Do not play by allowing yourself the luxury of overcoming it, regardless of NATO's introduction of temporary measures in Kosovo and Metohija. These are, ladies and gentlemen, temporary measures, so don't mind me being in a position to draw your attention that no one else can change the existing boundaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5200	Thank you. The word is Zoran Krasic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5201	In order to understand what the applicant of the amendment wanted to achieve, it must first look at Article 2 point 5, that is the area of the border crossing, and then Article 18, that is to mark the area of the border crossing, where there are also competences as to what should be done, the form, the content, the mark which sets, when it sets up, and then, just, to reach Article 53, which essentially regulates the office of passage. Practically, it's the only thing that regulates it. However, I think you've put this as a backup variant, because if you go back to what's in Article 2 point 5 as the definition of the border crossing area and the one in Article 18, then probably, when it comes to the border crossing, if there's a mark to be placed by the road, it's already traffic regulations, and I don't see what other mark to set. Border lines are already something else, other members treat it, not this Article 53. I don't see what the point of this is. Probably, that passage service exists. You may have forgotten to insert something that associates with real burdens regarding the very being of a mark on other people's land, but it is regulated by some other regulations. It's bad for you to explain why the amendment is not accepted. If damage to the property of the owner or user of the immovable property resulting from the setting and maintenance of that crossing occurs, then, by general rules, the resulting damage to the State shall be eligible. I think it's covered by that regulation. Now, this is quite obvious now, the service of the pass without compensation. There can't be a fee contract, but the damage obligation certainly exists. In that sense, I answered, because in an explanation you say there is no possibility of compensation for damages, because there is no guilt etc. Guilt is a completely irrelevant thing for this. It's all regulated. However, I get the impression that you, some explanations, why you reject some amendments, simply put us in an awkward situation that we need to know 17 laws, and you don't have to know any. It's really embarrassing to discuss it then. Then why should we discuss it? This is a classic example of passage service and I'm giving you an idea. You probably had to solve something about these white ones that are being placed on the real burden system. That's another question you didn't want to solve. It may be settled by some other regulations, I know it is, but it doesn't matter now. But when you say there's no compensation, then you're really causing it. This amendment is probably the result, first of all, of an elementary sense of justice that exists with MPs, so they say, well, someone will pass, but I guess it's responsible for the damage. He must be responsible for the damage. When it's a state, it's a state. Now, as you've organized the state for the last few years, who's going to answer, I don't know. The state of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of the Interior, the border police, will be sued, so I don't know what that lawsuit will look like about defining who's being sued, everything and everything will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5202	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Mrs Svetlana Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5203	Articles 225 and 226 of Rules of Procedure The city's assembly adopted a statute on October 17th that gives the Belgrade city the right to establish its television, its radio stations, newspapers and other means of public information. So Belgrade was granted a status contrary to the Public Information Act, according to which the founder of the public reads cannot be either the Republic, the city, the local self-government, or companies that have majority or minority state property. The citizens of Belgrade, therefore, will be able to pay another subscription for the city's public service, in addition to the subscription they already pay for RTS. Today, the most significant associations of NUNS journalists, the Association of Journalists of Serbia, ANEM, the Independent Society of Journalists of Vojvodina and the Local Press announced that the Constitutional Court of Serbia would submit a proposal for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of this member of the Statute of Belgrade, so that I feel the need to inform MPs and the public that the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia in the Belgrade Assembly has submitted an amendment requesting that this unconstitutional and republican law be deleted, but the amendment was rejected without much debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5204	Thank you. It's Mrs. Judita Popovic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5205	Madam President, the presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members Markicevic has tabled two very rational amendments, which is an amendment to Article 36(2) and Article 53. I really think that we should take these amendments a little more seriously and adopt them. With regard to this Article 53, I am starting to assume that the time has finally come in this country that private property is, indeed, very important and that it should be protected maximumly. Besides, I'm starting to assume that we're a legal state, so if the state does any damage to a physical person, it's due to the damage to make up for it. Too bad, I remind you, it's a reduction in someone's property and it would be necessary to bring that property into its previous state, and that can only be done if that damage is compensated. No matter how much you think that there might be no harm if someone went through the plot, the field of the physical face, to place and maintain the prescribed tags, it doesn't have to look like that. In life, there may be cases of this field being functional, therefore, that it is sown, that there are crops and, normally, passing through that field can cause some damage. At that time, the owner of the farm was forced to claim damages from the state, but a member of 53, who absolutely does not oblige the state to compensate for the damage. To avoid future long-term trials, I would really suggest that the amendment by my colleague Markic is adopted because it is extremely rational and economical for future actions. With regard to Article 36, unfortunately, I did not report earlier, but I would just like to supplement the previous presentations and explanations of my colleague Markicevic on this amendment. Indeed, it is rational to consider that there are often traffic at border crossings, so if passengers stay in that means of transport, I don't think it's of any importance to the state and state borders. We don't protect the state border by condemning people to sit in overheated cars. Therefore, I think it is perfectly rational for them to adopt the amendment to Article 36 and to be a member of 56 counterpart Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5206	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5207	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the honourable president, Mr. Minister, the amendment of Republika Srpska MP Miroslav Markevic is extremely good, as the predecessors from several political parties have said, namely, that these two amendments are extremely good and that they should be accepted. In the amendment to Article 53, property rights are also infested. I think that the times when someone could have crossed the limits of someone's freedom of land use, not literally the border, long ago behind us and that absolutely the right of property, especially private property, should not be in any case injure. He's got to make up for the damages to the owners. There must be an agreement between the state and the owners of those private lands. What if they don't, how are we going to apply what we want, how are we going to do something to someone by force without making up for the damage? As I did on the previous amendment, I pointed out that comparison with the stolen vehicles, so on and here. I don't suppose the state will allow citizens and private property owners to deal with the state by burying the courts with private lawsuits, first of all, claims of compensation for damages?- I'm sorry. Like I said, where would we go if all those car owners were now going to stand trial with the state? Our courts would practically be blocked. As in this case, private property is absolutely right, land property is untouchable. A compromise must be found and it must be borne in mind that the amendment is very good, that in this case the damage must be compensated. I repeat again, do everything, as Minister of the Interior, as Vice-President of the Government, to return their acquired right to the owners of motor vehicles – to re-register the vehicle. I think it's something that needs to be resolved urgently. They have to protect people who haven't done anything wrong to be damaged and can't use moving things like cars. So, once again, Minister, I urge you to come out to meet the citizens who have cars and to reregister the vehicle on our plates. It's something that is absolutely, absolutely normal, absolutely, in accordance with the Constitution and with the law of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5208	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) Member of the 55th amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. He's got Mrs. Radica Jocic's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5209	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 55. The proposal for a law on the protection of the state border, which is contained in the chapter: Determining, marking and regulating the state border, which refers to a violation of the state border and reads: "Infringing state borders, or border incidents, is determined by the Ministry. State border infringements, i.e. border incidents, are resolved in accordance with an international contract, or diplomatically, if there is no international contract. The way to determine violations of the state border and border incidents is prescribed by the minister responsible for internal affairs." The amendment provides for the words "Minister in power" in Article 55(3) to be replaced by the words "Minister in power". It is known that in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, only state authorities have the right to lay down regulations, while ministers, as elders of those authorities, cannot have such rights. The government did not accept this amendment, as well as several previous ones that were related to such a matter, although it is not, as the government's argument puts it, a sublaw, but a bill. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs from the ruling coalition, we understand that this is just another one of the laws you are obliged to adopt before 6 November, so that you can boast at an international conference in Zagreb, when it is discussed how many countries are so-called. The Western Balkans crossed the road map towards the European Union. We know that your date is when this law will be adopted much more important than the essence of the law itself and how much it will contribute to solving the problem on the ground, with which people in charge of implementing the provisions of this law meet. What you said yesterday after the amendment to the Foreign Law bill, Mr. Minister, is the essence of the whole story. By adopting these two laws, your ministry has done its part of the job. You, as minister, have satisfied, as Mrs Judita Popovic said the other day, vice-president of the National Assembly, the form of democracy, you have carefully, politely and patiently listened to all speakers. The procedure is fully respected, and the result of the whole story is, as usual, the same: the government does not accept any, or, as in this case, accepts two, and rejects all others, i.e., here, 13 amendments. Then comes the day of the vote, the law passes by tightly, but mostly, then Jovo, again. A report by the Legislative Committee, which has been delivered to us, on the proposal for a law on the protection of the state border, states that the bill is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so as someone who is trying to understand all this better, I am asked the question – which makes it possible for the president of a country to talk to the neighbouring country's president, and this secessionist state, agree to recognise a new border on the territory of his country? In Article 8. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which regulates territory and borders, literally states: "The territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique and indivisible. The border of the Republic of Serbia is non-injurious, and changes according to the procedure foreseen for the change of the Constitution." Is the president of the state obliged to respect the Constitution of his own state? If he doesn't respect him, how can you expect others to respect him? Do you, Mr. Minister, think it is normal for the foreign minister of a sovereign state, ours, to tell the government of the neighbouring state that, if he recognises a self-proclaimed quasi-ship state, the only thing that could happen to her would be that she would be left without an ambassador to Belgrade?- I'm sorry. Of course, that ambassador will be returned in a few months, and nothing. I know there's a lot of our people out there, and I know there's a lot of Montenegrins here, that the situation is very complicated, but do we have to be so humble and peaceable about whatever happens to us? To make peace with everyone and on all matters, to forgive, and yet, if possible, to apologize?- I'm sorry. Then, at about the same time, the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, to which Vojvodina, as a regional autonomy, attaches certain characteristics of statehood and sovereignty to us. We need to accept in a few days, quite logically, the explanation that it is not true that this statute opens two devastating possibilities – the creation of the state of Vojvodina in the state of Serbia and the secession of the Subotic County and perhaps the whole of Vojvodina. About the protection of what border, Mr. Minister, is this bill speaking? Should the citizens of Serbia, who daily suffer to put an end to the end and survive until the next child's allowance, minimumer or pension, begin to fear every morning if any of the neighbouring states have shown any claims towards one of our border territories? How many miles should we live far from the border, within the territory of Serbia, so that we can be calm? What piece of this troubled country should we live on, so that we can make sure that in some international trade between the White World Powers, someone doesn't think of replacing this territory for a better life, for a shortcut to the European Union, a white Schengen list, or who knows what else? I would like to take the opportunity to address my former colleagues with lost resignations, to tell them that it is an insult to me, as a national MP in the second term elected from the list of SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj, which in general occurred to them that on the staircase in front of the hall that I am entering to represent the interests of the citizens of the Pirot County, who voted for the SRS and Dr Vojislav Seselj, imagine, by no means challenged, offering access to their caller. They should be ashamed. What I'm reporting to you in the hallway is just a reflection of my fine education. I chose Dr Vojislav Seselj's path back in 1996, and now after these actions of yours, I am even more convinced that this is the path of the real, fair, Serbian radicals, whose word and honor comes first. I urge you to consider your actions, to stop putting pressure on our MPs and committees in local congregations. What you caught in the blur is over, now a growing number is clear on what's going on. What you're offering on all sides of employment around the place is that you've agreed with those who are in power, and who is it, rather than DS. They're the only ones who can provide that. You're nowhere in power to offer it, or maybe it's your tycoons. So, please, don't insult the dignity of Serbian radicals and offer them your access cards. Save them for those former yellow ones you boasted about yesterday, and they abandoned you yesterday in front of the Parliament itself. Maybe they change their minds, so you'll need them.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5210	Thank you. On the occasion of the amendment, Mr Milan Veselinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5211	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just wanted to continue the story of my colleague, who said a lot about protecting the state border and about our amendment aimed at improving the law on the protection of the state border, and not just this amendment, but a series of our amendments that are bound and synchronized with each other, with the aim of getting this law, as much as possible, what we want to get. Unfortunately, you have seen today that on many occasions we also mention the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in particular Article 8, which guarantees the sovereignty of the Serbian state, unity, as well as the inviolability of our borders. In the law on the protection of the state border, there are a lot of members who predicate for some international contracts. What international agreements and what borders is that, in fact, concrete, where is this border? It is mostly regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but unfortunately, this law, as it is made up, is in many ways denying what is provided for in the Constitution. All day long, SRS MPs have been calling for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with the aim of reminding the government of the Kumanski Agreement, which was formed in 1999, which we voted against, which was then voted by the SPS and the SPS, particularly as a winner of the agreement, saying that Serbs at the KIM had won their rights, they received a stalemate from the United Nations that our military and police would return, etc. All day long we've been saying that we don't respect this Kumanski Agreement, we don't refer to its provisions, we're not asking the international community to apply the Kumanski Agreement. To this day, nothing has been applied since the agreement, our army and police have not returned to Kosovo and Metohija, and Serbs have moved on from the KIM area. It is said in this article that if the border is broken, we will make some reconciliation to the international treaty. I don't know if we have an international agreement with Macedonia, for example, and there are daily incidents, on the one hand and on the other, not to mention the administrative border of KIM, which we don't recognise, but that's not only what not to take international forces, but, unfortunately, Serbia's MUP is quite indolent in that too. In the end, they don't have enough power to protect our administrative border, on the one hand or on the other, first of all, from these Shiparian secessionists. We know that by coming to power, in 2000, these domania, or as they are now popularly called 'Yellow', have done everything to destroy our army, to tear up that federal army of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro, and then, with all their powers, they have done everything they can to destroy and destroy the Ministry of Interior, or our police. Nobody trusts anyone today. What is this force, or our strength that can protect the state border and that can protect Serbian citizens? Almost no one, not even in the deep interior of the Republic of Serbia, is sure which military force will be able to strike from which side to win further our territories continue to be torn apart by the state of Serbia. I must say here openly that all Serbian citizens continue to have great mistrust and chills towards this government, according to the majority that makes this power, because, day by day, it is trying in every possible way to continue secession of the Serbian state, starting with the reorganisation of the Serbian state, and then dividing the Vojvodina in some areas. Even, we see today, both in the press and in the public, that every zone there is marked with certain boundaries and colors, which means that our Serbian Vojvodina can experience something that happened in Kosovo and Metohija, unfortunately, by further regionalisation, or by supporting those environments, or those districts, as you call them, a region where the Serb people are in the minority. We can expect further secession, action by deed, the state of Serbia. Therefore, from this point on, I call on Mr. Minister to do everything possible to strengthen the forces of Serbia's MUP so that they can protect our state border, that at any moment they can prevent not only a smooth crossing across the state border, but also that of the smallest corruption and smuggling at the state border. We are aware that there are a lot of problems, especially in parts towards Kosovo and Metohija, Montenegro and Macedonia, but we must have so many and so many powers that can protect Serbian citizens. Personally, I do not believe in this Sutanovac, who talks day by day to the damage of Serbia, which destroys the Army of the Republic of Serbia from day to day. That is why I believe in these people, patriots, who are in the Army of the Republic of Serbia and in the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia, who probably love this country as much as I do, as many do here. That is why I call once again to do everything to make Serbia's citizens safer. I call on the government of Serbia and the minister to accept our amendments, because this is what we are doing to improve this legislative project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5212	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to Article 56 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Christin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5213	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on border protection. It is a ban on the cultivation of certain agricultural cultures, which refers to Article 56. For the sake of visibility of the border line, the minister responsible for internal affairs may prohibit the collection of certain types of agricultural cultures, i.e. the planting of certain types of fruit and trees and other plants, within 100 metres of the border line, and if this requires reasons for safety - and at a greater distance. In the case referred to in Article 1, the owner, i.e. the land user, shall not be entitled to compensation for damages. I asked in article 56 to take the 1st position: "Minister in charge", replacing the words "Secretary in power". Regardless, Minister, what you are is the one who signs and approves, the position of the SRS is that it should be done by the ministry as a state body, not by the minister as an individual. Why doesn't the land user have the right to compensation for damages? I put, instead of the word "no", the word "has" the right to compensation for damages, because I believe that the owner, i.e. the land user, belongs to the right to compensation for damages, in terms of positive legal regulations. This is the position of the SRS – Dr Vojislav Seselj. Mr. Minister, Mr. Krasic said that someone from the West wrote it, I suppose, but let's not go back to that poor landowner, who you say in this article that you can ban him from sowing certain types of agricultural cultures, that is, planting certain kinds of fruit and trees, and for reasons of the security of the state border. If there's a Law on Land, adopted in 2006, there's a state, private, why, Mr. Minister, didn't you deal with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and make a replacement, so you'd turn it into a state-run, move a private from the state border, and you wouldn't have a problem?- I'm sorry. If the MUP intervenes, the damage to the agricultural land will be huge. However, if read between the lines, it is necessary for that individual agricultural producer, or the owner of the land, to be present in that border area, because it was once they who reported when someone, breaking the law, crossed the state line. In particular, from Romania to Serbia. They were the ones who reported that on that plot, on that and on that and that km, traces of people from one country to another were frequently translated. That's why you're trying to keep these landowners from staying there, but you're avoiding the user of the land to which damage is done, that damage is compensated. That's very bad for that user. You determine which culture will be sown. It is logical that, with the border belt, low growth, deteline, wheat, barley, oatmeal, to make that border belt visible. It's not good to have corn sown, because between the lines can be passed without talking about orchards and vines. Second of all, there are traces from the lucerca, there are traces from the wheat, there are traces from the barley, there are traces from the sheep, because there is never one, but a certain group, especially when it comes to trafficking in white slaves. You were able to correct it with this member, that big mistake, and that the Ministry of Agriculture, in agreement with the MUP, replaces private land with state land. That's the question you solved, and the damage the MUP has done. Believe me, when transporters pass, tanks etc., it's a huge damage on that agricultural land. But, Minister, let me now use you as First Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister. When it comes to land, we tried in the Committee on Agriculture, a colleague, Petar Jojic, even brought in documentation, you know well that the lease of state land has long gone, we showed it on that board, and the minister has even asked us to deliver this documentation to him, to indicate that there are those who have rented state land for one to five years without paying it at all. In SO Zrenjanin, I asked for this land lease paperwork, I got 2,015 pages, and I found that there was a signature, on the left, of the one who bid, and that none of the five members of the commission signed on the 10th page. What's he saying? He's saying that these people are trespassing, and they're not paying anyone. In particular, a colleague of Zivkov presented the case in Old Vienna, it is 11,000 hectares that have been working for three years, and it is... Mr. Minister, I once again asked for the delivery that the entities who bought it to me, when they paid that land lease, which ranged from one to five years, depends on the municipality, on the commission's estimate, whether it should be sold per year, two, three, four or five. I am responsible for saying that at least 80 of those who have bid so far have not paid a penny, not in 2008, but in 2007 and 2006. In 2006, the Land Rental Act came out, but take only into account 2007 and 2008 and see how much the state is losing money just because the Commissions that work in municipalities are irresponsiblely, in agreement with those who bid put money in their pocket, and these come up with huge agricultural areas and do it without any compensation. Gentlemen, we won't let that happen. After this pay phone, we'll be bringing up all the subjects who've done it. This will be the 12th time I ask this as a parliamentary question, to be delivered to us, to the members of the Committee, and to the public, the answer to the question of who are these entities receiving long-term and non-refundable loans from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management? I've never had an answer. I'll tell you, G17 and DS. Dismiss me here at the pay phone and tell me I'm wrong and bring that paper, and let me see who these subjects got, especially non-refundable loans, and they're not members of G17 or DS. Why, as an MP and a member of the Committee, am I not answered on many occasions? When I'm a secretary, I won't name him, I asked – why don't I get an answer to the parliamentary question, he said – the minister said, I won't. We don't give because it's the minister who works with those entities who get that money, and that means the thief. We just thought that we were clearing up a little bit with thieves, then some new ones appear, but not as ministers, but as former members of the SRS, who, of course, founded a parliamentary group, led by Tomislav Nikolic, the man who took my blank resignation, took over, put it in his pocket and thought that that pocket served him as an icon. On the contrary, he can't serve him for anything, only those money he's getting from the U.S. embassies, England, Germany, etc. Mr. Minister, take this seriously. I will insist on this pay phone until we get to the facts – which have been auctioned in all of Serbia for the lease of land, and have not paid a dinar in 2007 and 2008, and it is thousands of hectares. You see how many billions of dinars are damaged by the state's relationship with the municipal government. You've been here three months and I can't point a finger at you. If others had started like you, maybe it would have been better. Don't think of this as praise. You have to prove there's some construction mob, some customs mob, travel, but there's an Earth Mafia, it's now the most widespread. There was also shown "Agrokor", there came Todorovic who bought 300,000 hectares of land in Vojvodina, there was Mr. Aca, Milo Djukanovic's brother, who bought the same, you looked through his fingers, there was Anton Stanaj, the company "Rokshped" at Podgorica, who was arrested at the airport two years ago. Let's not talk about others, I hope other colleagues will tell about others. It must once stand in the way of this land mafia, to see that someone is controlling what is happening in the most fertile part of Serbia, in Vojvodina, where people live exclusively from agriculture. I hope you'll consider what I said, Mr. Minister, along with your advisors, and I'll bring you the documents. I'm telling you, I got the 2015 auction and land lease pages, where there's no commission member to sign, and the one he bid signed. He's working the country now without the dinars to make up for the state. Gentlemen, as long as the SRS is Dr. Vojislav Seselj, we will not allow another mob to be created, called the Earth Mafia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5214	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Krasic has a word. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5215	These two amendments are almost identical, I'm not going to enter the solutions they're offered right now, but I really think some things deserve attention to be commented on, because it's agricultural land along the border. That's the darkness. First, I think that this land is protected and that no harm will be done to that land. The police, when they took over this border, know this little bit about the border crossing, this other one doesn't even know where it is. It's an actual state, because they weren't even trained, so they took something from the military, because someone in the state community assessed, this isn't a newspaper, it's been before, that if you want to go to Europe, then the border can't be controlled by the military, it's the police. Then the border service broke down, a little bit of those officers went to the police, they started working. Those caraules out there sound empty, the police are on some checkpoints. I don't want to talk about quality now, since I've been wandering around Serbia a lot, I've been going around. At one such place I spoke and the priest said to me, "Oh, let go, they haven't been there for two years, they don't know where the border is." Markicevic, Krstin, do not worry about agricultural crops; there is no one there to pass, to see where it is. These aren't even interested in the state line. They have new systems, vans, satellite tracking, cell phone tracking, and they have deep control. At 650km from the Bulgarian border, they follow what is happening at the Bulgarian border. I have to joke with you because it's absolutely unserious. If someone wants to fight against globalism, then they need sarcasm, cynicism, because a healthy argument can't fight globalism. There's something out there where there shouldn't be. This protection exists, border rights, etc., in the Land Zone according to KIM. If you were to control the rest of the border like that, that would be another thing. These other things are clean, they have new white jeeps, which say: border police, border police, Rambo guys, as if they escaped from that rally yesterday, driving that car, talking to the villagers where there are roads, where there's no roads, there's no way they can cross. That's the end of the story. That's our reality. Something around the border crossing is used, and that's the end. From the point of view of the legal system, I think what was proposed in article 56 is unsustainable. Why? I must remind you that one of these, allegedly, European flows, and private property is as sacred. The owner has full rights. This means the right to use, manage and dispose of your own good. And if someone restricts him in the use, management, and availability of his good, he must give that man some satisfaction and compensate for the damage he suffers because he cannot use his own good in the way that he is legally recognized. It's postulate. When the ministry responsible for internal affairs, or the minister responsible for internal affairs, assesses that the law requires them to be asked what kind of culture will be sown from the point of view of the visibility of the border line, it is a measure of limitations. We also have a law on the use of agricultural land. Now it's called the Agricultural Land Act, I think. There is, at the very end of the season, a recognised property right, an uncut right of the owner to use, manage, dispose, and, in the case of agricultural land, even has an obligation to use and process it. Now Serbia, thanks to Boris Tadic, is at a stage where it sells tractors, because the country has already sold, not only this agricultural one in Vojvodina, but also the one that is not being processed. The tractors are now surplus in Serbia. That's the situation of the M.O.P., which has, indeed, the security reasons why it should, I don't know, be a 100-metre border line, that there's some optical visibility, some kind of control. But that's not there, in fact, with us, there isn't. It doesn't exist. This is a provision for the white Schengen list. "Don't take a donkey to green grass." There's none of this, there's none of this. What do you think the regulations apply in the Land Zone, where there are our forces that control and protect Serbia from terrorism, which can be transferred from that territory? See what a nice game of words it is. This applies to the Kumanski Agreement and Resolution 1244. What part? Here, from Merdar, according to horror, the interior of Serbia, the narrow Serbia. Who are we protecting ourselves from? From the UN, because they're the government there. Come on, go over there, and say that some culture is limited. Well, the territory of the municipality of Kursumli has the longest, let's say, administrative line towards KIM territory. Longest. Well, you can't find 500 people in all that territory. Who's processing that? There's no one to process. Who's going to go there to see what culture should be planted? Hansel Dacic to go chasing mountains and forests, to see who planted what? Let it go, it's just for the sake of order put in here. This does not exist in any EU country. It's an interesting thing to look at the concept of the border with misbehavior. The borders between the two states, or between states, are the same as the borders between the neighbour's plots, in the same rank, in the exact same rank. Is that how we treat our borders like private faces? Let's say it's the territory of Kurzumli, where he's stuck, where he doesn't even know where the stone is. If this construction mafia in Belgrade, with Gilas, acted the way it says in this border law, that they behave at the border, so they take their eyes out here. It's worth every inch here. But only in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Zrenjanin. This is what the devaluation of our regulations is - that the frog would lift her foot because she saw the horses weave. That's our whole story. Because of that story, everything and everything can take this paper. Be assured, it will be selectively applied. Let's say, let him buy land near some state border one of the Nicoovic brothers, or Peconi, or Pacolli, or those financed by Tomislav Nikolic. Do you know if you told him what to plant on what plot? Never. But you caught some poor peasant out there, scaring him with this paper, like, something could happen. Well, the only thing they take seriously is the country of our peasants. They're tracking these transmissions, so they say, is it possible they're preparing this for us? They're the only ones guarding the country. Take a walk in these border villages, here, take Bosilegrad, Vlasotince, Surdulica, etc. You see who lives in border villages. And on one side of the border, people of 70, 80 and over, there's no one to look at them. But they have to stick to fear, because whether this watch depends on the Ministry depends on whether it says it can or can't. But the Ministry won't even go that way, it won't pass. While there was an army, there was some control. Ever since the police took over, there's no control. There's no control. These jeeps are spinning along Drina, down the Drina, and Drina is not the limit. That's what we all swore, I guess. Why don't you go down to Macedonia, or Bulgaria, or Romania, or Hungary, up there? Here, to head towards the border to Hungary, you will immediately catch Gojko Radic in Customs as he flies. Arrest Carina, with Gojko Radic. With two bags he came as a refugee to Saturday, now he's got resorts. Well, well, Dacic, are we so incompetent, are we so incompetent and he's so capable? I don't know what you and I have done to God. This is contrary to the basic principles of property rights and that is why such an amendment has been submitted. If someone is already restricting the owner in the use of agricultural land, then probably the Ministry of Agriculture should ask itself, and whoever restricts it should in some way and give him satisfaction in the light of some damages that are caused to him by a government order, the measures the state is carrying out. That's the basic principle of law, and you don't respect it by this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5216	Thank you. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) The 64th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5217	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 64. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of the State Border. Article 64. The proposal for a law on the protection of the state border is prescribed criminal provisions for legal persons. Paragraph 1 states: "The fine of 100,000 to million dinars will be fined for the violation of a legal person" and in point 20) – if it sows certain types of agricultural cultures, that is, plant certain types of fruit and trees and other growth, when it is prohibited by the act of the Minister of Interior. Article 56 of Article 1 of this Act: 'For reasons of visibility of the border line, the minister responsible for internal affairs may prohibit the collection of certain types of agricultural cultures, i.e. the planting of certain types of fruit, trees and other plants, within 100 metres of the border line, and if the reasons for safety require – and at a greater distance'. The amendment to Article 64 paragraph 1 point 20 was tabled with a proposal to say: "Minister of jurisdiction", replacing the words "Ministers of jurisdiction", since the SRS' position is that an act prohibiting the planting of agricultural cultures, fruit and trees and other growing within 100 metres of the border line, and for the sake of visibility of the border line, should be adopted by the Ministry, as a state body, and not by the minister as an individual. The government did not accept the amendment, arguing that according to the State Administration Act, the minister was authorised to adopt regulations, not the Ministry, so neither the Interior Ministry could be the holder of sublegal regulations. The SRS parliamentary group has submitted several amendments with this same content. We intend to amend all the members of the Bills in which this is mentioned, in order to regulate the adoption of acts by the Ministry, not by the Minister, because it is our view that jurisdiction belongs to the Ministry rather than to the Minister. The state administration law, which authorised the minister to pass regulations rather than the ministry, needs to be amended, as well as other laws with such solutions. However, the minister should not have such broad authority. He is the first man of that body and he signs the act, but it is an act of the ministry, not a minister. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 136, states that the tasks of the state administration are carried out by the ministries and other authorities of the state administration laid down by law. So the Constitution gave the primate to the collective organ. At least by adopting a law on the protection of the state border, the government should accept responsibility and, literally, protect the state border, not to allow the further deployment of civil mission Eulex to KIM, as this mission is part of Ahtisaari's plan for Kosovo's independence. I sincerely hope that Mr. Minister will not allow Serbia to lose one millimeter of its borders, because there are also some new dangers for other parts of our country, so that we do not get into a situation where the state border is much shorter. There is something else that the government should take care of -- that never again across the border of the Serbian state, illegally in Albania, the living abducted Serbs, who are killed there, their organs, their heart, kidneys are removed, and then traded with these violently removed organs. Scary data is that when smuggling and trafficking people, 12% of victims are children. And the government should worry a little bit more about that, and I hope Mr. Minister will also make a contribution, because he is in charge of the Council's work on combating human trafficking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5218	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5219	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Serbian radicals are persistently trying to bring the government of the Republic of Serbia into constitutional frameworks, but that seems to be not working very well. And yesterday I was saying, colleague Krasic today, so it's not just about these amendments, where we suggest that instead of the word "minister" we write "ministration". It's not just that it's an SRS attitude, and it is, because we don't think anyone should be given excessive authority, especially when we have experience with some people who thought they had excessive powers, so they abused them so that, said Krstin just now, they put Nikolic in the pocket of our resignations, in other words, stole them, and then last night, on that 'playcas', which broadcast four or five televisions, he said – he went and didn't take anything but ideas. Well, ideas can't take away. Ideology remained in the SRS, SRS ideology and Dr Vojislav Seselj is immortal. It's gone, colleague Krasic, all that's been contained in the criminal charges you filed the other day, our resignations that are also the subject of these criminal charges and have gone scum from the SRS, like these two downstairs who attack colleagues through the hallway, can't get past them, because, God, they're signing their access card. Well, these are serious people, they don't think to join the circus, these are members of the SRS, and don't play anymore and look under the eye, chewing gum, talk some. If you had stayed in the SRS, you would have been messengers, and like this, all three of you who are sitting there and others who are not there. So, Article 136. The constitution, Mr Dacicu, in paragraph 2, says that the affairs of the state administration are carried out by the ministries and other authorities of the state administration by law. So clear as day. Really, I don't see why you in the government, do you have the Secretariat there for legislation? It seems that ever since Balinovac left, no matter how much we criticized him, nothing's been consistent with the Constitution there now. Does anyone care that you have to propose laws in accordance with the Constitution? We may be boring to you, but we must, first of all, for the sake of the record, because of the history of this House, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, for the sake of the legal public, to draw your attention to you proposing laws that are not in accordance with the Constitution. When it comes to, in general, this law, the whole philosophy of this law is that the state borders, which, when it comes to Serbia, are, unfortunately, very disputable, given the political action of some from the top of the government, instead of guarding the military, as is normal, you have listened to the EU, the United States, who is giving you all your orders, hereby establishing that the borders of the state are being guarded by the police. They tricked you into saying that when you enter the EU, there are no borders there, that everything is open there. First, you should have asked them if that's the way it is in their countries, whether their countries have borders, or if they don't have them, whether they're seriously guarding their borders, or if they're joking about it. On the other hand, you've been passing through, I suppose you're passing, I've seen in some newspaper, in a report, where they've all been ministers for the past 100 days, Mr. Dacic, among other things, said he was in Banja Luka. So if you didn't fly on a plane, you had to go to the border crossing or across the Raca, or through Pavlovic I'll do it before. Did you see how solid the border, in a physical sense, is real between Serbia and Republika Srpska? Last year, the Federation of BiH received huge funds from some EU countries to make as firm a limit as possible between the two Serbian states. This year's where the work begins. I want to ask you this and as a question, you may not know the answer now, but I ask you to give us an answer to that question as soon as possible. There are some indications that, regardless of the funds received from the Federation, which received the Federation of BiH from the EU, the funds from Serbia are now building those forts on Raca and on Pavlovic's will. So it's not just that, and we wouldn't intervene just because it costs and we don't know where those funds are, who's funding it, etc., but it's about what every Serb from Serbia who crosses those borders hurts his soul when he sees what that border crossing looks like, either one, or the other, between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska. So, that story, the one from the election campaign, between Dodik and Tadic, etc., it has nothing to do with reality. People are also saddened when people from Republika Srpska come to Serbia, they say that every time they cross that border they want to die of sadness, especially when they see what is being built there, what kind of fortifications will be between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, as if it were the two most hostile states in the world, as if, God forbid, we are in war relations and in war, so they need to create as tight a barricade between the two countries as possible. You were supposed to take care of Mr. Dacic, you and the other members of the government when you proposed this law. Why isn't such a loose relationship with the border crossings applied in Republika Srpska? Why do we need such boundaries there? On the other hand, Serbs crossing the administrative line, living in Kosovo and Metohija, in their country have a problem crossing because it depends on whether someone will think to let them go, or not to think to let them go. You remember how much trouble there was, how many buses were returned, how many students, who wanted to go to Gracanica and visit Serbian shrines, were returned from that administrative crossing, all with the intensities that, day by day, the fact that only a temporary administrative crossing is increasingly taking on the form of a solid state border. That's what the state of Serbia needs to take care of. This is the subject, among other things, of that motion for a resolution of 108 MPs, who cannot see the light of day. In the meantime, there's a lot going on. We hear Tadic again last night, accepts EULEX again, under certain conditions. I don't know what certain conditions mean to him, whether they tell him like this, or pull him by the ear to meet these certain conditions and to accept the deployment of Eulex on the territory of the Serbian state. So you're taking part in the work of this government and I believe, Mr. Dacic, that everything that's going on doesn't fit the political party you represent. Try to fight there for what your former President Slobodan Milosevic fought for, which, above all, he also fought for in The Hague tribunal. Don't let it happen, just because you're gonna stay where you are, destroying the state, and that's unfortunately happening in action. It cannot count on Boris Tadic to do anything good for Serbia. When he was in the woods yesterday, he made a precedent. Natasa Jovanovic talked about it. I don't know how much time I have, but two sentences. She was talking about the first time someone at such a memorial gathering was giving a speech, of course, that was Boris Tadic. For the first time in history, someone put on a wreath before representatives of the First Kragueva High School, whose students were shot in the woods. Now the honor is given to Boris Tadic. Then they set up two pensioners, maybe not pensioners, members of the DS, sat with them on a bench in a walking zone in Kragujevac, the cameras were filming him chatting with them, and then a man came by who wasn't set up and said, "Wait, Mr. Tadic, I have something to ask you," and he, believe it or not, said, "Hey, guys, come on, I've got to go have coffee."
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5220	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5221	I'm finishing up and I'm sorry. So much for the relationship between the president of the state, the state authorities, about what is Serbia's interest, and that is Serbia within the limits provided for by this constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5222	Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 68 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. The word is Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5223	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in an amendment tabled by MP Sreto Peric, a graduate lawyer, who looked at this member from his point of view, suggested that, on behalf of the SRS, in Article 68, the words "one year", were replaced by the words "six months". It is sufficient time for the minister to pass sublegal regulations on the basis of which certain provisions of this law will apply. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the border, only two or three things I'd like to explain. Namely, in Article 8. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed and the territory and its borders are regulated. The territory of the Republic of Serbia, in paragraph 1, is normalised to be unique and indivisible. In Section 2: "The border of the Republic of Serbia is non-injurious, and changes according to the procedure foreseen for the change of the Constitution." Look how right we are. The SRS MPs point out, justifiably, that what is predicted in relation to the border and the conclusion of international contracts and the authority of the foreign minister that he, with some other authorities, but not saying which one can prepare a change of borders, in accordance with some international contracts, cannot be. The constitution is a dam. The constitution is the Constitution. All parties in this House voted for this constitution. When it's said that the border of territory is non-injurious and changes according to the procedure foreseen for the change of the Constitution, what about Article 50 now, what about the border? As far as the border is concerned, I remain on my claim. You can also see for yourself on the basis of other interpretations of the expert public. Lawyership, law professors, longtime lawyers can give their opinion and interpret this provision. In my opinion, the border is unchangeable, and the second position – the border is changing as the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is changed, is what is missing and what has to be corrected in this bill, because in this case the state would be secured from possible abuses, whether someone can commit an abuse of imagination or not, even in court practice, it is foreseen that even out of negligentness can do it. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Krstin was just talking about renting agricultural land. If you'll excuse me, I would just like to point out and ask for an answer from the Minister of Agriculture, at the time he was Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic. He signed a contract on the lease of agricultural land in state property on 10.12.2007. It's about state land in the Catastrian municipality of Omoljica. With this contract, the Republic of Serbia, therefore, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, concluded a contract with the PD "Omojica" a.d., represented by Nikolaj Dimitrov. According to me, it is a citizen of Bulgarian nationality. Mr. Minister, there's a serious crime here, Mr. Kristin pointed out. Earth Mafia, serious. Hundreds of thousands of hectares are leased, no one controls whether contractual obligations are respected. This contractor leased 731 hectares of agricultural land with this contract. According to my knowledge, he doesn't pay the rent, as foreseen by the contract. I'm looking for an explanation because I'm being asked by the citizens of Omoliica. Okay, this man, a stranger, we don't know who he is, or what he is, comes with a purse and a bow, enters the agricultural land, gives him 731 acres of land, he doesn't pay it neatly, the contract was signed by Minister Milosavljevic, and what is it now? Why could this plot, or these thirty parcels, not be given to individual agricultural producers from Omolitica, who would pay the rent neatly? This millions do not pay and, to make evil greater, in Article 3, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the land of Article 1 of this Treaty is leased for a period of three years. Item 2 – the land of Article 1 of this Treaty shall be freed by the tenant after the crop has been removed, and no later than, there is nothing. There's no deadline when he's obliged to hand over this property to the state to return it. So, about these thieves who took the land under these conditions, making it easier, the state doesn't care. Billions and billions of dinars are at stake here. I ask that checks be carried out under this contract and to determine whether the tenant respects the provisions of the contract or not. Secondly, where Mr. Krstin just cited an example in the case of Zrenjanin, that there are no signatories on the right hand side as a tenant, I'm surprised that the contract can remain legal. That contract is nothing. Why aren't the attorneys involved, the prosecutors? I ask the police to take matters into their own hands, because until they enter and check certain things in certain institutions, when it comes to suspected crime and corruption, there is no movement or step. All I believe is that as soon as the police get in and start conducting investigations against them, whether they're carrying out contracts or not. I'd like to mention one more thing. When it came to an amendment relating to the border belt, when citizens are limited to the right to sow certain agricultural cultures, one question arises. This law does not comply with the Constitution and does not comply with the Law on Liabilities, in a provision that speaks of compensation for damages, or with the Law on property and legal relations. That is strange, especially, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because of you Democrats, because you are seeking to comply with the European Union's standards and to seek to implement legislation in this way. Yeah, but how is it possible, when a man had an orchard by the border today? What's this man gonna do tomorrow? I don't think that's what the Police Minister Dacic will do, but someone would do it; I think Minister Dacic will think about it and assess whether to cut the orchard that's at the border. No, it's not good. There's a flaw here. This law could, however, be corrected, that some amendments of MPs were accepted in the Republic Parliament. The MPs of the SRS responded well-intentionedly, in a desire, a bona fide, to correct the text, so that no one would suffer harm, in good intentions and in good faith, with a clear conscience, that in some way we could trust both the state and the state authorities. So this is problematic. It's said - some cultures can. What's that? Can we have sugar tails, or corn, or potatoes, or strawberries? What are we gonna do if the border line goes through the woods? Please, a border line passes through the forest and now someone, for some reason security, says – well, now we have to cut the forest, and those from the European Union, Green, say – don't touch any leaves, don't cut any branches. And those of the Ministry of Environmental Protection also say -- don't cut down the woods, because, anyway, Serbia is polluted with everything and everything. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, this law could have suffered certain repairs and changes. Gentlemen of the DS, you have an obligation to return the mandates to the SRS. Don't cooperate in that dishonest business, unauthorized, because 20 SRS mandates have been kidnapped, you know that well. If it had been done to you, in principle, the SRS would never have kept quiet, nor would they have cooperated with those who did not go to the elections, they do not have a political party that is registered, and they have MPs. Where's that? What parliament does he have it in? Let's in parallel right to see which political party it is. Can you do that in Germany? He can't. Can you do that in England? He can't. Can that happen in France, Belgium, the Netherlands, America? He can't. He can't go to Russia, Belarus. We're the only one who can. People, if you think this assembly works and works authoritatively, relations must be arranged in the Assembly, in parliamentary clubs, and electoral lists of political parties must be respected. The non-existent political parties have nothing to look for in this House. MPs who present themselves like this can be falsely represented, in no way are they MPs. They admitted there were resignations. When there were resignations, whose intention was it to keep these resignations from being delivered to the SRS? What are the intentions? The intention is for someone to benefit from it, and we are against corruption, against such benefits. That's immoral. It is not moral to take away one political party, i.e. Dr. Vojislav Seselj's SRS, 20 mandates, to be picked up in one corner, to go there to storm, and we will present ourselves today as a great political force. He says – we are the second or, even, the first political party in Serbia, a force. Come on, please, gentlemen of the DS. Well, you'll be hanging out with them soon if you don't take the appropriate measures. This is a hoax and a hoax. Secondly, today there were words here about the media. When it comes to media, why isn't the media in control? Who let the media? Do they do it for free? Let's see those contracts. Let's see who paid for the contracts, who paid for the transfers? From where? Please, there must be order in Parliament, every political party must be respected. Voters, an electoral body that voted proportionally, must be respected, both for which political party. You know that the SRS – Dr Vojislav Seselj, not someone else, has reached 78 seats in the previous republican elections. None of the individuals went on their own on the list, nor introduced themselves to the citizens individually, and that the citizens voted for it. It's deception, it's lies, it's fraud, it's something that our Parliament can't liven up. Let's clean up what is not for us and for Parliament. We must establish a parliamentary life in our Parliament. Gentlemen Democrats, if you do not take appropriate measures, you are complicit in this ugly, bad job for the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5224	Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? Mr. Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5225	Ladies and gentlemen, you have to admit that I've been doing a hundred times these past few days, along with you. In any case, I'm very glad we took part in the debate that had a series of constructive proposals regarding this law. Not all amendments that have been proposed can be accepted, but I would like to point out that our country applied the so-called system a few years ago. an integrated border management strategy, based on an integrated border management strategy, and that there was a demilitarisation of the state border, which means a change in the earlier system, which was about to say that the border line, or the state border, was controlled by the police and provided by the military. The rule, at least in Europe, is now changing in Hungary, because of the entry into the European Union, that there is a demilitarisation of the state border, that the state border control business, or the protection of the state border, is being done by the police authorities, or the MUP, so that there is no exception, simply, in this era. What's wrong with Serbia? Serbia, of course, lacks more quality border crossings, is missing what we said last time, and that is a whole series of others, perhaps, crossings, which will not serve as international crossings, but as a small border. You have a lot of citizens living in that territory, 30 to 50 km. from the state border, and we are now trying to make an agreement with the countries in the environment so that it can cross with a ID card, or at least without visas, only with passports. This specifically applies to Romania and Bulgaria, and I think we can have a significant step there. We will try to make a series of such crossings in the next period, to open new crossing points at the border with Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria. I would also like to remind you that unfortunately, our state border has not always been an international border. One large part of our border was once the administrative border, i.e. the administrative crossing, which separated the former republics of the Yugoslav Federation. I would also like to remind all the MPs, you certainly know that, but I would like to point out once again, because of the public, that there are no border police at the administrative crossings towards KIM. These aren't border crossings for us. And there are weaknesses, because we don't admit it. We need to train ourselves to prevent such administrative crossings of smuggling, various abuses, so that because of such a political decision, it would not be understood in people that we have reconciled to the fact that KIM is no longer an integral part of our country. We continue to do so, but, of course, some of the jobs that border police are doing must be done at these administrative crossings, especially when it comes to people entering the territory of Serbia from the KIM territory, and they have already entered and have been out of control of our border authorities. As you know, we have decided that all those travelling with foreign passports, and they have sealed stamps of the Republic of Kosovo, we are hitting our seal, the seal of the Republic of Serbia. The aim of this law is to create a border that is open to free flow of goods and people and to create a border that will be closed to all people of criminal activity and to all other illicit activities. Of course, I have to point out this time, it's not only that reason, but this law fills another step that leads us to the fact that the MUP has practically fulfilled all the obligations it has on the basis of the agreement that the previous government has reached with the European Union on this so-called. The map of the road to the European Union. Simply, there are no more legal projects from this ministry that are necessary for our arrival on the White Schengen list. When it will happen, will it happen, depends also on the speed of work on the adoption of laws and, of course, on the application of laws and new documents, new passports. Of course, this again depends on other ministries, of the Justice Ministry, above all, and some other laws concerning the prevention of money laundering and other aspects of financial organised crime, but all in all, I think that the adoption of these laws and the successful completion of this session is a significant step forward, towards something that is not a dictatorship on the part of the country and the citizens of Serbia, which is that our state is on the white Schengen list, that citizens can freely travel across Europe without Schengen visas. Indeed, I am taking this opportunity to call on all political parties, given this citizens' interest, to support this law. As far as the damages are concerned, I'm only asking you to separate those two things when it comes to the border line itself. The compensation for damages, under the Constitution, implies illegal or irregular work by the state authorities, therefore, damage caused by such work by the state authorities. Since this isn't about that, there's nothing illegal about it. If you're causing any damage, it means you're guilty. This is about something else, this is another member of the Constitution regulated, which is the right to property, that property rights can be taken away, restricted, or can be restricted by the way of use, only in the public interest established under the law, with a fee that cannot be lower than the market. One is the question of compensation for damages, and the other is a matter of just compensation for these things that are necessary when it comes to the state border. No one here will be damaged. Of course you understand one more thing – it is not about any desire for the minister to sign any sublegal acts, but simply by the laws we have previously passed, which have been passed in the last session of Parliament, under the State Administration Act, it is defined that the minister is making regulations and not the ministry, so neither can the Secretary of State, the Minister must. Personally, I don't mind changing that, but as long as this law is in force, that's how it has to be written. I thank you all for your constructive discussion. I hope our ministry has a few more legal projects waiting for us in the coming period. One question is the extension of the period for the validity of our old passports, but I would like to point out that as of November 1st, old passports will not be issued, but only new passports, new forms. However, given that time is needed as long as it will be valid, we will propose to extend the period for validity by the end of next year. It must also be adopted in parliament, because if it does not change, the old passports will only be valid until December 31st this year. We are also looking for the possibility of simplifying the procedure for issuing passports and ID cards as much as possible and to see that, through amendments to the law, this procedure is as simple as possible, and you can expect a bill on road safety as possible. I thank you for this work and for the attention you've been following with what we suggested. I thank you for all the suggestions and I urge you to, whether or not you have been accepted by the amendments, because of citizens whose interest is the adoption of these laws, they are not of a political nature, support the laws of the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-22-0.u5226	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to thank you for your participation in this session, to thank Mr. Ivica Dacic, Minister of the Interior, Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister and his associates on your behalf. I consider that there have indeed been a lot of constructive proposals and that everything that is in line with the assessment that it is in the interests of citizens and in accordance with the Constitution will be respected. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We'll continue work tomorrow at ten o'clock. Thank you.
