ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-15-0.u2221	(The session began with an anthem "The God of Justice") Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Third Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. A DECLARATION OF THE INTERNATIONAL DAY OF Democracy — 15 / 15 SEPTEMBRA I invite you to attend the Third Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, next to the MPs, also: David Lens Klark, resident coordinator of the United Nations; Boris Tadic, President of the Republic; Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister; Prime Minister and Secretary General; Academy member Nikola Hajdin, President of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts; then, representatives of the religious communities: Atanasia Rakita, Episcopo Hvostanski; Momir Lečić, protodjacon; priest Jurij 9jek; Belgrade rabbi Isak Asiel; efendija Muhamed Jusufspahić; Vida Petrović-Škero, President of the Supreme Court of Serbia; Sasa Janković, Civilian Protector; Rodoljubović Šabić, Commissioner for Information of Publicity; General of the Republic of Belgrade; General of BiH-Popović, Minister of BiH, Zalna Milić. Allow me to welcome the guests present on your behalf and on your behalf. Let us remind ourselves that in September 1997, the IPU, the World Organisation of Parliaments, adopted the Universal Declaration of Democracy. [[Applause]] The United Nations General Assembly, the next IPU initiative, made a decision last year declaring 15 September the International Day of Democracy. Throughout history, democracy has either flourished or been stalled, even, in an attempt to be eliminated, but almost every society in the world has appeared stronger, safer, more content and more stable. The high goal of democracy is to preserve and promote dignity and fundamental rights of personality, to achieve social justice, promote the country's economic and social development, strengthen cohesion and thus create adequate conditions for the preservation of international peace. Democracy, development and human rights are therefore interdependent. In democracy, human rights are promoted and protected in a way that can affect the formulation of laws and policies, through free expression, free association and the right to elect representatives in free and fair elections. Democracy is not only an ideal that needs to be pursued, but also a form of government to be applied, in accordance with the modes that reflect the diversity of experiences and cultural specialities, and all in accordance with internationally recognised principles, norms and standards. Therefore, democracy's progress depends on various political, social, economic and cultural factors. In one word, there is no universal recipe for the form of democracy. Parliaments are the central institutions of democracy. They should allow voters to assess members of parliament for what they are doing. The inseparable democratic function of parliament, but also its obligation, is to be effective, which means it must be well organised to provide services for the needs of its citizens. In democracy, where all citizens are respected and equal, women play an equally important role as men do. Women make up more than half of the world's population. Society is much more just, and democracy strengthens when a woman participates in all aspects of political life. Serbia as a democratic state fully respects all international instruments that constitute the essence of international law and the principle of the UN Charter. In this process, it particularly advocates the strict application of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted in December 1948, as well as the International Agreement on Civil, Political, Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, adopted in December 1966. I pay particular attention to the principles of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Race Discrimination, as well as the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. For parliamentary democracy, the declaration of criteria for free and fair elections, adopted in March 1994, is of special importance. Serbia has shown and proved that the principles of this declaration are an inseparable part of the election process. It is a special task of all parliaments that, in accordance with the principles of the UN Charter, they push for respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of all states and for the policy of force to be eliminated in relations between states. Therefore, we expect our initiative to be adopted in the UN General Assembly, where we are asking for a resolution that would require an opinion from the International Court of Justice on the illegal, unilateral and illegal declaration of independence of the Serbian province of Kosovo and Metohija. The international court of justice, which is also set up to defend the principles of the Charter and international law, should not disobey the request. I think we can rightly expect that the International Court of Justice will also, in its opinion, support the universal democratic principle of territorial integrity and sovereignty of states, and thus the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Serbia within its internationally recognised borders. Serbia's Parliament is promoting democracy with its representativeism, reflecting the social and political diversity of the population, ensuring equal rights and protecting all MPs, in a way that we can freely and creatively realise our mandates and make our work available to the public. Over the millenniums, years, days, the face of democracy has changed, making a man more free, stronger and ready to successfully travel from biology to culture. On the International Day of Democracy, let us join those who claim that democracy, particularly parliamentary, is never enough. Let me speak to the President of the Republic, Mr. Boris Tadic, and ask him to take his word. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-15-0.u2223	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, MPs, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, members of the Government, distinguished guests, your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, the United Nations, all countries of the World Organisation, celebrate democracy in a solemn manner today. This event tells us that democracy has become a planetary value, that it is a political form of government that is standard and measure for all orderly, free societies. The event also testifies that the world is becoming unique, at least in accepting democracy as a political and market economy as an economic order. These are today's ruling ideas of time. After the terrible experiences of the 20th century, the collapse of freedom and bloody wars, today peace, freedom and equality of peoples and peoples radiate with the strength of the highest accepted values. Of course, in practice, in real life, it is often disrupted, but always at risk of condemning the greatest part of the world. The threat of these values is a moral and political violation that civilization condemns. The majority of people in the world today see democracy as political freedom and the right to speak, criticise and to join, as political equality, the free choice of their representatives, equal chances, participation in decision-making, the absence of discrimination, tolerance and expansion of freedom to all marginalised and minority groups. Serbia was released two centuries ago, by its democratic people's revolution; it threw out feudal power and agreed to democracy. On this long path of democracy, she had to overcome many enemies, domestic and foreign, who were choking her, often in blood, who were undermining her or playing her, and democracy always appeared again as an idea and as a movement, reminding that our fate was, as well as the fate of the world. Ladies and gentlemen, today Serbia is a free democratic state, with institutions, laws and political practices that are standardised for the modern democratic world. The United Nations, the Council of Europe and other international organisations have adopted rules of democratic behaviour, which we too adhere to. Unfortunately, that, too, is what I must mention here, there are our countrymen, citizens, in Kosovo and Metohija, who are not protected by these rules and which we always have to worry about. Democracy is not a dogmatized, completed form of political life, it is a permanent, living process, in which new people live and always looking for a better and more worthy world. We are witnessing the spread of freedom to up until now marginalised groups, respecting special needs and diversity. High tolerance and growing multiculturalism are giving democracy power. Serbia, as a state of citizens of different nationalities and cultural identities, should move this wealth into growing tolerance and democracy. In the end, I want us to remember that democracy has opponents, that it has often been annulled. In history, we know that democratic steps have broken down and turned into their opposite. The most frequently mentioned dangers to democracy are populism, demagogy, this dangerous mass seduction, and government corruption by increasing corruption. It is not easy to deal with marginally destructive anti-democracy groups, but losing confidence in the democratic order, in the rule of law and the sense of justice, which is always the product of corruption, is perhaps a more dangerous opponent to democracy. Democracy must also have its great and selfless friends, who will not only celebrate it but also courageously defend it when any corrosion breaks out on its structure. Our democracy is young and fragile and has to reach more and more friends and defenders. The democratic government must use the people's trust to develop a democratic spirit, strengthen democratic institutions, involve more and more citizens in social reform, create an environment for economic development, improve living standards and help the most vulnerable. Ladies and gentlemen, no democratic authority must forget that citizens are the bearers of sovereignty, therefore, the highest authority, and yet another historical experience and lesson left to us by the old thinkers. There is no good state without good citizens, and good citizens can only create good states. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-15-0.u2224	I thank Mr. President Boris Tadic. I ask Mr. David Lance Clark, resident of the United Nations coordinator, to take his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-15-0.u2225	Mr. President of the Republic, Madam President of Parliament, your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honor to be with you here today, as president of the United Nations system in Serbia, to celebrate the International Day of Democracy. This special day has been declared by the General Assembly of the United Nations in order to promote the further development of democracy around the world. It also marks the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Democracy by the Interparliamentary Union in 1997. Let me begin my address today by congratulating Serbia on the progress it has made in democratisation over the past years. It is important to make progress through the elections, the numerous elections Serbia has made in the past, whose results and implementation have indeed been impressive. In addition, Serbia has made significant progress in the areas of key human rights, such as the establishment of the State Ombudsman's Office and the adoption of numerous laws relating to people with disabilities. Also, it has been possible to access information of public importance and basic efforts have been made to start round tables, discussions on 'round tables' within parliamentary committees. Many important steps have been taken and they have created a clear basis for future development of activities. If we look at the role of the United Nations in terms of democracy, I would like to conclude that there is a complex relationship between the United Nations and democracy. For example, there is no mention of democracy in the Charter of the United Nations. However, it is also true that the United Nations in practice is increasingly taking on a large and significant role in promoting democracy. For example, at the United Nations Millennium Summit in 2000, world leaders united in promoting democracy, strengthening the rule of law, as well as respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms, including the right to development. Democratic governments are one of the basic pillars of the work of the United Nations, i.e. the United Nations Development Programme, together with a hundred representatives and institutions, provide support to electoral systems around the world. It's just one of the concrete examples. Ladies and gentlemen, why is democracy so important in today's world? In line with the words of the Secretary General of the United Nations, experience teaches us, day by day, that democracy is essential to achieving our three basic objectives, that is peace, human rights and development. Stubborn democracies don't fight each other. Human rights and the rule of law are best protected in democratic societies, and development will take place much better if people have the right to vote in the leadership of their countries. Let me say a few words about part two of the Secretary-General's comments, it's a link between democracy and human rights. Often democracy is seen only as something focused on free and fair elections. This limited view of democracy has made the old tyranny of power and wealth replace the new tyranny, with the tyranny of the rule of the majority. Practical experience has clearly shown that democracy is based on its democratic values, that it is based on respect for the fundamental human rights of individuals and groups and their inclusion in society, whether they are members of a minority or a majority. In Serbia, although human rights are relevant to many groups, two groups stand out, which are Roma and people with disabilities. They are literally at the bottom of every economic and socio-political scale. Although there are a number of problems facing these two groups, one stands out specifically, which is education. Less than half of children with disabilities and Roma children do not finish primary education. It condemns these children to the future in poverty and release. Serbia, however, takes over the chairmanship of the Decade of Roma and has made education one of its priorities during the presidency. The new leadership of the Ministry of Education will make education a priority. Let us hope that in the coming years great progress will be made in bringing education to our children, for their better future. Ladies and gentlemen gathered here today, in a parliamentary house, let me take this opportunity and make a few comments about the work of the National Assembly and its key role for democracy in Serbia. It is often said that you can have a parliament that does not guarantee democracy, but you cannot have democracy without parliament. In this context, I had the pleasure, a few days ago, to meet with Madam President of Parliament and its employees and to consider what are the basic advantages of Parliament's work, what are the capacities and its role. An agreement has been reached to discuss the new law on the Assembly and the new Rules of Procedure. It will also help to hold committee meetings outside Belgrade, which will allow for strengthening citizens' access to parliament itself. There is also a great need to strengthen the capacity of parliamentary committees to better consider positive and negative sides of the bill and to include the necessary changes. In addition, Parliament's research centre needs to be developed. Finally, in the spirit of democracy, Parliament could improve its mechanisms for publishing information of public importance. These measures are crucial to strengthening the capacity of transparency, Parliament's responsibility, so that it fully achieves its role within Serbian democracy. Let me finish by mentioning the fundamental truth of democracy. Democracy is the result of strong, active and loud civil society. It means responsible citizenship, which makes democracy work. We need to make sure that the doors of the administration are open to strong civil society, as a crucial confirmation of democracy. Democracy, when observed, is not fast. Democracy looks more like a marathon race and less like a sprint. In each country, building democracy is a long-term struggle, which must never stop, and that struggle must be fought continuously by individuals, communities and entire nations. In that fight, the United Nations stands together, shoulder to shoulder, with the government and the people of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-15-0.u2226	I thank Mr. David Lance Clarke. I ask Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister, to take his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-15-0.u2227	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, MPs, President of the Republic, members of the Government, distinguished guests, your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, today Serbia, with the whole world, marks the International Day of Democracy. In its history, Serbia has always had a tendency to develop democratically, but has not always chosen the best and the right path. Global historical circumstances have sometimes contributed to this, but it has always been influenced by the resourcefulness of the ruling elite. Now conditions have been created for Serbia to stop wandering through the past, to deal with myths, legends and false dilemmas. It is time for Serbia, taught by historical experiences, to start building a modern state, which has clear goals and ways to reach them. We want Serbia to become a synonym for the word democracy. The Serbian government has been formed to agree on the definition of the European future, the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija, strengthening the economy, strengthening social responsibility, fighting crime and corruption and respect for international law. These clear principles are the real basis for the faster development of democratic Serbia. We have numerous advantages, from geostrategic position to hardworking and educated people who are ready to create an economic leader in the region from Serbia. That's why courage and wisdom are needed. We have great trials and great tasks ahead of us. The greatest task is to preserve territorial integrity and sovereignty. Our fight for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija is a challenge facing almost every generation in Serbia. We have chosen the path of peace, negotiations and diplomatic and legal struggles and that is proof of Serbia's democracy. The Serbian government is seeking to make our country a true factor of stability in this part of Europe. We want to respect international law in these places, and we will fight for our rights in the United Nations. We expect the United Nations General Assembly and the International Court of Justice to give the right assessment of Kosovo's illegal declaration of independence. Our goal is to move the problem of Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence from the policy area into the area of law, which would be a significant achievement of the government. The second direction towards preserving Kosovo and Metohija for the Serbian government is to create preconditions for the prosperous lives of citizens living in this southern province. That is why Serbia is investing in Kosovo and Metohija's economic development. To preserve Kosovo and Metohija, we need to economically strengthen Serbia. The only way to do that is to be open to the flow of goods and capital, both east and west. Serbia's European future has no alternative. The agreement with the European Union on stabilisation and accession is the most serious step Serbia has taken in this direction. We are a country located at the intersection of European roads, and we must take advantage of that. In the near future, Serbia will be a country of modern roads, railways, pipelines, oil pipelines. The gas-naphtha agreement with the Russian Federation is in the deepest interest of creating energy stability in our country and speeding up economic development. We believe that with the Russian Federation we should further promote other trade relations. Because of all of this, we need to make our own state sooner, create effective institutions, adopt and, more importantly, enforce laws. It is also up to us to fulfil all our obligations to international and domestic law as soon as possible. There's no reason to stop the development of our own country. Democracy implies constant change, affirmation of diversity and respect for equality. In a small country like Serbia, respect for these principles is essential. There have been mistakes in the past. This generation will no longer make mistakes, but will speedily lead the country towards a democratic and economically strong state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-15-0.u2228	I thank Mr. Mirk Cvetkovic. I conclude the Third Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. I invite you to attend the cocktail in the central hall of the House of the National Assembly.
