ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u3982	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Minister, I have proposed with my amendment that the provisions of this law apply not to the acts listed in Article 2, where you now have works in the field of organised crime, the display of pornographic material, the work against the economy, the unauthorized production and the placing on the market of intoxicating drugs, acts against public order and peace, against humanity, etc. My idea is to confiscate property that was acquired by any crime, because the essence of this law is to take away property, and it doesn't matter which part of it was obtained. So, the attempt to list leads us to some kind of bidding why this work can and why it can't. Who's going to explain to me why property is being taken away and what kind of property is being acquired by public order and peace? There's no argument. An explanation of why the government does not accept this amendment is completely flat-rate. It is said that the government does not accept the amendment for the reason that it considers that a special procedure for the confiscation of property obtained by criminal acts, which is prescribed by the bill, aims primarily at taking away the property of persons who are perpetrators of the criminal offence of organised crime, corruption and against economy. There is no public order and peace here. Please, Madam Minister, pay attention. And then it goes on to say, "... Since criminal law and the Code of Criminal Procedure apply to the confiscation of property for those crimes. "Well, for all crimes, and those mentioned in Article 2, it is normal to apply the provisions of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. Now, on the case, I'm going to explain to you how slander can result in enormous property gains. May I have your attention, please? One of the most important members of the government, in agreement with a criminal English agency and with a worldwide company, was tasked with discrediting late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. Everybody knows that, but they're acting crazy. Zoran Djindjic was reportedly one of the members of the tobacco mafia. Thanks to this man's campaign, today one of the most prominent members of the government, Zoran Djindjic was placed on a pillar of shame, and this government member has achieved an enormous property benefit. You look at him here and he says, "My moms, I don't have anything, I don't have a complete eschew," there's no dog to bite him for. Well, nobody's crazy about keeping property here. There's going to be a debate about this in particular. All those who do it a little more modernly have actions, so actions on the bearer, so the problem of this law will be just property abroad, savings stakes, where foreign banks guarantee the secrecy of roles, actions where you can't see who owns it, bring in action and collect millions. Therefore, the essence of my amendment is not to bid any criminal acts on property benefit, so it will be the subject of confiscation, because the essence of the law is not a criminal offence, but what is acquired by a criminal act. From various crimes, and many are not listed in this bill, one can gain enormous property benefits, make huge assets, and it should be the subject of confiscation, regardless of what crime is called and which group of crimes belongs to. If you insist, we can explain this much more in detail, which I've been trying so politely to say right now. They don't keep people property here. They have a modest apartment here, but that's why in some exotic destinations, like the Talahasi in Florida, there are beautiful villas that have been acquired by criminal acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u3983	The word has a People's MP, Momir Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u3984	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that Mr Vladan Batic's amendment should be accepted because he solves problems that are not defined by Article 2. The amendment reads: "The provisions of this law apply to all criminal acts if the property benefit obtained by criminal acts, i.e. the value of the crime case, exceeds the amount of 1.500,000 dinars. "Maybe even a lower figure should be, because the things I want to talk about, the crimes I want to talk about, the value I want to talk about, and the perpetrators I want to talk about deserve to be found in Article 2, to be found in Article 2 of this law. However, under paragraphs 1 and 2 their work can be qualified as organised crime or as a demonstration of pornographic material, because what they have done is political pornography, exposed to extreme proportions. What exactly is this about? A group of citizens of criminal tendencies dared to take away from a political organisation a property that is measured by a far greater figure than the one Mr. Vladan Batic mentioned here. It's 20 parliamentary mandates, 20 times 15,000 votes, it's about belongings, receipts and responsibilities that these mandates bear in themselves, it's about the incredible robbery of the party they were in until yesterday, it's about the crime of unsuspecting proportions. If the overall criminal activity of one of the ministers, who did not want to be mentioned by Mr Vladan Batic, I will not mention my name to him, but you and the citizens of Serbia to whom this applies, may well exceed the amount of damage the group has done. If criminal activity were taken only from this term of office of the appointed minister, I think the value of the kidnapped, robbed property of the Serbian Radical Party far exceeds that amount. That is why I believe that the amendment by Vladan Batic should be accepted, because this amendment completes the law and closes one hole, so that criminals and small mice can no longer get through it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u3985	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u3986	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this is the second day that I have to agree with what Mr Batic has proposed, probably taught by the experience he had as minister and the fact that he should have taken care of all these acts that this law today. I think you're right, Mr. Batic, because on these examples you've just made clear and told Mrs. Minister and the public that if we don't make that lower limit that you're proposing, which is an amount of 1.500,000; which is what my colleague Markovic says, it could have been lower, because in our categorization and understanding of the value of ordinary people... I'm only now, but a man learns while he's alive, after 17 years of knowing some people, finds out he's nothing to them, so a few million dinars here, there, and then expensive cars, and then debauchery life, obscenity behavior, and them and family members. But, well, it's something that those who do it, first of all, Nikolic and his family and the small number of people he gives a spoon to, he's going to hit himself on the head. This is really about serious stuff and what citizens are looking for. If corruption has taken so much power, if it is one of the works proposed to take away illegally acquired property, if it is present in our society, according to research done several years ago by these people from the Centre for Liberal Democratic Studies, 68%, which in the bodies of local self-government, the state authorities, is now certainly more, because every year it is increasingly taking hold, then, as you suggest, we have to define ourselves according to the actual amount and the fact that someone has put that money in his pocket, that he has kidnapped some part of the crime, which certainly cannot be a disturbance of public order and peace. When that happens, and we have these recent events -- two or three pairs of shoes and I don't know how many perfumes, so everything that happened after the demonstrations when it was your five-octobaric coup, can't reach this amount of 1.500,000 dinars. But all other frauds and all other acts can, especially those acts, I assume that you were referring to the economics, financial crime and everything that you have in the light of the non-acceptation of the bill's amendment, i.e. the government replied that it would be treated by other laws. Then why did they list these acts for us: and the disturbance of public order and peace, for example, and the acts against humanity and other goods protected by international law? What does that mean? This is one general provision prescribed by other laws, by the Criminal Code. Therefore, if you want to have one law that will clearly categorize that it is money, kidnapping, value, whether it is drug, property or anything else, I believe that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia must be defined in the way you have suggested, otherwise, in the process of proving one of the numbered crimes, as the promoter has given us, to determine this amount and, as this financial situation has begun, there will be a devaluation of what someone has taken at a certain point at a nominal amount of 1.500,000; that in a year, or in a few months, it will no longer be, in thousands of euros, the same. When we file criminal charges, as we did the day before yesterday against Nikolic because he unauthorizedly took out a loan on behalf of the SRS, and now we need to prove the competent state authorities and that a man is being prosecuted, because a criminal charges for a criminal offence were established, then we need to see where they are pumped and how they were washed away. Because 600,000 euros in the campaign have been spent in such a way, through accounts and through "combinations" (as would be said by a criminal jargon) with certain people, companies or agencies. Let the competent authorities deal with it. Or, by the way, now parked, cars. Because it's not enough that he's got his own fleet, it's got to be, and that's how he presents himself on behalf of the party... Let them also deal with that car that, Mr. Vukovicu, is parked in front of the SRS, which costs at least, as you said, 50,000 euros, which is now a member of the disfellowshipped, and once-in-a-lifetimely powerful, deputy president wanted to ride both in Belgrade and everywhere. So, Mr. Batic, you see how much your amounts are higher. You're a humble man, and you're from 1.500,000. You say it's a big robbery. That can't be compared to the SRS robbery. I fully advocate your approach and this amendment. We will support him because we believe that this is the only way to do it, starting with that amount in monetary terms, the graduation of these numerous crimes, and let's not, of course, as you and I have just explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u3987	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Zlata Djeric submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u3988	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence. The amendment reads in Article 2(1) after point 7) a new point is added: "8) The frauds in the traffic of immovable property. "We welcome the adoption of this law. This law has been passed in many European countries, it has been brought to the United States and is applied everywhere. However, he will probably have to have a serious remont in our first days of application, but it's good to have one, so we'll have something to remount. First of all, its application will be problematic because not all crimes, such as this particular crime, are not covered, so the acquisition of property by fraud in the traffic of immovable property. In fact, one huge group of citizens is monitoring the meeting precisely to see what will happen to people who have been reselling multiple immovable property for years; selling non-existent apartments, mixers with assets that remained in the former republics of the SRJ. So, they expect these people to be adequately punished, to be taken away from their property, because so far, in a magical way, thanks to justice as it is, so imperfect as it is, they have managed to avoid any serious sanctions. Those who deal with crime do not deal with laws or follow laws, but deal with looking for holes in the law. If we don't include this huge group of frauds in the law, then not only will we leave a hole in the law that will be infinitely abused, as so far, but there will be a crater through which they and all the property they have acquired from the criminal activities. Of course, desperate citizens, whose trials last for a minimum of five and more years, lost both money and health and property during that time. We cannot let these citizens start thinking about taking the law into their own hands. Because the most desperate are those who run out of roof over their heads, and when they stay like this, then one desperate act, as it happened this summer with the use of snipers, can really be done as a way out. So the law must predict this group of people. I am sorry that there was no hearing in the Justice Department to accept this amendment, although he came across approval and I expect the ruling majority to have enough hearing to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u3989	The word is from Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u3990	Madam Chairman, the amendment of my colleague Zlata Djeric is excellent because in a concrete way she is trying to protect these people who have been deceived in the traffic of immovableity, with what she is, and that could have been the idea of all of us, but above all, the promoter, in addition to this, should have put a provision or a special point – in the transport and construction of immovableity. Because today, where is the biggest acquisition of illegal capital and looting of citizens rather than the construction mob, right? We are all witnessing in our midst that the largest number of Serbian citizens has been deceived in the traffic of immovableity, but also in construction. Here, if you were watching the RTS log last night, you could see how in this chaos that is happening on the global stock market and in our market, citizens who, say, two months ago had the opportunity to compete with the state housing corporation or did it on their own, based on the combined incomes of family members; they are now mass... I know specific cases of my acquaintances and friends, and I daren't take such a step, to enter something called a housing loan, even though our parliamentary salaries are much higher than our citizens' receipts. It's a great danger because of the fact that from the moment you made a preliminary contract to buy that property, such as the case of a lady who made a statement last night for RTS, that property was collected for at least 10%. Therefore, it is also a form of fraud, and especially what happened in Belgrade in two settlements, which our public was familiar with during the summer – people sold their properties and paid for the advance construction of apartments in the phantom company, which did not build five, six or ten thousand square meters of residential space for our citizens. Therefore, there is the greatest danger, and what Djeric said meant by Serbian states west of Drina and Danube, primarily Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska. I want to apostrophe here and the problem of our southern provinces of Kosovo and Metohija, that and colleague Kragovic, our MP from Kosovo Mitrovica, knows very well. The biggest frauds are through individual agencies that traffic real estate for Serbs who have lost their property, or who have decided to sell some of them, and the housing unit or the country they own is in one of the occupied areas of Kosovo and Metohija. You've often had a chance to see that in our daily and weekly press, various agencies are advertised; it's usually some Americans that appear here, so they have, like, a UNMIK permit to deal with it. It happens very often that people who decide to sell property in such a way, through these phantom agencies, will be deceived into the very traffic of immobility. Therefore, Madam Minister, you had to take care of this and, to return to that amendment by colleagues Batic, that the most abuses occur in the traffic of immobilities and there is the greatest possibility of gaining enormous wealth. Only from a commission for one real estate will we get to this initial amount of colleagues Batić - 1.500,000 dinars, this is your percentage for some illegal business in the area of real estate traffic, and not to mention building real estate, there are already robberies of citizens huge. Every day we face such examples, and the citizens have no one to protect because no general action against the construction mafia has yet to be launched. If you would run it, you must first arrest Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u3991	The word has a representative of the promoter, Justice Minister Snezana Malovic, and after that, MP Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u3992	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as I said in my interpretation of the law, when the bill was drawn up, we primarily had in mind the effectiveness of fighting organised crime and corruption. Why aren't all the crimes covered? This does not mean that the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence will be treated only by this law. As I said, this already seems and is made possible by the normative ambience that is depicted in the Criminal Procedure Act and the Criminal Law. As for amendments by MP Vladan Batic, I agree that property can come out of any crime, but, as I have already pointed out, it will then be possible to apply the provisions of the Law on Criminal Procedure and Criminal Law. After all, this criminal-exclusion institute is not unknown. As you know, monitoring phone and other types of conversations in the Criminal Procedure Act does not treat all crimes, but certain crimes. As for this second amendment, proposed by MP Djeric, the criminal act of fraud in the sale of immovable property does not exist in the Criminal Law. I agree that the sale of immovable property can bring considerable benefits, but it will certainly be treated through the crimes that we have provided for in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u3993	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u3994	The Honorable President-in-Office, distinguished Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen MPs, of course, was very anxious to pass system laws aimed at an effective and successful fight against corruption. What citizens expect is to create trust in institutions that are going to implement this law, but in order for institutions to implement the law, the law must have solutions that involve a comprehensive fight against corruption. It is precisely the debate on these two amendments that suggests that there could be various cases if an effective fight against corruption was not possible because many crimes are not covered by this law. Here, everyone's wondering, while they're listening to this discussion, whether there's an exclusive of certain crimes, whether some individuals will be protected from prosecution if they gain property benefits, and this law does not cover those crimes. Mr Batic's first amendment is on the trail, and the amendment is also made by a respected counterpart, Djeric, from New Serbia. Trust must also be created in the government if it wants to fight corruption honestly. We had here in the previous period a pompous announcement of the fight against the construction mafia, and now we see that the solutions proposed by my colleague Djeric - are not respected - that one such law and solution in this law includes all the crimes and property that were acquired just by committing a criminal act when it comes to the traffic of immobility. I am not sure that the arguments presented by Ms. Malovic have convinced someone in this National Assembly that they have convinced citizens that by abandoning a large number of crimes, this law will be effective in the fight against corruption. If we are going into a systematic account with this great evil, we must have concrete solutions and that the message that we send to citizens, on the one hand, gives us confidence, and on the other hand, that we are giving all institutions the opportunity to root out every form of corruption, especially by taking away property, which is actually going to achieve the key justice that citizens expect. Citizens expect justice, to take money away from anyone in any form, from any criminal act they gain capital and profit. Please respect these arguments and take seriously the discussion that has been conducted on these two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u3995	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Time is available for 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u3996	Mrs. Komic, since I know you're sharing my opinion, this will be interesting and I hope you'll be pleased with what you're about to hear. What are the reasons, where are the reasons, what are the reasons why we're passing this law? Madam Minister has not explained two key reasons. The first reason that the courts with the existing Criminal Procedure Act and the Criminal Code do not want to apply the provisions on the confiscation of the property benefit resulting from the criminal act. Whether they are capable, whether they are interested, these are other issues that need to be resolved by the President of the Supreme Court, the Ministry of Justice, etc., but our judges do not want to do this job during criminal proceedings. That's the first reason. For another reason, we should be involved in the international fight against terrorism and money laundering. This requires changes in our criminal rules in terms of leaving the investigation to the competent public prosecutor so that he, as a state body, can co-operate with abroad and that this kind of organised fight against terrorism and money laundering is a serious struggle, because this crime does not know about borders, it has a planetary situation. Since these are two key reasons, I remind you that last week during the principle debate on these drafts of the law, I have drawn the speaker's attention so that it would be much better to define myself for another time. That path implies an appropriate amendment to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure and, possibly, the adoption of a regulation that would form a directive that would take care of property acquired by the execution of a criminal offence, because courts do not have the resources or resources to keep that property until the criminal proceedings are completed and it is definitely settled whether it is taken away or returned. That's true, there's nothing out there, to be clear. If we start from these assumptions, then MPs rightly ask why the provisions of this law or, to be more precise, the thinking of taking away the property benefit that came from the criminal act does not spread to all crimes. Officially, any criminal act can also have some advantage and some property benefit. It's wide-ranging. I agree that some of the works can't, but they're all being watched. Then why are we making a selection? Why are we making a selection by the name of a crime, why are we making a selection by the height or amount of property benefit that has been achieved by carrying out the crime? Isn't 10,000 dinars an asset? Two million is? One more thing, I have to remind you, when you think about these amendments, especially you on the left, since the right side is healthy... You anti-fascists are known for obeying the law, burning congregations, but we'll talk about it when the time comes. You have to understand one thing: there is no place in this bill and no physical person can be seen as damaged by some crime. Here's the story of property acquired from the execution of a crime or property derived from a felony, as some imaginary category, which by definition is state property, becomes state property. That's where he got lost in the eyes. To draw attention to you, in criminal proceedings, when a damaged judge's face appears to point him to a lawsuit, he will not be guilty of solving the matter of damages or restitution of what has been taken away. Don't throw up in your previous state, but -- here you go in a lawsuit, so you'll be there in 15 years to prove something. This is where the primate is given and by definition it's said to be some kind of property. Whose could she be? She's supposed to be state-owned, she needs to be taken away. Did this property come from a crime in some relationship with a injured person in a criminal proceedings, whether that property derived from a crime has a natural connection to the damage or something taken away by a physical person, you don't see it. That's the lack of this law. This law has to be passed, you're going to vote it, it's going to break into a few people. Now let me tell you who these people are -- they're small fish, small fish. You nod your head, but I'm telling you that on the basis of experience. Why am I telling you this? A few days ago, "the father of democracy" in Serbia, Mr. Micunovic, on behalf of the DS political council, gave a big thought -- we need to deal with these rich people's attitude towards political parties. He announced something, and that's where he cares. Now someone has to draw the conclusion that this will refer to these famous tycoons. That's not true. Here, Batic will confirm what I say. And this law has a selective application. I know the people who did the bill, so they gave me the elaborates, so the Council of Europe, etc. Of course, I won't say their names. They told me what it was, what the surgery was, what it was designed to do. This is justifiable, I have to tell you, but even the existing regulations don't pose an obstacle to this. It's a nice story for the public when it's said a criminal should take what came out of the crime. No one can argue with that. Everyone backs you up for it, but what's the road? Is the path possible, is it impossible, is it feasible, is it impossible? In the first project, you considered this directorate only ten employees at the level of Serbia as a whole should be employed. It's not like I know better than you do at the Ministry what's going on in your ministry, is it? Mrs. Komic, as you have seen, you have a lot of reasons to share my opinion and I would like to buy you these four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u3997	The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u3998	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately, the proponent's argument is inadequate. I'll explain why. You can interpret any legal norm in many ways: conceptually or Semanticly, objectively or etemologically, linguistically, logically, grammatically, etc. That's the point. The point of the amendment is that here it is just coming from the name of this law -- the bill of confiscation of property derived from the crime. If it were said here - the bill of confiscation of property stemmed from criminal acts of corruption and organised crime, that it was indeed selected and restricted to a particular protection body, then it could be discussed. This type of listing and selecting of criminal acts is in a conflict with the name of the law. That's one dimension. Secondly, in the reasons for the adoption of this law, which was cited by the legislator in the light of the law, you have a clear contradiction. It is said here that the existing normative environment in Serbia, i.e. the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, allows and requires the confiscation of the property benefit acquired by the execution of criminal acts, but not to a full extent and only under a very difficult condition to prove absolutely the direct link between the concrete crime which is the subject of the judgment and the concrete property benefit acquired by this criminal act. In translation this means that this law does not have to prove the link between the crime and the property benefit acquired. It's already against the constitution. It can't. Then vice versa, if the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act foresees the possibility of confiscation of property gains, it refers to all criminal acts, not only those listed in Section 2. Criminal law, and it is further stated that courts are not prone to confiscation of property profits, because it is allegedly non-criminal matter. That's not true. It's the essence of criminal matter. Thirdly, again in conflict with Article 2 of the proposed law, it is said that "it is a common phenomenon that both perpetrators of serious crimes, and especially criminal acts, which are quite certain that they are extremely profitable... "; explain to us that these are crimes against the public order and peace of profit character, that crimes against humanity and other goods protected by international law of profitous character. Life carries various, unpredictable possibilities. Crimes involve various modes that can be strictly standardized if you count them this way. I've already said, for someone's sake, you can slander someone else and you can get hundreds of thousands of euros for that. That's what we used to have. We have something else in practice -- the biggest tycoons in this country every day play tax obligations in front of this law. Their companies are in Cyprus or elsewhere, and they, for example, are not taxpayers in the state of Serbia. Then what? They will not be covered by this bill. Not to mention lobbyists for the needs of foreign companies in privatisation procedures here, etc. So the modality has a brightness. I don't know what the flaw is, because the substance of the property was obtained by criminal acts, as it says in the title of the law, not this or that crime. Basically, if it is the legislator's instinct to take away property, then it can be acquired by various or, in practice, by all criminal acts, on the one hand. If the desire to be the subject of protection is only property acquired by criminal acts from a body of criminal acts related to the fight against corruption or organised crime, then it should have been written, then only those two types of crimes should be narrowed down.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u3999	The word is Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4000	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I only have one question for you: did I really hear you, you said, the crime of fraud in the traffic of immobility does not exist or is not sanctioned by our law? It would be very good to explain this to the citizens of Serbia, as so many Serbian citizens are plagued by this very crime and are powerless to the judiciary, with the police, they simply lack confidence in state institutions. Of course there will be great problems in the application of this law, of course we all know that it will be applied mainly to small criminals, but much less to those who already have an empire that can replace the name of the Serbian state itself. However, I would really like to hear this detail concerning the citizens of Serbia who are struggling at this point because they have lost and without their money, without their life savings and without a roof over their heads, in a magical way, whether this fraud exists in the law and how it is sanctioned. Those trials lead to up to ten years. You'll admit, some even died during that period and failed to exercise their rights, failed to reach their property, were cheated and the state did nothing. If even these con men, who they already know are protected everywhere and everywhere, are not at least mentioned, I'm afraid we'll lose confidence in this law in the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4001	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4002	Mr. Chairman, the presidency, Madam Minister and ladies and gentlemen MPs, is it just one word, whether "consensus" or "thinking" is required. The one word can have major consequences for the continued work of that specialised unit in co-operation with the public prosecutor. It is a very sensitive and specific problem where close co-operation between the two authorities is needed, therefore, specialised police units and the public prosecutor's office. If the head of the specialised unit is appointed only with the opinion of the public prosecutor, it does not have to mean that the minister is under obligation and that he accepts the public prosecutor's negative opinion, so it may happen that as the unit's manager, someone with whom the prosecutor disagrees. Therefore, we would have to avoid such a possible situation, so I really don't see why this one single word would not be introduced into the law, especially because reading the government's explanation that the managers of these specialised units are only being appointed by the prosecutor's opinion, and not by consent... Therefore, the damage would be nothing but the benefit would be quite significant in the event of a conflict, i.e. misunderstanding and disagreement between the two essential authorities to combat organised crime and the confiscation of property acquired by that crime. The Liberal Democratic Party has submitted this amendment for this very reason, to streamline and improve the future work of these bodies.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4003	The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic, so Mr. Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4004	It's a good thing one of these amendments finally showed up. I will take the opportunity to present the problem in principle on the subject of this amendment. The problem concerns a complex administrative act. If one act is adopted by two bodies, whether prior authorisation, authorisation or consent, it shall be a formally complex administrative act. The Serbian Radical Party believes the amendment should be accepted in this case. Why should the amendment be accepted? Because setting up the head of this unit, which even formally needs to be part of the prosecution, because you put it in the title that she's involved in the investigation... Just to remind you, we've transferred the full investigation to the D.A.'s Code of Criminal Procedure; no more of the judge's office than the prosecutor's. Police have the actions of a pre-taste procedure and individual investigative actions the prosecutor estimates can be carried out more effectively by police officers. If that unit is to be involved in the investigation, as you have stated, then it should be more in the prosecution than in the police. You're holding her in police custody because of a police authority that needs to have an official face -- that she can enter the apartment, search her face, etc. What do I mean? We understand that there are two sides to this problem. One is how to preserve police powers for officials, and the other, how the investigation continues to remain in the prosecution's jurisdiction. In principle, I drew attention to this particular chapter, which begins with the title above Article 6 - Organizational Unit in charge of the financial investigation. The word investigation here has a completely different meaning, no meaning of investigation from the Code of Criminal Procedure. Anything that unit would do could be just some of the investigative actions that the prosecutor has jurisdiction over. That unit is, in fact, a unit for lighting, finding and all that is defined in the pre-cover procedure phase. If the interior minister is said to appoint the head of this unit with the consent of the prosecution, as you have stated here, not to go into detail, then it is a solution to the establishment of a joint administrative act, a complex administrative act by both authorities. If it stays the way you wrote in the bill, and what was well noted by those who submitted the amendment, then the deployment is in the jurisdiction of the MUP, and the prosecutor's opinion is optional, it's purely formal, that the interior minister has the paper on which he stands - I'm the prosecutor for N.N.'s opinion. That, that or that. But that doesn't make any sense. In order for something to be binding to be agreeable, prior authorisation or what is in the form of a licence is required. That's why I think the amendment is good, because we call in criminal proceedings the prosecution, whether it's effective, whether it's not effective, whether it's properly prosecuted, whether it's incorrectly prosecuted. I don't think there's any interference, except for the vanity that's widespread when it comes to ministers -- that there's someone out there right now telling me who I'm supposed to choose, that's out of the question, and that stuff. That part exists. I believe that other provisions were needed here to know who could work in that unit, to know who could work on these affairs in the D.A.'s office, to know who could work in a department that took care of that property. Some conditions must be prescribed. It's not enough just to say school preparation, work experience, I don't know, citizenship, etc. Or, the so-called moral-political likeness, and you now baptize it as having high professional and moral qualities. We have moralists here all you want. We heard that the first graduate in Bologna got a degree in Law School, though, no one saw her. Yesterday he confessed to honoring. Yes, now, Todorovic, you're telling me this, but it's my fault now, because in the presidential elections he was a construction technician; if he had said that the lawyer would have won more votes. It's not that simple. I don't know, it's the first place around Bologna, you know. Yesterday we learned that a Bologna graduate lawyer exists in Serbia. So, not to waste this time, it was enough to figure out what it was about. If it is said that the interior minister, with the prosecution's consent, sets that person up as unit manager, it is a complex administrative act. If this remains what you wrote, then basically you don't allow the prosecution to lead the investigation, and that's the end of the story.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4005	Thank you. There's a word Mr. Zoran Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4006	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and MPs, the Honorable Minister, this is not going to come out as much as they support us, but let's go to the amendments. There is one ambiguity, Mrs Malovic: by rejecting this amendment, you cited three LDP MPs as saying that some other laws regulate the appointment to be carried out in the prepared opinion of the public prosecutor rather than by consent. On the other hand, in this document that sums up the government's opinions on amendments, i.e. your ministry, and Vladan Batic submitted and withdrew an amendment to Article 7, where he asked that the head of that special unit of the MUP be called - the head of financial investigations, it is said in a statement that the government did not accept the amendment, which Batic later withdrew, for the reason that you consider it to be a more regular term "unit manager" than "unit chief". I am now quoting the government's opinion: "In addition, part of the amendment was accepted through the acceptance of amendments by the MPs of the People's Parliaments Judita Popovic, Kenana Hajdarevic and Nebojsa Rangelovic as member of the 7th Law. "It says below that the government does not accept the amendment. So it's on the same side. Between this and this, you've accepted this amendment, and you don't accept it here. If this is thinking of accepting this, I welcome it, but I really care why you wrote in one place that you would accept, and when that amendment came, you did not accept it. It's just a blur, or it's a printing error. But it's impossible that it's a printing mistake, because it's beautifully formulated here that you'll accept that amendment. For now, I've been meaning to say so much, and we have more amendments to Article 7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4007	Thank you. The word is Mr. Maras, so Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4008	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, firstly I must express my gratitude to Madam Minister, who, unlike the many representatives of the Government who come to this assembly hall, took active part from the very beginning when the amendments were discussed. I think it's a positive shift and I'm glad it's coming from your side. But I must point to what Mr. Ostojic said. I really expect a reaction from you, since in an explanation why Mr Batic's amendment (which did not withdraw the amendment, as incorrectly expressed by Mr Ostojlić) stated that part of the amendment was accepted through the acceptance of amendments by the MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic and Nebojja Rangelovic to Article 7 of the previous bill, so that we would see that you refuse the amendment. This isn't the first time. Let us remember that Mr Bozidara Delic's amendment was also rejected, although the same amendment of the SPS MPs was accepted. So this has already happened here. I don't know if it's Mr. Balinovac's relapse, since we know who's basically in response to the amendments. I ask you to come out and explain what this misunderstanding is about and whether or not the amendment of our LDP colleagues has been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4009	Thank you, Mr. Marash. There's a word Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4010	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, if this is not a printing mistake and if the amendment of my distinguished colleagues, Mrs Judita Popovic, Kenana Hajdarevic and Nebojsa Rangelovic, is accepted, then I will be ready to withdraw my amendment, because that way it is automatically accepted and part of my amendment, and here it is written. It's just a different title. The explanation says he's accepted, and the title says he's being rejected. Now it would be correct for you to explain it to us. I went one step further. This whole thing bothers me, because it associates me with some events from the past. The unit manager was one of the infamous leaders of an even more notorious unit, which was misrepresented in the minds of our people. Next, what does "internal affairs minister" mean? I guess he's setting it up. Where's he deploying it? Go somewhere abroad? I don't understand. If he's deploying, he can't schedule it, he's deploying it to something. Also, what does that mean? It means favoring the role of police in this law. What does it mean if the D.A. says I don't agree with this man being the head of the Special Operations Unit? I added this on purpose. Regardless, I know you're right about the formation of the MUP. Unfortunately, since these relapses of the past are now reactivated and in the person of the Minister of the Interior, then it's normal for a unit to exist, then it's normal for a manager to exist and then it's normal for him to deploy someone, actually put them in that place. But I repeat once again, if the amendment of my colleagues is accepted, then I... It says here it is. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: No. ) It says here that my amendment is being rejected because one part of it was accepted through the acceptance of amendments by the MPs of Judita Popovic, Kenana Hajdarevic and Nebojša Rangelovic. That is an explanation why, among other things, this amendment is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4011	Thank you. He has the word of Mrs. Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4012	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, as someone who worked in the prosecution certainly tends to, in the nature of things, that the prosecution has greater powers. During the processing of these amendments, we, as the Ministry of Justice, have proposed to the competent committee of the Government to accept this amendment. However, the government's competent board felt that this was not possible and such an opinion went to the government, so this amendment was not adopted. The explanation for which it was not adopted - because it is in coalition with the Law on Police and other laws introducing specialised organisation units of the MUP, where an opinion is needed, not consent, i.e. that it cannot be the consent of the D.A., so the amendment is not accepted. I apologize on behalf of the government for such an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4013	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word is Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4014	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is the fact that other laws are meant to require only opinion, but that does not automatically exclude the possibility of introducing this provision to seek consent. So the opinion does not exclude consent, and I have already explained why it is necessary to give that consent. So, if we want our bodies to cooperate, that this collaboration has some results, then we should make sure that future cooperation is made possible and simplified. That there was a dilemma about that, too, is what the birthmark says. Therefore, we believe that it does not exclude the possibility of another way to regulate the appointment of that manager through other laws, as far as opinions and consent are concerned. Indeed, there is no obstacle, nor is it a problem for now, in addition to that opinion, to ask for consent. I said, it's not harmful, and it can be of great use.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4015	Thank you, Mrs. Popovic. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4016	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mrs. Malovic, this is much more than a procedural or formal issue. This is, in fact, a matter of fundamental importance to us. This amendment, which we have proposed, and the Government rejected it, has, in fact, clearly defined the character of that unit in a completely different way to determine the role of the anti-corruption agency. Will it be another repressive authority of the government or will it be an agency that will actually do its job? Should we in this country be shaken by any change in government and the desire of the government to be the one who will find thieves in the ranks of a rival party or rival faction within his party for an effective fight against corruption and crime? That's the essential question. Is this what we're looking for precedent? It's not. Six years ago, the Serbian Parliament passed the Law on the fight against organised crime, in which the election procedure for UBPOK was very precisely defined. That's what we're talking about. Consent - we spoke in a very clear way about consent. What we have here today is something that in itself leaves the possibility that we are now assessing whether it is good will or not. The more people, the more actors, the more institutions involved in decision-making, the more quality the decision is. All of this can be reduced to a consulting character, but then it's a anti-corruption agency that, unfortunately, will not be successful to the extent that we would like it to be. She has been challenged by the Anti-Corruption Council. There are not many examples of the efficiency of such agencies and this alone can lead us to the position that after some time we are discussing the efficiency and ability of our country to fight corruption and, on the other hand, the justification of forming an institution that will fight corruption. For that reason, it was a very important matter of consent. If there is a way to reach the prosecutor, it is clear that these are simply not unilateral processes, that they are pervading each other. I think it's something in itself that's very important. Consensus is absolutely binding, and opinion is not binding on anyone. Of course, it can have a positive or negative character, it can affect the decision, but it can't commit, that's what we want to do. Secondly, the way it's done is in itself problematic. The first man of that unit is appointed by the minister; we think the minister is a political function, that it should be so. We have, at least formally, begun the process of depolicing our police through the introduction of the police director's institution. That the institution, in spite of everything, has some weight, can be concluded on the basis of the fact that the director of police from the mandate of the previous government is the director of police and in the current term. This function needs to be further strengthened, but not through methods that have been insisted so far, but through giving very clear rights. So, if that's the Minister's will, then actually the Minister is returning to those powers that we wanted, because of the political context, to marginalise through the Police Act. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4017	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Slobodan Maras and Zoran Ostojić. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4018	Dear Presidency, colleagues and colleagues, to continue the discussion of Cedomir Jovanovic, because this is a fundamental amendment that, Mrs Malovic, gives the government an honorable exit. As if we knew, although our colleagues asked for consent, here we propose, in this amendment, to remain an opinion, but a positive opinion, if the opinion is in accordance with the law, here we say - a positive opinion. Why wouldn't that be instead of consent? The essence of our amendment is not in opinion or consent, but in exactly what Cedomir Jovanovic was saying. That unit shouldn't be a police unit that's gonna take up property in the investigation. We need citizens to explain: a special unit is being formed, among other things, by the police, who will take property suspected of being made out of those crimes and handed over to the Department of Justice's Directorate, and the case against the person whose property has been seized, investigation, indictments, trial can take several years. During that time, his property is available to the state. What happens when that person isn't found guilty when she's innocent? That property has to come back. What happens to assets that lose value over time; what happens to assets that are corrupt, such as meat and bananas, they have to be sold, and so on. It's a very complex question. It's a very large authority of that police unit. That's why we think that the chief of police, or head of police, should not be appointed by the minister, but by the director of the police, because that is the essence of the depolitisation of the police - a professional. We are proposing something else with this amendment, because you are essentially proposing an internal procedure in the bill of law. It may be consistent with the systematization of police work, but we think this is a very serious thing to make the systematization look like the Bible. We propose that the director of that unit, or the unit manager, be elected in the competition, appointed by the Director of Police and not by the Minister, be appointed with a positive opinion of the prosecutor, but at the competition. Why should we limit the unit's manager to people who are already employed by the police, who are trained to do so, doubtless that most often and most likely, they will win the competition, but why not open the possibility of someone who wants to get into the job, who wants to try it out in the business? Simply, the competition is more transparent. Let's have some competition, and when it comes to these people who do this job, they're strictly specialized. That's the essential thing. Three things would be accepted, very important, by accepting this amendment: not to be appointed by the minister but by the director of the police, to be based on the competition. I'm sorry, but I guess this assembly has more power than the systematization of police jobs. By the way, we know the police are probably asking for this to be without a competition, but we think the National Assembly... The systematization of jobs in every company, including the police, is, as I say, a means of management, it can be changed, and certainly the National Assembly can before... So I think this amendment is an honorable way out for the government, and it's up to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4019	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Todorovic, Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4020	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the previous amendment should have been accepted. Since you haven't done so, you should accept this amendment, because these amendments that have been proposed as much as this law would get serious. Unfortunately, since 2001, we have the same situation when laws are proposed, which by order come and you simply, as on the tape, put it on the agenda. Your goal is to have a list of laws you've passed, but you're not really going to change anything. Essentially, this law, like all previous ones, will not apply. When you need some accounting within the party or with members of other parties, you will apply these laws. Until then, you have not thought of a single moment to deal with the most difficult problem this country has faced in any way before 2001, but since 2001. What's particularly important, I'll prove to you that it's impossible for you to do this, because someone can't handle the fight against corruption, someone can't take away property acquired by crime and do the same. It's just incompatible. In order not to talk, I must remind you, you have an example of Bulgaria. You know that they did not receive funding from the European Union this year because they have corruption on such a high level that simply the European Union has no intention of giving them any single dinar. We are in relation to Bulgaria at unscrupulous borders. Then how can you count on it? Do you think what you want to do in Europe will only be done because of your wish? No way. Europe will never accept such a state and such a regime. That's what you need to be clear about. Let's start from the beginning, we still have to remember. How can you join the European Union without clearing up with the National Bank's capture by armed persons? Ask any Europeans if that's possible in any normal country in the world. There comes an armed group with automatic rifles, breaks into the People's Bank and "eats a donkey wolf." Eight years cannot be solved, because Minister Mladjan Dinkic is establishing immunity, and here you publicly advocate that everyone should be available to the law. How will you in Europe when we have not yet shed light on the takeover of the Federal Customs Administration by Dusan Zabunovic, also with an armed group of people? Remember, on TV, they explained how they conquered the floor by floor, how they got to the former director of Customs, how they forced him into their service, etc. What about taking over the Trade Court, also through armed groups, when they set up Goran Kljajevic? Only these three things make it absolutely impossible for you to get close, not to enter the European Union. Have you forgotten how to pave the highways by Kumet in 2001, when the head of the ministry was Maria Rusheta? You want to confiscate property from persons who have acquired property in a criminal manner, and he is a protected witness and buys companies in Serbia. Well, he's a protected witness. How can you do this in any way? By June 2001, at the head of the Council in the Roads Directorate, there were people who were not invited once, and according to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council, no job could have been awarded without bid and without the decision of the council. Aman, people, so what do you think, it's forgotten and it won't be time for someone to answer for it? You can't do that. What about the four banks that are closed, "Belgrade Bank", "Beobank", "Invest Bank", "Yugobank", and the banks from the west were brought in? Now the governor is saying this crisis isn't touching us. They're gonna pack bags, bows, suitcases, go, and the citizens are gonna grab their heads. Who's gonna answer? Nobody. What do you mean you're doing? What about democratic robbery and money in Cyprus? Did you forget that? How do you want to do that? You want to go to Europe, you want modern laws, but you don't want to touch anything. You think everything that's happened has been forgotten? Money in his pocket, "the Duke of Meridian Bank", 11 million in shares, and he doesn't give a shit, he doesn't think he's going to have any problem. Have you forgotten the sugars? Three sugars for nine euros. Who bought this? Some CEO of the yellow company, I think. How do you plan to enforce this law? The sale of the Usce Business Centre, so it's a treat, my people, as the state authorities participated in the fraud and sale of the Ustasha Palace for unimaginably miserable money -- for 10 million. Who'd they sell it to? Again to the director of the "yellow company", Miodrag Kostic. You want to join the European Union? The first time you had a chance, you cheated on the European Union. Do you remember exporting sugar 600 euros per tonne and importing sugar cane for 200 euros? Who was the chief organizer, Miroljub Labus. However, he was a Democrats first, so he made progress, and some still feel that progress, so he went among the experts and "eated the donkey wolf". How much damage has Serbia suffered because we couldn't export sugar to the European Union, how much our peasants, our producers, because a couple of thugs from your ranks dragged their hands into your pockets and got rich? Did you forget to sell Cementara in Popovac, Kolesar and Janjusevic? Where are you going to Europe, people, with a bag of cement? You won't get far. What about the sale of the Beacon cement factory? It's not Nenad Canak, he's raised his voice to heaven against the sale of the Beacon factory because he claimed it was a crime, it was a big deal. However, after that he stopped answering, I don't know for a reason, you probably know, but it has to be cleared up. You don't think that's gonna get forgotten, do you? Do you remember NBJ and NBS money? Where that money was held – at Euroaxis bank. Who made that possible? Who made it possible for Vuka Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic to use that money to buy businesses in Serbia? Mladjan Dinkic. And you want to go to Europe? Who are you kidding? Mladjan Dinkic came to finish his job on the orders of the World Bank, the IMF. As soon as it's done, he's packing his bags, he lifts the anchor, and he leaves. It remains the citizens of Serbia who should pay for all this and suffer all this damage we have experienced. What about the Postman's Savings and the relationship with the bankruptcy mob? It's not clear yet. Whose frames were they? Who was Jelica Zivkovic? From whose company? "Yellow" or "encrypted"? Since you're impatient, what about "Sartid"? Can you explain to any sane man that you've changed the jurisdiction of the Trade Court, or at the time of the Court of Commerce, because he was in charge of Smederevsky... There's another dad. You changed the jurisdiction of the Trade Court in Smederev, so you appointed the Belgrade Commercial Court, headed by Goran Kljajevic, who was brought by the Chumes and the team, and you sold the Sartid for 21 million dollars. You're only required to build a port, a railway, and I don't know how much longer, for the seven-eight million euros you need to invest. Whoever signed it, i.e. bought Sartid, could have used the hardware in the best possible way, and what costs Serbian citizens, what do you care. What about selling children's bonds in Serbia's post office? And you forgot that. Have you forgotten the reconstruction and modernisation of the "Nikola Tesla" airport building? Who was the minister? (Momir Markovic, from the post: Rasheta. From which party? "Yellow Company." How much are the ficuses paid? A million dinars. Coughs - 80,000, 800... What's the number for you to cause a reaction for you to solve any of these problems? Arrested, three days later released, because there's something that's... As was the case for paved highways – it wasn't Maria Rashet's doing it herself, a warrant arrived from Germany. The question is, who gave the warrant? What about "Nikola Tesla" and "Bodrum Airport" project worth 100 million? You remember I called from this pay phone the director who left the job, I forgot his current name, in Turkey. We've asked, they're not giving us the papers yet, although based on the law on the availability of information, we have the right to get and see what the project is. What's behind that? What's so secret that you can't get your data back? When something involves this encrypted group, I know in advance that there's some crime going on. What about the sale of a military-technical institute building... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... in Katanic Street and the "Satellite" affair? At the head of the ministry, the G17 minister is again. You want to go to Europe? You can't go anywhere. You can only go to these penitentiary institutions, and in Europe for sure... (President: Please finish. I'll keep going, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4021	I thank Mr. Todorovic. Before I give my word to Mr. Saša Milenić, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure, I would pray and try to remind you, we are discussing the amendment to Article 7 and that is the subject matter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4022	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, stating the violation of the Rules of Procedure at point 103 and in the part in which we are calling for Parliament's dignity, precisely for the sake of the efficiency of work in the debate on amendments, I would like to note that before us the law on the confiscation of property came from a criminal offence, just as all amendments to any member of this law should speak in the spirit of the interpretation of the apparatus that strengthens the Government in the fight against corruption and serious crimes. Hence, with an apology, if the word is too heavy, the dizziness of religion is the ideologically contrasted option in relation to the spirit of liberalism that this law supports and strengthens. It is impossible to use this law as a premeditation for a collectiveised consciousness to express itself in terms of "profit from a crime", or to empower the spirit of liberalism, doubting that capital itself is an illegal category, and only profiting a crime. This is not a law that says anything against the spirit of entrepreneurship and capitalism, which does not restrict political action precisely in the sense of entrepreneurship and the interest of capital that should pull this society out of the economic crisis, but only in the spirit of strengthening the government in the fight against corruption and the most serious forms of crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4023	Thank you. Mr. Todorovic responded by advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4024	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting under Article 101, because apparently the previous speaker has completely confused things. I wasn't talking about ideology at all. What does ideology and crime have to do with it? Or is crime yours ideology? Ideology is a set of ideas that guide someone. I believe someone has such an ideology, that they rob and use every opportunity and moment when they come into a position to do so. I've just shown, just citing the biggest affairs that have happened since 2001, how terrifying it is in our country. Well, you had a few months ago information that a total so far in privatisation, privatizing companies across Serbia, the state's income was about two billion, as much memory serves, two billion and seven hundred million, and that the value of that property was between 40 billion and 50 billion euros. See how much damage you've done to this country, so we can't recover in a hundred years. How can you, on any basis, ask questions about anything, especially when it comes to crime and corruption? Just one of these affairs if you'd lit up and had been responsible for this, you'd have allowed this country to move forward as much as possible. How can you do that if you do not primarily deal with crime and corruption, how can you do that when the main holders of this crime and this corruption are sitting in the Serbian government? That's the problem you're facing and that you can't solve. No law you pass will have any purpose to have, which is to fix the situation, but only to have on paper that you have brought it to these of yours in Brussels and Washington to say - we are a democratic country. The fact that nothing really works in this country, that there's no way that anything can change, is of no interest to you at all. According to your information, even though you've only done it paperworkally, you still have 750,000 unemployed, over 18% of the total working-age population. So what are you talking about? How are you going to solve this problem? In Spain, the financial crisis has alerted them to a percentage of 10% of the unemployed, alarms across the country. (President: three minutes and 15 seconds. We're 18%, you don't care. I'm sorry, I overstepped. You can't solve it, it can only be done by changing the government and changing the regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4025	Thank you. All I can remind you is that a member of 101 regulates the right of a MP to a replica because of the wrong invitation. The word is Mr. Vladan Batic, by amendment. Thank you. The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4026	I'm sorry, Mr. Batic, for the fact that I saw that you were astounded and amazed at Mr. Milanic's exposure. It is obvious that you, Mr Milanic, do not know the basics of law and law. If, in the presentation of the president of our parliamentary group, Mr. Todorovic, who for eight years points to robbery and kidnapping in privatising businesses in all these non-discovered affairs, you have not recognized the interest of citizens, both the city in which you and I live, and the citizens of Serbia, then that is indeed a problem for you. Here are only the taxing facts that we have had the opportunity to see in the work of the Assembly committees, the Privatisation Committee, the Defence and Security Committee. I have to tell the MPs, because many have been surprised by your performance and asked how it is possible for someone to talk about this bill and the amendment that needs to regulate the public prosecutor's relationship towards setting up a person to handle this process for the detection of these crimes, when you don't know a much simpler law than this, and that's the Law on Local Elections. You showed it at a session of the City of Kragujevac Assembly on Friday. You knowingly, as president of the Kragujevac City Assembly, violated the Law on Local Elections. Despite the fact that you have had a unanimous decision by the City Election Commission, the Committee on the mandate-immunity issues and a proposal by the SRS parliamentary group to activate the resignations that have passed by these two bodies, the former SRS committees and to verify the mandates of the new ones, you have been abstaining from voting (which is actually a vote against the law and against the Constitution) made the situation in which we are now exercising our rights through the competent district court. As we were told, today we should expect to get a decision by law and regain the election will of citizens in the Kragujevac City Assembly. And not only did you do it that day, how much your ignorance is, and you chair the congregation of the city of Kragujevac... Indeed, as long as you are in that position I demand patience from all the councilors and the citizens of Kragujevac, and that by any chance is some function that arises from the labour obligation and labour rights, trust me that people would need an unfettered internship of at least one to three years, because they have to suffer that torture of yours. Since you, Mr Milanic, showed basic ignorance and ignorance of laws and rights on Friday, you should never again report back to you as long as you sit on the back of that G17 as an MP in the Assembly, and this one of your Veroljub Stevanović, who can't be by law and by the recommendation of the board of directors, but you don't care. (President: Please finish. ) When you need to break the law in this you are very complex, but you will see, in the course of today, the decision of the competent court, which must warn you that you (you will get, after all, and judgment) violated the law and showed ignorance. At the very least, when the decision of the District Court in Kragujevac on the return of parliamentary mandates as a moral act comes, you should resign because on Friday you deliberately entered into violation of the Law on Local Elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4027	Three minutes and 55 seconds. Mr Milanic, you do not have the right to reply because Miss Jovanovic has called for a replica. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4028	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 7 of the proposed law completely denies what should have been the law enforcement. Article 7 means returning to the sphere of ideological-political manipulation and abuse. Given the fact that the police minister is under the circumstances at this point in time, Ivica Dacic, president of one political party, and that, according to the law, he will schedule, appoint or appoint the chief of the unit, then it is logical that he will be from his own party, because only the prosecutor's opinion is sought, not the prosecutor's consent. Or not to be appointed by the director of the police, which would be elemental. Here's a plastic example. Madam Minister, you remember that time we worked together and what it looked like. I'll remind you. Millions were found in accounts in the Swiss banks of the then Prime Minister, the President of the Assembly and a minister who is now the director of some powerful private clinic. You know that well. We didn't have mechanisms, we didn't have adequate legislation, we didn't even have enough political will and we were in vain nervous. So, is it realistic to expect that if the police minister can be found on impact by the people of his party, and these were just the essential members of the SPS, or some other party tomorrow, who will appoint from their party the leader of that special unit, is it realistic that they will conduct a financial investigation against their members? Well, he won't. Or against their sponsors, and these are today in many parties the biggest tycoons in this country, and they should be the target of this law? That is why it is logical to move away from these possible ideological and political abuses, that, inevitably in the selection of managers, as it is written in the law - units (which reminds me of the managers of special operations units and all those evil times), must be prepared or agreed by the prosecutor or appointed by the Director of Police to the prosecutor's opinion. It just doesn't work like this, because it disturbs the purpose of the law at all. This is the alpha and omega of this law. If it stays that way, then we're free to paint. Please accept one of these two things.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4029	Thank you, Mr. Batic. The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4030	To return to these amendments, they are broad enough to endure any kind of debate and even a reminder of the opposition's part of the objections we've been listening to for years. Mrs. Malovic, this is a very important amendment, another attempt to bring back in some way the meaning of what should actually be the essence of the entire package of laws with which the government came before the assembly. I will remind you of the way members of the Anti-Corruption Agency are elected: Representative of the President of the Republic, Representative of the Government, Representative of Parliament, representative of the Court of Justice, representative of the Association of Journalists, representative of the State Auditing Institution, practically, most of the institutions that the Anti-Corruption Agency should control send to the Agency. When it comes to this law, we've shown you problems. Minister, political function. He chooses the first man of the unit. Prosecutor, on the government's proposal. Severe criticism from the EU, the Venice Commission, the Council of Europe; we will probably have to change the Constitution before we join the EU. Then we have a new level, and that's the Directorate for the Management of That Property, Minister of Justice. The government's concentration is amazing in this package of laws. It's too pronounced to be able to respond to that role, because corruption has a foothold in power, not in opposition. That's right. Where are those depolitical levels that could strengthen the state's position in the fight against corruption? For example, in the director of the police who is formally elected for five years and who is impossible to change unless there are some major violations of the laws that are a prerequisite for the initiation of his shift. We reject the prosecution's consent. On the other hand, we don't allow the director to appoint the first man of the unit, but the minister does. The same is happening at other levels -- the excessive concentration of the executive government in this fight against corruption. That in itself opens up the possibility of abuse. Did we have them in the past? Yes, we did. A year ago, the district attorney from our power period, Mr. Terzic, was charged with post-festum, practically five years after he was charged with the murder of the Prime Minister against the "earth clan". He was accused of being a member of the "earth clan". He was arrested on the last day of his term in Special Prosecutor's Office. Today's official of the duties of the republican prosecutor Radovanovic accused him of such a thing. How did this process end? By today being indicted by former prosecutor Terzic for his second act and being tried before a court in Smederev. No organized crime, no Special Court. The harsh abuse of this institution that today leads us to this initiative. Much more attention must be paid to narrow down the space for abuses. A big affair at the Department of Defense. The affair was initiated by senior government officials. How does it end? By moving the case from the Special Court to the court in Zrenjanin, by now removing the charges from the current Minister Davinic tax. Iolae-led public knows that this process will end either by obsolescence or by a liberating verdict, because, above all, the process was motivated by political accounts. Now imagine these instruments that will be available to power in the function of some new reckoning, and the consequences of all this. You must allow us in some way to give additional credibility to a legitimate government initiative that we recognize in order to fight corruption. If the fight against corruption comes down to using instruments that are beyond any institutional control, practically monopolies of government, then that fight against corruption will actually be the opposite of what needs to be because it is unfair to expect the government to fight itself. Not to put out many examples here right now, I don't think you support them, and I don't think most of them are in favor of the government, but there are absolutely unacceptable examples that make us oblivious today -- at least a positive opinion of the prosecutor. If I was wrong about agreeing to fight organised crime, it's only because I know that the Justice Department gave consent at the request of a special prosecutor when the appointments were made. The agreement was given, the minister of justice signed agreement, not opinion, because then additional responsibility was taken over. If this process is so monopolised, then it will be a unit of the Ministry of the Interior and the Minister, and then he can't expect us to respect such a unit. This law that we are passing will be just another attempt to sort of treat the problem, but without being ready to get seriously into that problem. We know very well that corruption here is a form of life, not a whim of individuals. If it were just a whim of individuals, then it would be something else. Let's just look at what's going on with budget rebalances and people getting employed in local self-government. The justice ministry did not give consent to salaries paid in local self-government, and wages are mostly miserable. We're asking people who run key reactors in local self-government... Let's just say, I'm talking about an urbanist resort that is now subject to serious criticism and abuse; people are working in secretaries for 25,000 - 30,000, making decisions that depend on millions of investments, and the state has no power to respond to their material needs. Then finally, we're surprised that sooner or later someone does something that's obvious to be working on a much higher level. If we want an effective fight against corruption there must be a systemic approach, the state must start saving, it must separate work from work. And, of course, parallel to that, the state has to understand that it's bigger than the government itself. We are here in Parliament equal and if we are fighting corruption together, then give us more space for such a thing. We don't want to give here the legitimacy of a law that will eventually come down to failure. That's what we're skating about right now because of a whole series of problematic solutions: a unit, practically, under government control, a government-controlled administration, a government-controlled prosecutor; well, then it can't be an independent agency. When agencies are formed, it is understood that these agencies are independent of the executive authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4031	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word is Mr. Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4032	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the arguments are the same as those spoken of by the head of our parliamentary group, just a little bit complemented. So we were prepared to support this law, especially knowing that something like this has been present for a very long time in our society. I have to say that until now in Criminal Law, if I'm not mistaken, there's been some possibility of confiscation of property acquired in a criminal offence, but there have been a lot of major problems in implementing this law. On the other hand, we say hello. But this is really a fundamental amendment. So I'll try to give you a few more arguments. In all, four institutions are competent to implement this law. These are: a public prosecutor, a court, an organisational unit within the MUP and a Directorate for the Management of Disposal of Assets. The government or the ruling majority directly appoints the directors of two of these institutions and indirectly, what the whole public knows, has a very big impact on the Republic Public Prosecutor, whom he has kept in V.D. for years. condition. Our amendment is double. We have suggested, firstly, that it be limited by adding, if it is impossible for the formulation to be - consent, then to be - a positive opinion of the prosecutor on the proposal of the director of this organisational unit within the MUP. On the other hand, we have proposed something that, in our opinion, is very important, which is to exclude the interior minister, to take his jurisdiction and to have the person who is headed by this organisation unit within the MUP who is conducting the investigation, which is crucial for the implementation of this law, chosen by a public competition that is called by the Director of Police. Under the Police Law, the police director is the only professional person to be appointed to the ministry by the leading services, the former head of public security. So, if the idea of the law had already been that the minister didn't have that kind of jurisdiction over the MUP, since it was brighter topics, why isn't the head of this organisational unit being appointed by the director of the police? On the other hand, the only reason or the only argument the government has offered for not accepting both this and the previous amendments is that this amendment is not in agreement with the Police Act. It's really unacceptable for us. The law on police is not in any sense a sacred letter, nor do we look at this law with such trust and fear of proposing something that is not in accordance with that law. I'll remind you, for example, that the Police Act gives discretionary rights to the police minister to declare as an official secret the purchase of equipment. It was introduced by the government of Vojislav Kostunica. Then all the purchases in the MUP are official secrets, so then we don't know how many cars, from whom, what equipment, how the toilets are arranged around the Ministry... It's all an official secret. So that law was not a step in the right direction. (President: Please finish. Thank you for interrupting me. So that's not enough argument for us. Just by adopting this law, this law will apply, not the law of the police. We think it's a good solution. If you're against it, make some valid argument, not that it's contrary to something that no one in this room thinks is a good thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4033	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Judita Popovic, then Mr. Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4034	The Honorable Chairman, the Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we return to this article of the 7th Law. Such a brief provision, but so problematic. This member of the law, in fact, enables unlimited power and the influence of the executive authority, which is the interior minister, in the implementation of this law, i.e. in the realisation of the ultimate goal for which we are making the law. What is the possibility of the interior minister having such an important impact on all possible indications of the law's implementation? The Home Secretary is a member of the government, so the executive government. We know who forms the government – most of them, or parties that are in power. So, if this law also deals with organised crime, and the law stipulates that the property resulting from the dealings with this crime, or organised crime, in this case there is a great possibility that this executive authority itself, therefore, will have a considerable impact on which property, when and from whom it will be taken away. This organized crime is precisely the reason and organized, because it is not done by ordinary criminals, but by criminals in the field with one part of the people in power, so people who are also politically engaged. Therefore, giving authority to the Minister of the Interior to determine and regulate who will be the manager of such a specialised unit really means giving too much authority to someone who may also be directly interested in carrying out a particular procedure when confiscating property acquired by a criminal act. Therefore, we remain on the point, which is also the essence of this amendment by Mr. Vladan Batic, to include the republican prosecutor in setting up a key man. A key man - why? Because that operative who's both the right hand and the prosecutor and the court in implementing that law on confiscation of property was acquired by a criminal act, in fact, the head of a specialised unit. We have quite a bad experience with these various specialised units, so sometimes when we propose laws, we take care not to allow too many powers to these specialised units. One of these ways is exactly how the manager is appointed, which is through the interior minister, the authorities, and the executive authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4035	Mr. Free Maras has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4036	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, you can probably see that those who make up the LDP Parliament Club have given great importance to this member, i.e. the intensity that exists, which is that the Minister of the Interior determines the Director. As the previous amendment said, the essence of the whole story is that this right of the interior minister should be taken away. You know that from the ranks of the LDP parliamentary group, the former justice minister, and within our parliamentary group, there are those of us who worked in the state authorities. When it comes to this argument that we have received for the previous amendment, which Mr Ivan Andric explained in detail, where it says that it is not in accordance with the Law on the Police, or regulation, all of us who have worked in the state bodies know very well that these regulations governing internal relations in organisations such as this are actually the key seals of everything. It is totally unacceptable that we cannot amend this law and introduce a provision that the Director of the Police, who is a professional, determines who will be the head of this organization. I hope you will reconsider this previous amendment that we have submitted to the LDP and that you will accept that a professional determines who will be the head of the organisation and also chooses for five years. We believe that this will contribute to his independence in his work, that he will not depend on the minister's shift, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4037	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, Mr. Vladan Batic and Mr. Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4038	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mrs. Malovic, we are practically insisting all the time on understanding this initiative and warning, let's say there is no bad intention, but definitely within the executive authority there is no potential that would allow us to reconcile with this kind of overright, unlimited right, with the absence of any control that the executive authority gives to ourselves. I will give you just one example, the former Constitutional Court judge, the current Minister of Human and Minority Rights in your government, Mr Ciplic, launched in public an initiative that does not suit an imperfect high school student, an initiative to amend the Rules of Procedure, that is, the Law on the selection of MPs, on the basis of which MPs will withdraw each other's mandate because they have found that one of the MPs violates the Constitution. This isn't the Constitutional Court. I don't mind that anyone who violates the Constitution is sanctioned, especially if it's about those works that were spoken of by the Minister of Human and Minority Rights. Imagine what nonsense it is that the former Constitutional Court judge and government minister are proposing amendments to the laws that will allow most of them here to take their mandates off because they're going to declare something a violation of the Constitution. It's not our job. It's the Constitutional Court's job. Now imagine some future minister with the rights that you propose to this law. I don't doubt you at all, but come back three years ago when it was a famous "Satellite" affair, I quote it because of a pointless epilogue: someone's decision by the special prosecutor's office gave a detention measure that lasted two or three months; in the end, an epilogous trial for bribery in the amount of 20,000 dinars, the content of the crime -- paid for a stay for an officer who had a car broken down in Zrenjanin. Imagine that at that moment, it was at the disposal of the executive government, for example, that the unit we are now talking about, or the law as a whole, so that they took the property that was allegedly acquired by the criminal part, worth who knows how many tens of millions of euros, that they had three months of that property. If they were able to dispose of that property, I believe that they wouldn't be civil servants, that they would be capitalists and industrialists and that they would have their own factory. Then that someone comes back from custody. There's nothing from organized crime, there's nothing from the criminal association of Radet Terzic and then he says, "I'm sorry, I'm going to sue my country for failing my company." The company's ruined. Now we're talking about protecting public interest. That is why we want more institutions introduced into this process. That is why it is important for the prosecution to agree, the prosecutor's opinion is positive, so it is important to transfer jurisdiction from the minister to professionals, to the director of the police. There is no effective fight against corruption if all the authorities in this fight against corruption have those who are the natural foothold of this corruption, which is power. The Anti-Corruption Agency – did you see what criteria we adopted, what criteria did the Government propose to us? The majority in this House will stand by these criteria and will not think about the consequences at all. I think it's okay that government ministers can't be founders and play a part in some business society. They can't do business, we can translate it into Serbian. I don't think it's appropriate for most MPs to deal with this business, although that idea is controversial. It's understood, if they're getting paid here, that they should be sitting here, not making more money and abuse the fact that, say, they're close to the government or part of the government. It's already a problem with the opposition, and we're not going to that level that we've made a decision that committees in the local assembly can't be founders of a company and that they can't play a part in a business society. What are these people going to live on? The councilman's not paid for his post. What are these people going to live on? We will knowingly pass a law that will then violate life, as we have passed a law on the financing of parties that is meaningless and which forces every party to break it. There is no fight against corruption by forcing parties to break the law, because the laws are meaningless. You're a lawyer, here's Professor Micunovic, so you know, it's not democracy and the essence of democracy in devising life, but in this symbiosis of life and some rights that must constantly be affirmed in order to protect society and democracy. That's why it's important. I do not think that now Boris Tadic or Mirko Cvetkovic will order the unit to start arresting radicals here or us from the LDP or anyone else. I don't think that's gonna happen. Some institutions will deform themselves because their role will be narrowed down. I don't think he'll do it for no reason, so to speak, I don't think he'll say it - yeah, you won't give the quorum, come on now, arrest him. I don't think so. Deforming institutions loses the importance of the prosecution, it comes down to the minister. The minister, on the other hand, doesn't have much space in the Ministry and the Police Act, so he'll draw his strength on one right that he was given so, I'd even say, irresponsible. We will have major anomalies and there will be no results in the fight against corruption. Then we will get a new government that will come here and say what Milosevic said so many times, as Kostunica said, as Zoran Djindjic, as we all said, as President Tadic said - we are going to fight corruption. It's not a war against corruption with windmills. If it's a fight against corruption, then those who lead us into that fight should retreat and let someone else do it. The fight against corruption implies responsibility and law, the prosecution's right to participate in the choice of the first unit man to do such a responsible job and responsibility for efficiency. Because without the prosecution's partnership and the police, there's no point in fighting corruption. Of course, we need an affirmation of a completely underrated branch of government, which is our judicial system, our judiciary is in a terrible position. It has been prolonged to law enforcement for seven years, since 2001, when we first gave in under the pressure of the DSS and adopted a system of laws that we could not apply and we knew it was inapplicable, since 2001, for seven years, we have not provided the elemental preconditions for normal functioning of the judicial authority in this country. We are responsible for the chaos in the judiciary much more than the judges. Here's another conflicting law: too much government, and it's usually the government that has to be the subject of special attention to those who are fighting corruption. With examples and experiences from the past, it forces us at this time to oppose the law, because it can be abused because of the unlimited rights given to the authorities of the executive authority, or government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4039	The word is Mr. Vladan Batic. I'll give you my word, but time is very short, a minute and a half. Whatever, MP, it's not regulated, I gave you my word, but try to be...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4040	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the provision of Article 7 is contrary to European standards, to European legislation and to the absolute opposite of the Council of Europe's views on the independence of the authorities in the fight against corruption and crime. In absolute. Authorities, anti-corruption and crime institutions must be absolutely independent of all types of government, especially from the executive authority. We have absolute dependence here, we have an entirely important relationship here, and that's what can't be law enforcement. You yourself said that the essence of this law is the confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts from the sphere of corruption and organised crime. I think we have a situation that the interior minister and unit manager he chooses will decide on. So, instead of independence and depoliticalism -- absolute addiction and politicization. The fight against corruption must be a fight against white collars, against crime, above all, at the top of the government. In this way it's absolutely prevented. We have a ruling majority that is the result of an unprincipled coalition. You have one system of connected courts, and if one court pulls out of that system, the whole structure collapses. What does this law and this proposed provision of Article 7 mean? It means there's no saying to initiate proceedings against any sponsor, donor, member of either party of the ruling coalition, as the government falls, it's simple. I will remind you that here our parliamentary group has been insisting for several days that a survey committee be formed to determine how the business of the Serbian master operates. Ladies and gentlemen, you've all been silent, and you've been silent on the right... (The Belief of Radet, from the place: We should not have.) )......................................................................................................... As a little Radojica, we could stick the kids under your fingernails, you shouldn't have mentioned that name. So, how do you expect him to be an object, or someone else, I speak completely symbolic, hypothetically, some kind of financial investigation and confiscation of property benefit? How, when his plane took half the government to a game in Monte Carlo? I said everything, I said which airport they landed at - Alonga near San Remo, because he was busy at the airport in Mondelia near Cannes. Now you expect us all to believe in witches; no, suddenly the interior minister will report that he chooses an extraordinary person to be the leader of that special financial abuse unit. Of course there's nothing to do with that job. The independence of that institution must be ensured. So this man is to be decided by the Director of Police and there must be agreement between the republican, or state prosecutor. It's not much of an independence either, but at least it shows good will for independence. I remind you, during the time of the government of Zoran Djindjic, half of the ministers were outsiders. Afterwards, some of them, satisfying their financial and other ambitions, entered some parties. (President: Time.) ) I remind you, too, that many of the directors of public enterprises were extra-party personalities. This is the creation of an important relationship that automatically deniess the idea of fighting corruption and crime, which is essentially the draft of this law. So we appeal once again that this man who will be, I don't like that term, the unit manager, the head of this financial investigation, is proposing the Director of Police, with the consent of the state public prosecutor being obtained. It is some minimum for the institution to function independently in the future. Because this current constitution will last the longest until spring, and this institution should exist for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4041	Thank you, Mr. Batic. The word is Mr. Jovan Palalic, according to the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4042	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished Minister Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as I said when I discussed the amendment of my colleague Djeric, the point is how much we from the Serbian Parliament will send a message through debate and adoption of these laws that Serbian citizens can believe that the state will enter seriously and in the long term to fight crime and corruption. Simply, there were some principles that the previous governments had begun. Of course, there was agreement on these principles, I believe, and the expectation that the future governments on these principles would also start their work. One of them was also depolitical. Let us also remember the Law on civil servants, whose implementation undoubtedly takes time. But if, in one of these important laws right now, we take that thing back and take it one step back, we're breaking that trust again because citizens expect the fight against corruption to go on. Of course, there are still a number of principles that are in the press these days, and today it's in the press, they're disrupting again, and I can say, they're creating a public disturbance. Here, we in the parliamentary group received a lot of calls, from many municipalities, as a few media outlets showed up texting that 60 municipal courts would be abolished. It was one principle that was established and announced as a policy of previous governments, we see that in this government too it is announced, and that is, even regional development. In addition to the fact that the availability of justice is one of the important rights that citizens should have, the question arises as to how the abolition of so many courts will affect the fight against corruption and the effectiveness of the judiciary, and on the other hand, how citizens living in those environments (we have seen that this refers to a large number of smaller communities) will think about their future and life in these environments when and the availability of justice is at stake. We ask that some of the moves taken by this government and the policy it announces be well designed, so as not to bring down some of the other principles that have been declared here. We, on the one hand, are sending a message that we want to save, and on the other hand we are sending a message to some decisions that the government is running a very wasteful policy. There's no balance or balance in that matter. But if the principle that the judiciary is made available to citizens, who will believe that there will be a serious fight against crime and corruption; of course, when there is no depoliticalisation in this area to the end? Believe that some municipalities have scheduled extraordinary sessions of their congregations after these inscriptions. I would ask you to tell us to the MPs and the public whether it is true and how many municipal courts will be abolished, as well as the consequences of the availability of justice and the organized fight against crime and corruption? This is serious stuff. After such decisions, the fundamental principle of equal regional development can be questioned, because if the courts are moving and abolishing now, tomorrow some other institutions may be abolished -- in education, in health care and in what other areas, where life is really difficult and where we have to make sure that just by strengthening institutions in those environments we send a message to the citizens to stay there to live. I'm afraid that will be questioned. So depoliticalisation, but also the availability of justice and even regional development must be fundamental principles. If this government goes down, everything that's been built for several years will be questioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4043	Thank you, Mr. Palalic. I'd like to ask you just one question - do you want answers from the department's department to the questions you just asked? Yeah. ) Given that there is no issue on the agenda on the organisation of the judiciary, I ask the Service to deliver a stenogram with Mr Palalic's presentation to the competent justice ministry, which will give him the answers. Thank you. I apologize to Mr Nebojsa Rangelovic, because I didn't realize that he was appearing by advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4044	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable Presidency, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, the Honorable Madam Minister, members of 225 and 226 entail not only information and informing the MPs at all, but also if the information is partially and incomplete or if the MP is not satisfied with the information. As for Article 7 and the information we received from Madam Minister on Article 7, and there is still a discussion on Article 7, I believe that this is not a step back in the debate and that this will give another quality of the debate. We just received information that our amendment has not been accepted because it is termologically contrary to the law. As for the word "consensus", according to the rules of language interpretation of law, I do not agree that he is contrary to those laws. In order to facilitate the job of the promoter, we gave a positive qualification in the next amendment. This qualification can certainly be contrary to positive legislation, so I would like to be given a different explanation or a more complete explanation of why our amendments were rejected. That's what I'm asking especially because the antinomity of certain laws is the property of our legislation. If our legislation is pending, I do not understand why we are not allowed to try to improve the amendments, or fix that legislation. At the very least, the Constitution itself is an antinomic. To clarify, antinomic in legal terminology means a legal act that is contrary to itself, whose members are against themselves. It's our constitution. Just because legislation is bad for us, because the Constitution isn't good for us, it doesn't mean that now we have to stick to it and reject the appropriate amendments, because, by language interpretation, they're contrary to something that's in itself random. I'd like to be given a well-founded legal explanation, and I can interpret it because I'm a professor of law school myself, and if we can, we can find an adequate solution to these really correct proposals in our amendments. Next, someone just said -- well, that's the staff question, it's more about the point. And as the staff issues concern the essentials, because the question of the perpetrators of the duties of the republican prosecutor Radovanovic and his senior decisions are the humane issue, so in a bad way they reflect everything concerning the organisation of Serbia's judiciary and not the exercise of the duties of district prosecutor Zagorka Dolovac; and that is the humane issue, but it does not serve the organisation system of justice. (President: Speak for three minutes for 30 seconds. I thank you, Mr. Chairman, but I remind you that I have spent ten seconds quoting and calling on the members of the Rules of Procedure to which I have called. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4045	I thank you, too. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4046	Ladies and gentlemen, here it is, and I have submitted the amendment to Article 7. Proposal for a law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence. There's been a lot of talk about article seven for a long time. A bill of this law. It is therefore concluded that this Article 7 is very important for the implementation of this law and that it is necessary for the Proposer to pay a lot of attention both to the suggestions and amendments to this article and to the amendments to the other members of the draft laws that come later. What do we got here? We have a situation to form that investigation unit. The minister will pass a special act on the systemization. We have seen, from the presentation of previous speakers, that this is not a technical question at all, but an extremely essential question. Then, normally, a certain act on the appointment or deployment of the unit manager will be adopted, in the following opinion, as stated in your proposal. I wanted to add this article of the bill to an amendment that I consider essential to character. Namely, what happens when this organization unit discovers that there is property that has been obtained by certain criminal acts? From that moment the unit discovers that there is this property until the moment until a solution is reached on the temporary or permanent seizure of this property can pass a very long period of time. Practice shows that it's a common phenomenon with us, that it can last even a year or more. What's going to happen in that situation? When I was talking about this law in my time, I said that he might be good enough to have certain holes in him, certain holes, that he doesn't remind me most of that Swiss cheese, and that each one of those holes gives the possibility of a certain abuse and a violation of the law. It is this article 7, if this amendment is not accepted, it gives that possibility. So it gives the possibility to abuse the law. Why? Here we have the perpetrator of the crime, we have the property that came out of the crime. It has been found that such property exists. If the persons are not specifically identified, therefore, if the unit manager does not determine the person or persons who will take care of that property until that moment until a solution is reached on the permanent or temporary disposal of that property, and I said that until that moment, a very long period can pass, it is possible for the perpetrator to commit another crime. It's given the opportunity, for example, to alienate that property. Can someone be so naive and think that the perpetrator of a crime who committed one of the serious crimes will be libi and will not commit another crime and, for example, sell or alienate that property? Of course they'll alienate her. It can be trafficked several times, even after that it can happen, over a period of time, to become an honest man. And we have that in practice, I'm sure. So, while the prosecution, the court, the management directorate of the seized property has reached a solution and until the property is taken away temporarily or permanently, it can pass a very long period of time and that property can change even more owners. That's exactly the purpose of this amendment -- so that this property doesn't change the owner and simply, if the perpetrator hadn't alienated her. However, if this amendment is not accepted, I have the impression that this will happen. Maybe that's what someone wants. Maybe it's about the traffic of that property, the estrangement of that property, and all for the purpose of the conversion of capital, the turnover of money, that money that many of you really love very much. In the end, that's what your friend Javier Solana tells us. To remind citizens of Serbia, it is one who has been the generator of many evils in this country over the past years, it is one who has ordered Serbia to bomb in a senseless and savage manner for 78 days, to bomb and to find nearly 3,000 innocent victims in the bombing, to make material damage to this country tens of billions of euros and so on. He says in one place for you, here, I'll quote, "As far as I know Serbian politicians, I claim that money is the strongest argument for them." Gentlemen, your friend knows you very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4047	Thank you. Mrs. Vervain Radeta answered her word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4048	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Mirko Munjic has really detailed the amendment he tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group and I am almost convinced that you will vote for this amendment in the day of voting. I am surprised, Mrs Malovic, that you have not responded and accepted this amendment on behalf of the Government. When it comes to what someone has written to you in an explanation why the Government does not accept our amendment, you, like me, as all of us, know that these amendments are not being discussed in the Government, that you give this to one of the officials who participated in the making of the law and that they give arguments that first occur to them; they know that they should not accept amendments coming from opposition parties. We have here an explanation that the Government does not accept the amendment for the reason that this issue is already regulated by the provisions of the applicable Code of Criminal Procedure relating to the temporary confiscation of the case. This is true. But it is also true that what we were saying in the principle debate, that this matter is already well regulated by the Criminal Code and that there was no need to pass a special law, that it should insist on codifying criminal law in Serbia, and not that every law this Parliament adopts has some new criminal acts that are not in the Criminal Code. That's not good. If something is, eventually, precise in this bill, we think it could have been done through amendments to the Criminal Code. More than half of what is provided for in this bill of yours, I'm not talking about amendments, I'm talking about a government proposal, more than half the solution is already prescribed by the Code of Criminal Procedure or Criminal Code. You didn't mind that. Why, then, do you mind if one amendment insists that it is really detailed (not to repeat what my colleague Munjic was saying) to protect this thing that will be taken away? Why is it a problem to accept this amendment? Because it's already been regulated by the Code of Criminal Procedure. How do you interpret, Mrs. Malovic, the other provisions, other solutions to this law that are already contained, I repeat, or in the Code of Criminal Procedure or Criminal Code? The government should try to make these arguments a little more convincing. We MPs, and above all, I mean the MPs of the SRS, we read very seriously every law, we interpret, we submit amendments, and we cannot allow the government to treat MPs and parliament in this way. The right of the government is not to accept the amendment, but it's not good. We've spent almost two hours today at the debate on Article 7. You cannot accuse anyone of trying in any way to obstruct the work of parliament, there was no notification by the Rules of Procedure, except where colleagues did not have enough time, so they used the Rules of Procedure to explain their ideas and their amendments. As a representative of the government, don't you think that it deserves your attention and attention from the government that the MPs from different political parties, the truth of the opposition, are discussing more than two hours on the part of a member of the law? It would intrigue me if I were you, and I would suggest to the government or, on behalf of the government, I guess that's how much authority you have, I would accept some amendments. No amendment is inconclusive, no debate, no discussion was inconclusive. On the contrary, all the MPs addressed you as a representative of the Government and other fellow Members of the People with a sincere desire to accept each amendment. You had a number of reasons similar to what I told you yesterday when we talked about that law. You haven't been a minister for a long time, and maybe you don't have that experience. You worked in another area, you worked in the D.A.'s Attorney General's Office. That's where the other regulations apply. That prosecution is completely tribunalized and you know it well, but that's another topic. I'm not complaining, I'm just saying that we know that. You have no experience as a minister. You'll see, I'm afraid you'll be uncomfortable when you come with the same law in two months, that is, with amendments and additions to these laws, and when you put amendments proposed by the MPs here. We'll ask you what changed in the meantime. I will tell you what will happen in the meantime – you will have inapplicable law. I don't understand why you don't want to understand that it's not good to waste the time of the people's messengers, to spend time in parliament so that you may say to someone there, here, we have passed the law; what kind of law does it care? When the law is to be applied then problems arise for those who apply the law and for whom it applies. We have a bunch of complex laws that have been passed over the last few years, standing in somebody's drawers, that don't apply, and you know it well. You know what you found in the area of justice, whose head you're headed as minister. How many times have we gone through some laws? How many times have we put some courts in a situation that after a few days their work is not covered by any law? How many times have we brought judges into a situation that they didn't know what to do and what to do in complaints, which courts to solve? The ruling majority is responsible for all of this. First, the government is responsible, because it proposes such bad laws and then the ruling majority. If you don't want to talk to us, talk to them. There are also colleagues on this side who are able to explain, and you are a lawyer yourself, to agree, to say that this amendment should be accepted because this amendment seriously improves the text of the law. It would really be good for you to begin to experience amendments made by the MPs. None of us write or tolerate amendments to write or speak here. You see from the content of the amendments and the discussion of how serious it is, how responsible the job is. And, I repeat, if you have four or five amendments on one member of the law, which are both similar and different, that's about the fact that there's something wrong with that article 7. (President: Time.) I'm done. Thank you. If today fifteen colleagues, mostly lawyers, were talking about Article 7, and you're just folding your shoulders, then that's not good. This law, when you pass it, will be inadmissible. Live and see, we'll have changes and additions to this law in the next two or three months.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4049	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, Mr. Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4050	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is precisely what confirms that all those objections from the amendment to Article 7. Not that they don't want the independence of these bodies and institutions, but they just want to be completely politicized. Not that there's no depoliticalization, but there's a potential for politicization. I don't know why it bothers the director to be a member of any political party. And then, in the light of why the amendment is rejected, everything is literally said that it should not actually be a member of any political party: it acts in accordance with the Constitution, the law and other regulations – it does not mean anything because all civil servants must act in accordance with the Constitution, the law and other regulations – according to the rules of the profession, impartially and politically neutrally. A civil servant must not work to express and represent his political position. Then why does it bother the amendment not to be a member of the political party? Today, throughout Serbia, we see civil servants in extremely significant public functions who are simply not listed as members of a particular political party, but wear an aggressive, disproportionate badge and every man... They appear this way, because it must be a condition to see loyalty at any moment to that party; because they have no ideology, at least loyalty to the leader and the master of basic ideology. Then you see the directors of various public enterprises, the airport, the JAT and who not everything, with the huge badge of their political party. A man is declared to be a member of a particular political party in front of foreign and domestic partners, which is ugly and rude. It would be essential to put this definition here so that it should not be a member of any political party. We have already said, the minister of police -- a member of the party; the head of the famous financial investigation unit will by definition be a member of his party. There's no neutrality here. Read the views and instructions of the Council of Europe on how institutions should be structured to fight corruption and organised crime. I repeat, even the legislator here is afraid of being accidentally neutral. Here is the message: Be members of the ruling party, there are no problems; the target, the victim and the subject will be political insolents, their potential sponsors, friends, etc. I do not see a rational reason why the amendment that I have proposed, as a DHSS MP, and my esteemed colleagues, Slobodan Maras, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic, is not accepted. It is the essence of what should be in all laws and institutions to fight corruption and organised crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4051	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4052	I really don't understand, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the government of Serbia, that such amendments that conform to the bill rejects only because the amendments have been written by someone who doesn't belong to the ruling establishment. Speaking of the ruling establishment, while we are talking about this law several hundred students are in front of the Assembly, mentioning Bologna, mentioning you from the ruling structure; there are some parents who mention not only you, but also family members. Come out, tell the students what to tell them. Speaking of Article 11, I'd like to return to Article 9, because we've used our time, given that the amendment is our MP. It is a professional assessment of the assets to be taken away. I think Mr. Vladan Batic's amendment should be accepted. Professional assessment of assets acquired by criminal actions. If we look at this recent crime where the assets of the SRS are criminally acquired, that this law is now in force, then some expert should assess the value of this property – it is 20 mandates, worked 20 times 15,000 votes, because it is a multi-sense parliamentary mandate – and return that property to the one from whom it has been seized in a criminal manner. Speaking of criminal stores, I don't want to remind you that I've mentioned crime several times from this pay phone in one company. It was a public company, so it became a stock company, so now it's become a company where two states are owners, it's about flying control, so since you couldn't pack up any of the ministries, and you're looking at every possible way to waste a huge amount of money, the assets of this country, then you transferred it directly to the prime minister's jurisdiction. Let me remind you that there are a couple of tens of thousands of euros there. And the one I called and proved from this pay phone, instead of Ivica Dacic as minister, is now being appointed, is being proposed to the chairman of the company's Management Board. Let's talk, say, about one that's from that encrypted part of this "yellow company." First he proved himself, I remind you, and I was talking about it, when "Luthium of Serbia", the state lottery, was cornered and instead formed "Lutrija of Serbia AD". He led a young, promising expert, an expert, and to this day it is not known how many vines, vines, and everything else the company does, how much money is taken, where that money ends. As I recall, so far no winner of the famous week has shown up. Having done so nicely "Lutrija Serbia", he went to Belgrade Airport as an expert for director, and immediately set off with the Faculty of Economics to restructure Belgrade Airport. The Belgrade Aerodrom restructuring project paid the university 3,100,000 dinars. As much as Belgrade Airport has been restructured, you can see now, but three million have gone to some of his friends who, with unfortunate circumstances, are at the university in Belgrade. The director, the Management Board and those around him have official cards, are mostly from the Piraeus Bank, so they don't spend their money when they're doing public work, when they're doing the work of Belgrade's Airport. There are amazing figures, it's 24,000, 38,000 a day, and so on, it's 579,000 for six months, but they're praised for this, because 800,000 were approved by the Management Board, and they only spent 600,000. Since the director can't drive in those violations at Belgrade Airport, aged two or three years, he took from the Porsche to the renter the latest "audi", except he doesn't sing along the way and he doesn't play Žika's bike on the way. From February 5th to July 23rd, on behalf of the rental of the car, 1,200,000 dinars were paid out of Belgrade's airport register. Because when a man drives and gets hungry, he has to eat something along the way, the man's on account... Not the general director of his money to take out and pay the bills, why he is the general director of the Belgrade airport; he is not eating it for himself, but for Belgrade's airport. Well, he says this: Director General's catering services from February 1st to July 31st - 818,000 dinars. Well, if he'd taken the camel by his side, they wouldn't be able to eat so much together. And since he's with the Belgrade Airport, a man must also travel and see the natural beauty of this Europe that you want to bring us into. So, for example, he traveled on August 6th, came back August 7th, so he didn't stay. It's not that he's gone, it's that he's back. The price of the tickets from Belgrade to Zurich is 178,650 dinars, and I asked my colleagues who were travelling to The Hague because they traveled to The Hague until some of them prevented them from meeting with Dr Vojislav Seselj. Team members and his advisers say the ticket to The Hague and back is 300 - 400 euros, depending on whether it is summer or winter season. Calculate how many euros these 180,000 dinars are. A man went to London, a map was 132,000. Well, yeah, he's got to go around Andes to land, probably. Since he went there today and came back tomorrow, he's got to sleep somewhere. How would the director of Belgrade Airport sleep in a hotel there, ask God? That's why he took Hilton Park. For that one stay, though, there's some breakfast, he probably reduced the food costs by restaurants because he had breakfast for a man there, 60,000 dinars. What did they feed him for this money? He also traveled to Madrid. However, it was the season, but he had to see that the Belgrade Airport co-operation with the Madrid airport must be closely established. He traveled with Nestorovic Dragan, and since Nestorovic Dragan is not the CEO, for him, some other class, however, will be on the same plane. Bojan Kristo paid for his trip to Madrid and back 154,500 dinars, or Belgrade Airport, or Serbian citizens. I'm sorry about this lapus, "The Bojan Kristo paid"; he didn't pay anything. For Nestorović Dragan, as he ranks lower, the map is 113,000 dinars. I don't know how much it costs to rent these little planes that Pink's betraying, I think that's where that number's moving. The board of directors, of course, has to run as many airports as possible, so, for example, these board members had to eat something on the way; because, why are members of the Management Board as much and as much of that kind of airport. Well, "Golden Varosh" - 4,500, "Piros Serbia", it's a restaurant - 10,000, so Chinese restaurant - 3,600, frog legs, and "Agrofarm" - 28,000, what did they eat in this "Agrofarm"; mostly, a total of 53,000 - one man. Now there are nine of them; nine times these were eaten by the members of the board of directors. The board members have to get some money, they can't just run a card, it's embarrassing to people. They got, say, monthly appointments, don't hold me by the word, I think it's half the sum because they are being paid, as we MPs get half the salary of the fifth and half the twentieth: let's say, some Trukula Miodrag 313,000 times two, Ilic Vesna 250,000, did not report for the discussion to contribute to the progress of Belgrade Airport, so it is 250,000, so Andric Nebojsa is also 250,000, Kozličić Danilo 251,000, so two times of course, so Stamenkovic Miodrag also 251,000, so two times, so Krajic Vojislav, Jovanovic Slobodan, Kafedzic Ksenija, Milovanovic Miodrag etc. And of them, once a month, twice a month for 2,321,000 dinars. If the board members get this much, then so must the executives. I have no record of how much he got for the director, but I have how much he stole and how much he ate and how much he spent. He probably got a lot more; half the salary for a board, for those lower, is 581,516 dinars, etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, citizens of Serbia, remember what money this Belgrade Airport made, remember how many state funds it invested, remember which parliamentary group, or which political party this expert belongs to. If this is discovered, how many times has it been hidden this many times? When this law comes into force here, you won't be able to take anything away. No acquired property, property was eaten, drunk, flew over, spent on the renter, etc. This is the problem of this law, which has not found a way to fight against such pests.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4053	It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The parliamentary group has two minutes to go. After that, the People's MP is Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4054	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I appeal to Article 226. The Rules of Procedure, under which the MP has the right to request notice and explanation from the President of the National Assembly, and I refer to members 27 and 31 who describe the work of your work. You've already heard from the predecessor's statement that the street is blocked in front of parliament. Several hundred students, mostly from the Faculty of Political Sciences, protest and demonstrate precisely against the legislative solutions and amendments brought by this parliament. So my particular question to you is what did you do to meet young citizens? We represent citizens here, we are a representative body that should certainly be interested in these problems. That's my question to you. I'm just going to explain further that young students are protesting precisely against the amendments proposed from the ranks of the position. We discussed the bill, there was a search in principle, which was supposed to fix the Law on Higher Education, because it proved that Bologna did not work, that it gives students extremely low passability. We know that Bologna gave 30% pass-by at our colleges and that then the students rebelled, because not only were the students guilty, but also the uncoordinated programs, and we talked about it in the principle debate. Then the minister found a Solomonian solution to make the law you make. Just what the Belief of Radet has told you – make a law that cannot be applied and then make, for God's sake, a new law that you want to sort of correct your mistakes. However, these solutions are often of no use to you. The minister promised students he would lower the quota of points needed for next year's transition. In principle, we've all accepted it here, and then again, someone comes to the sense that the amendments deny the right of students. That's what I want to tell you. I want to appeal to all MPs of the Serbian Parliament, and also to you in charge, to see what they want, to meet them, if possible, within the limits of the laws and regulations. We should be serious about the problems of our citizens, and not about having this unfavorable relationship with the debate on laws and amendments, allowing us to have many laws like this, and then big problems that can result in social unrest and other incidents on our streets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4055	The information I can give you is that an agreement has been made on the meetings of representatives of students and presidents or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups. The moment I came to the O.R., there was just a meeting in one of the parliamentary groups. This is what the National Assembly must do whenever it comes to the request of any group, any association of citizens who have objections to the law or a bill relating directly to them or relating to anyone. The outcome of that conversation I think there will be information for all MPs, I assume there will be a meeting of students' representatives and other parliamentary groups. That's the information I have on the organization together. If you want, I can ask the competent authorities for information on whether the meeting went in line and by the rules. The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras. The LDP parliamentary group has 11 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4056	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I have reported by amendment from Mr Vladan Batic, who is almost identical to the amendment that I have submitted with my colleagues from the Parliament club, but in order to be able to use all the time that belongs to us as political parties, I will discuss this amendment. To me, Madam Minister, it is really not clear why this amendment, as well as the next amendment, has been rejected. I'll read the essence of the amendment. The point of the amendment is to add words in Article 11(3) - and cannot be a member of the political party. Here you have given an explanation which I would also be free to read: "The government does not accept the amendment for the reason that under the bill the Director has the status of a civil servant in place and is subject to the provisions of the Law on State Servants. Article 5 The law on civil servants is prescribed that a civil servant is required to act in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the other regulation, according to the rules of the profession, impartially and politically neutrally. A civil servant must not express and represent his political beliefs at work. "If I could accept your argument, which is why you reject the amendment to Article 7, you said it was contrary to one law, it does not say anywhere here that this amendment is contrary to the law, any one. With this amendment, we are merely trying, because of the importance that the Director of the Directorate has, to clearly and decidently state that he cannot be a member of the political party. You know, I'm sure, and everyone who sits here and those who watch, there's a lot of abuse when it comes to party interests of people who sit in such important places. As Mr Batic said, whose amendment is this, the police minister is a party figure. The organisation's manager, from Article 7 we talked about, will also be a party figure after the defolt. If the Director of this Directorate is also a party figure, we will have a completely party-colored institution. I don't think that's in line with everything we stand for together. I don't think there's any excuse for such an amendment to be rejected, as well as for the next amendment submitted by the three of us from the LDP parliamentary group. Please give me an explanation later which is why this was rejected, which is why it cannot stand in the law that it cannot be a member of any party. As we have just heard here, indeed we who have worked in state authorities know that there are those who wear badges, even though the executives are in certain companies, in the workplace. Not only do they show their party membership, but we also know how the business within the work that I've been doing and who it's been going to, and who it hasn't been going to. Put this directly and I think we'll all be happy. You will also be satisfied and you will have an argument that it is not a party personality, that it does not work in the interest of a particular party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4057	The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Maras, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4058	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, Madam Minister, the Liberal Democratic Party has tabled an amendment to Article 11 and we propose to add a new position to the 4th, which reads: "The Director cannot be a member of the political party. "As we heard earlier from my colleagues from the parliamentary club, the Serbian government has rejected this amendment. We think that the explanation they provided us is not enough for us to accept it, although it is said here that a civil servant must not work to express and represent his political beliefs. This is because we from the Liberal Democratic Party are in a situation today... In Sandzak, i.e. The pre-election campaign is under way and the election campaign is mostly attended by state officials, state secretaries, ministers. We are witnessing that some civil servants do their job using their inspectorial powers selectively to those companies that do not belong to some political groups. Also, many people in Prijepolje are threatened with job layoffs because they belong to another political group, i.e. pressure is being placed on activists, LDP sympathisers, although it is against the law. I will note that we and the Democratic Party, or the ruling majority, reached a strategic agreement in July on European integration business. We of the LDP believe that this strategic agreement is not an excuse for our votes on government proposals, but rather we really want to participate in the creation of all the laws and policies represented by the Government. I hope that LDP activists and supporters, specifically in Prijepolje, will not be in a position to threaten them, to be blackmailed just because, for example, they advocate that Brodarevo become a municipality in accordance with the law, because we advocate to solve the problems of workers in the textile combination, because we advocate to find a strategic partner for the chemical industry "Elan", etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4059	The word has a folk letter from Natasa Micic. The parliamentary group is available for 13 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4060	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in general, the problem in this country is that we live in a party state. The party constitution is in effect. Any need to have, if you want to get a job, you have to be a party member, if you want to be in a leading position, you have to be a party member and get consent, whether it's a profitable enterprise or a non-profit. I mean, even school executives are chosen by the key to party membership. That's not good. Today we have the opportunity to send a signal to citizens as the supreme legislative body that you do not have to be a member of the party in this country so that you can be a professional. I don't see why this director of the Directorate, who's acting under this proposal for a law of confiscation of property for crimes committed, would have to be a party man. As the only reason for not accepting our amendment, which requires that this be not the condition of the Government, or the Minister of Justice, has pointed out that this executive, the director, is acting in accordance with the Law on Civil Servants. I don't see this amendment contrary to that law. In this way, the bill could be improved, and the Assembly and the Government could stand against a generally accepted principle among citizens, which is that the country's absolute division and politicisation is in place. For every problem, for every need you have, in this country you have to waste twice as much time and nerve to finish that job, because you have to go through the game. I simply don't see why – especially because the minister is a party man – the director of the agency would have to be a party man. Does that mean that every time the government changes, when the minister comes from a new party... Then why don't you accept this? Then this is a way to avoid that possibility, because this bill opens up the possibility that it has to be a party man. We only ask our amendment that the director of this department not be a party man.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4061	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. The parliamentary group has 10 minutes at the moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4062	The Honorable Chairman, the Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we assume that two reasons for the adoption of this law on the confiscation of property have been obtained by criminal acts. One reason would be that our country should harmonize its rules with EU regulations. So, in order to bring the EU closer together, it is advisable and necessary, we support this, that such rules are passed in this country that would warn all possible types of organised crime and similar types of crime that are definitely ruining this society, the community and our economy. Therefore, we have good reason to pass the law. The second reason, which is derived from this first one, is to enable and give some technical assumptions about the successful fight against this particular type of crime, which is that organised crime. It's okay and LDP supports it. So both of these reasons are significant, important and it's all right. However, we do not see why it is a problem for a provision to be introduced into Article 11, one attitude that would say the director cannot be a member of the political party. We believe that calling for the existence of a provision in one general law, which is general in relation to this special law, which regulates this conflict of the interests of civil servants, in relation to political parties, is not a valid explanation and is not a reason for the strict and clear fact that the director cannot be a member of any political party. In fact, we are in some way allowing the possibility of abuse of any political party that one day is in power. So I don't exclude any political parties that will be in power when this law is passed. So, there is this possibility of misusing these facts about the political membership of the director, but that possibility itself makes it difficult to accept this law and creates some doubt whether we are taking this law seriously and whether we really mean it. It is not right for political parties to have control and the ability to interfere with such laws and to enforce such laws. Therefore, there are neither formal nor essential reasons to recommend that this amendment not be adopted. I urge the amendment of the Group of People's MPs of the Liberal Democratic Party to be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4063	Sasa Milenic, the MP of the people, has the word, and then the MP of the people Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4064	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the problem, in fact, can be set in a much more general way. What is it that a non-partisan citizen recommends to perform public office? Is it contrary to the assumption that a citizen who is a member of a political organisation is thus involved in social processes, so his consciousness is interested, hence particular? Of course. What kind of person whose consciousness is not particular and interested? There's only one, and there's three, and that's the Lord God. Of course, someone who belongs to reality is involved in this reality, unless it is isolated from the school, the party, then the bank, the account and all other forms to which the society provides in the specificization of the individual. It is frightening to advertise from a pay phone to a multiparty parliament as a citizen's recommendation. Of course, a citizen has the right to distance himself from daily political life, but it is not clear what such a position recommends. To be even more precise, "Together for Kragujevac", which works in this parliament within the G17 parliamentary group, insists on discontinuity. Just as I was saying earlier that the topic of liberalism and the development of capitalism and political support for the private initiative cannot be mixed with the subject of corruption, in the same way, if we want to build a perspective, moment and civilizational framework of recorded, political and legal frameworks, we cannot criticise political pluralism and a multi-party system as an element that contaminates social reality. To be exact, it's a relapse of a non-partisan totalitarian regime, from which, by inheriting state continuity, we have not yet been released. At that time, one party in the free system acted not from the point of view of the party programme but from scientific doctrines, so anyone who wants to deal with politics is already suspicious. It politicizes, it introduces the ground floor, infectious waters of social realities and looking at problems, and in fact, only this scientific doctrine that works, then truly the only, ruling party -- is serious. That's why he despises politics. Of course, the state order is a legal-political system and it is not clear how someone would recommend exclusion from social processes for public functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4065	The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4066	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, for who knows which time we are trying to explain that in the very explanation of the rejection of these amendments you agree that it should be someone who is not a member of the political party. I don't know what's stopping you, not personally, but the government as a proposing that this amendment be accepted, so that we can say that at least here, it's given up "cadiya sues you, cadiya judges you". We are witnessing that here both porters and cleaners must be members of political parties, that this is a party state, that everything is politicised, that only political parties share these feeds, i.e. Latinies at the level of ministries, public enterprises, state institutions, various directorates, boards. I suggest to you, Madam Chairman, that a stenogram of what Mr. Markovic just said, with that information, be referred to the public prosecutor. It's great material for a public prosecutor. I've traveled a lot, and I've never heard anywhere that a third of this price that's mentioned, say, for plane tickets could be worth this much. One more thing I would like to ask you, if perhaps in this unprincipled coalition at the level of the distribution of prey, it is agreed that all the authorities and institutions involved in the adoption of this law on the confiscation of property derived from criminal acts should belong to the SPS, then tell us that we are not working hard for nothing and we insist that the Head of the Financial Investigations Unit cannot be a member of the political party, that the Director of the Directorate cannot be a member of the political party, that we know what it is about and that we are not wasting our time, nor you. I repeat, there is no abuse here at the level of civil servants and directors of public enterprises; well, here is the one wearing the badge, and mentioned, the director of the airport, and there are several of them from the same party... Part of that badge is the EU flag, which is contrary to the ideas and attitudes of the EU that civil servants and people headed by state institutions should not insult all other people by wearing their badges; they are seen from afar, so they are big badges, that they have not accidentally strayed and strayed from the way of party policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4067	The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric. The time available to the parliamentary group is four minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4068	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is an extremely scandalous explanation first offered by an MP on behalf of the ruling majority. It shows a complete misunderstanding of what we've been talking about here all along. Therefore, in the sole speaker's view on behalf of the ruling coalition, it is perfectly normal for someone who is party member and who is appointed by the party president to carry out the following tasks: he manages the assets seized from the criminal offence, conducts an assessment of the assets seized from the criminal act, warehouses, preserves and sells temporarily seized property, keeps records of the property, etc. We have to answer this because this is actually a fundamental difference. We've been warning all along that the spirit of further partition of the state is always passing this law, and now it's obvious that it was intent. It's something the LDP absolutely disagrees with. So, what are the problems with someone who's a party member being in such an important position? The problem is that as long as it is loyal to the party's top, if it is loyal to the party that is in the ruling coalition, it pulls aside that it will never investigate the malversions that one makes on behalf of the ruling coalition. That's the problem. The object is to politicize when an opposition MP comes out and says he's paid by the director of the airport, a member of your party, sir, over a million and a half dinar; it's not politicizing, it's a crime. So 20,000 euros is the salary of the director of the Aerodrom, which was only set up because he is a member of the political party. No other qualification of that man puts him in that position. He had previously performed a diametrically opposite position, and the justification was that he proved to be a good manager. You know what, the average salary, at that same airport, people who aren't party members is about 30,000 dinars. It is a few percent salary of a party hearer whose sole merit and reason it is in that place is that he is a member of a political party that is in power. When it's warned, you say it's politicizing. No, demagogy is something else. We have time and we'll illustrate it to you. Demagogy is when seven days before the election, you say that citizens will get 1,000 euros when shares are distributed free of charge, and then three months after the election, you say -- it's not 1000 euros, but, I don't know, 500 euros, and we don't know when it will. It's demagogy. What we're saying here, it's not demagogy, it's politics. In the end, it all comes down to it. We ask that this amendment be accepted. When one of the ruling majority reported, we expected to support our amendment, because as it relates to you, it applies to us, and to the so-called. The left and right sides of parliament. Why is this amendment important? Because if someone is chosen by a public competition, he is independent of the political will of any party. If it's still a law on organised crime, criminal property acquired, the fact that he's independent of the government is much more important than any other civil servant. That is why an amendment to Article 7 has been tabled -- not to be appointed by the minister but by the director of the police, and the amendment to Article 9 -- that it cannot be a member of the political party. These are our motives. The silence and the like, I don't know what to call it, this philosophical, short, clear and incorrect exposition of my colleague from the ruling majority only strengthens us in our belief that the whole law is only meant to be fog, that we allegedly brought him in, but he won't solve anything. No opposition amendment has been accepted. This is one of the few laws in which at least the small correction of the opposition, at least because of cosmetics, has not been accepted. All of this, the only exposure of the ruling majority MPs is that it explains that it is good for some badge-holder (to be opened - G17 plus a badge) to be headed by a directive that will have property worth dozens or hundreds of millions of euros. You haven't accepted a public competition, you're explaining that it has to be a party member, we don't believe that the director of that Directorate will work in the best interests of the citizens... (President: five minutes. )......................................................................................................... I'm sorry, just one sentence... that they will only work in the best interests of their own parties, not even the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4069	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Ostojić and Ivan Andric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4070	Dear Vice-Presidents, colleagues and fellow Members, in line with what we are talking about today in order to correct this law, to give our contribution to the departisation of the state administration, we think that this director should be subject to the Law of Conflict of Interest. What's so controversial about that? It is that some regulations on state administration speak about conflict of interest and regulate the area, but all that the predecessor, counterpart Andric, has said, we believe it is necessary to apply the provisions of the law and other regulations governing the issue of conflict of interest, given the great powers he has under the law. You don't want to choose to compete, you want to be a member of the party and not apply the Law of Conflict of Interest. I said, some property is being taken, an investigation is going on, it's easily broken goods, it's going on a tender. When I say abuse, I mean a set-up tender. Information's a commodity, information's worth it. Something that sucks is published in the papers, and something that's worth it, the privileged know, it's published in some kind of newspaper. We are no longer with Montenegro, but I do know the practice that many important tenders have been published in the bar newspapers, as it was then written in the law that newspapers should be on the territory of the state. Erem, and this amendment of ours is about us trying to break down that party state. Because, you know what, we had one party state, it was a one-party state, but this is a border that even the communists didn't cross when it came to negative selection. They didn't want, how can I say, to put a faithful member as a water manager, so that he could destroy the water line, because then they had damage too. If it was a dilemma: an incompetent member of the party or a capable expert at some level, the expert was given the advantage. What did we get with the multiparty system? We got a multiparty state. But there is one worse consequence of one-party – negative selection no longer has a limit. We know that from previous governments. Let's just think of one party that won, say, the airport, or JAT, because the airport is another story, so what happened. That is why we think that this amendment is consistent with what we want to achieve in the revision of this law, because we really want it and we think that the Government could think about it one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4071	Anyone else want a word? The breach of the Rules of Procedure wishes to point out MP Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4072	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I am reporting by a member by whom I very rarely report, which is Article 226, not in the intention of distracting the Assembly, but in order to inform the Assembly of one important issue. We had a meeting of the Education Committee at 12:00 today. However, only at the point of various things, although I wanted it to be a regular point, but I was not accepted, we discussed amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, specifically the amendment submitted by Mrs. Jorga and which the Government accepted. I have pointed out that the problem with this amendment is that it puts students who are on the budget and students who are self-financed. Namely, after lowering the scale to 42, then 48 points, etc., the consequences of the amendment are that all students who are on the budget and win 42 points remain on the budget, and that those who are not on the budget are still ranked, so it can happen, and it is very likely that it will happen in colleges that have a large number of self-financing students, that someone must continue to self-finance even though, for example, there are 58 or even 60 points. There's mostly social science colleges. No wonder there are now political science students on the street. I know that the talks of one of their delegations with Mrs. Jorge take place. I don't know what the outcome of those conversations will be. A group of those students talked, asked for a conversation with me, as chairman of the Education Committee. I believe that we finally have to make such rules of the game, although it cannot be done immediately with these amendments and the addition of the law, so that they are extremely simple in the following sense: the first year is the first year of the exam, or the third year of the exam, for who is on the budget, and who is not; the second year is the measured result that the students achieved in the first year, and the third year of the result that they achieved in the previous year, and so on. It's the only way everyone puts themselves in an even position and what's probably in the interest of all of us, as well as students -- that one game is constantly opening, and not that someone who once started to study in the budget is, as I say, a protected white bear, and everyone else is permanently pushed into paying for their own education. It's not just a question of paying tuition, but other benefits are related to student homes, loans, many other things. I must admit that, as chairman of the Committee, I spoke to Minister Obradovic and Mrs Jorge and some other members of the Committee yesterday. Unfortunately, I failed to convince them that it was necessary for the Committee to come out with some amendment, or for Mrs. Jorga to withdraw her amendment. Of course, what happened to the students now happened. I'm afraid this isn't the end. Once again, I apologize for interrupting the discussion on the point, but I think it was necessary for me to tell this to the Assembly. I apologize again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4073	I understand, regardless of the call, that you know that Article 140, last position, allows the Committee to submit amendments until the start of the law in particular, i.e. there is a business possibility that this will be until the opening of a search in the details of the agenda point on which you gave the information. Does anyone want a word after the amendment? There is a word from MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4074	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer to that discussion that was about the Director and the Director's salaries in public enterprises to gain some insight into the situation we are in. I think you remember that this data has already been delivered once and that the Management Board has launched its own initiative in time to find out what the salaries of the directors of public enterprises, the chairman of the boards of directors, boards of directors, the chairman of the Supervisory Boards and members of the Supervisory Boards are. I was reporting this information and you could come to a simple conclusion that today's situation in Serbia is disastrous on this issue. You've got party personnel moving around in public enterprises. Public undertakings are obtained on the basis of agreements between the ruling parties; these are the feuds which are followed by party members whose head is the public undertaking and the state property is being harassed. Archi is simply decided that these public enterprises are privatized at a certain time and treat them as if they were Alajbeg's straw - take it now, the question is how long they will last and we are no longer interested in anything. It's just amazing what the salaries of the director of public enterprises are. Let me remind you, I'll start reading to you just to get the data out: the director of Elektroprivreda Serbia at the time, so that's a year ago, he had 297,740 dinars, chairman of the Management Board 94,422 dinars, members of the Management Board from 56,000 to 34,000, chairman of the Supervisory Board 45,000, members of the Supervisory Board 37,000 to 30,000. Look, when you add it all up and multiply it by 12 months, what are millions of sums in just one company. Who's paying for it? Citizens of Belgrade. You remember all those calls to the MPs, to the salaries, how much the Assembly costs and so on, and they, party listeners, who get a reward of seats on boards, directors' seats, presidents, members, etc., spend a lot of money, and no answer. Watch out, "Electromontage of Serbia": Director 289,000 deputy directors 140, chairman of the Management Board 91,000, members from 50,000 to 27,000, chairman of the Supervisory Board 45,000, members from 31,000 to 22,000, and times the number of board members, and then the Supervisory Board, and times 12 months. Just look at these two public companies how big that money is. In the Serbians, which has now increased the price by 60%, the director then had 287,000, deputy 223,000, assistant director 170,000, chairman of the Management Board 279,000, members of 60,000, chairman of the Supervisory Board 80,000, members of the Supervisory Board 40,000. These are the amazing figures that are arched by the parties that have reached the authorities and whose sole purpose this is. They're not interested in any law. It's all stories for little kids. They simply want the time they are in power to take advantage of the limits to make themselves rich and enable their members to make themselves rich. Nothing to anyone. You all know about this data. There may be some among you who don't know, but, behold, I'm taking this out another time, and there's no reaction from the ruling majority. Maybe there's a rabbit in there, which is why you don't want to change the head of the Administrative Board, because this question is no longer mentioned. For what? Why does he care about this? This is the information available to all members of the Administrative Board. It is normal for the President's initiative to launch the debate, because we, among other things, have requested this data to be discussed. The public company Transnafta -- director of 287,000, chairman of the Management Board 65,000, members of 50,000, chairman of the Supervisory Board 44,000, members of 33,000. Well, just multiply it by the number, then by 12, so you'll see. "Serbishum" - 165,000, deputy director of 128,000, chairman of the Management Board 71,000. When will the board president stop anything for this kind of money? He's not interested in anything, he's a representative of the same party he's in; nice, as they say, they finish the job, every month in his pocket, they travel a little bit more, they have fun. You've had a chance to hear them spend that money. Tara National Park: 71,000 - Director, Chairman of the Management Board - 15,000. They're not much of a salary here. Fruska Gora National Park - 65,000; Gerdap National Park - 53,000; Kopalnik National Park - 69,000. Public water company "Serbia" - 62,000. The Serbian Broadcasting Institute, RTS - 255,000, chairman of the Board of Directors, 134,000, has 80% less vice president. National news agency Tanjug - 132,000. "Official Messenger" - 274,000. It's that messenger where you've filed a criminal case against the director. Look at the salary he had - 274,000. "Serb Railways" - 135,000, chairman of the board of directors 104,000, vice president 81.000. The public company PTT traffic "Serbia" - 256.000, chairman of the Management Board 182,000. Telecom Serbia - 220, president of the Management Board 200,000, vice president of 166,000. Guys, where's your soul going? It's all, every penny, from the citizens of Serbia. They didn't earn that money because they were able, because some of their actions and work in the company, through the work of the public company, made this kind of pay possible, but because they are public enterprises and therefore have a monopoly and can in such a way spend money, among other things, on this kind of salary. "Nikola Tesla" Airport -- at the time, a salary of 382,000 was reported for the director. Meanwhile, as we had the chance to hear, she jumped. One more thing, according to some of my information, some of this data isn't true, are false data for at least two public companies. I'm not going to speak until I get the exact information, but you've had a chance to read in the paper that the salaries are in some public enterprises and up to 10,000 euros. You see what the number is. That's eight million. Eight million salaries from one of the directors of a public company! Jat Airways - 348,000, deputy director of 142,000, chairman of the Management Board 77,000, members of 51,000. Public firm "Storage" - 110,000. You know how to do business with those shelters? They don't serve the purpose for which they're built, they're issued for a warehouse space, and there's the most corruption there, because, among other things, part of it works through an account and part of it works in cash. And you know it. I know you know, but I'm talking about the citizens of Serbia and those MPs who don't know. Public ski resort company - director 176.000. You G17, do you have a soul, my people? This goes beyond any possible limit. The chairman of the board of directors 95,000, members of 83,000, chairman of the Supervisory Board 80,000 linearly, so as not to complain, so as not to object. Republic Water Directorate - 122,000. Directorate for dimensions and precious metals - 126.000. Republic Stock Reserve Directorate - 126.000, chairman of the board of directors of 94,000. They didn't send us information for every public company, I only read the data we got. Environmental Protection Agency - 123,000. Republic Property Directorate - 33,000, Deputy Director 118.000, Chairman of the Management Board 93,000. Agency for the Development of Local Self-Government Infrastructure - 135.000. Foreign Investment Agency - 68,000. Agency for Internal Waterways - 33,000. Recycling agency - 147,000 dinars. The Republic Agency for the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes - only 13,000. It's modest. The deputy only has 118,000. Railway Directorate - 131,000, deputy 120,000, chairman of the Management Board 98,000, deputy 96,000. Privatisation Agency - 284,000. Business Registers Agency - 237,000, Chairman of the Management Board 37,000, members of 30,000. Agency for Licensing Bank Managers - 173,000, Chairman of the Management Board 40,000, members of 35,000. Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices - 119.000. The public company "The Ways of Serbia" - 144,000. Flight control agency: 466,000 - director and his deputy 428.000. Listen to these figures: Chairman of the Management Board 466.936, Vice-President 428,000, members of 166,000. My people, is it possible that this kind of salary is in certain public enterprises? What do you think? You're passing a law that will take property that has been acquired in an illegal manner. You pass the law, and what will you do with this property of Serbian citizens that you brutally rob in this way? When are you gonna get in the way of this first? When are you going to pass the law for this? You are unable to reach a common conclusion on the Management Board because it is not in your best interest. That's the basic motive. Your motive for conquering power is the abuse of power and the merciless devastation of this country and the citizens of Serbia. This is the best evidence that you do it all the time and you don't think of changing anything in the way you work. This is your goal, and therefore, among other things, you do not allow change to take place at the head of the Administrative Board, because you have one you conduct in remote and therefore it is your responsibility to continue robbing Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4075	Anyone else want a word about the amendment? I'm setting a break by 3:10 p.m. We begin the afternoon session with a discussion on details, with an amendment to Article 23, which was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Thank you. [[After break – 15/15]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4077	I will explain this amendment briefly, because it will not significantly change the essence of the law, but it speaks of one inaccuracies in Article 23 where a conditional-contractual sentence is used, as an inserted sentence, and it refers to the proxies – if there is one. The same shall be repeated in Article 31. First, it is understood, although the law requires nothing to be understood, but to be explicitly said and emphasized, therefore, the power of attorney will only be brought if he has one, as well as the defender. If he's not here, he can't bring him. Those words in the text are unnecessary, they burden him needlessly. But if they have already been used and no amendment has been accepted to delete those words, then I suggest that the Proposer only correct one spelling, grammatical error: in front and behind the inserted sentence, conditional-contractual, "if there is one" must stand stuck because it is a spelling rule and makes the law more written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4078	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4079	To me, this amendment is a reason for me to inform the public of certain things that may be problematic if such a law arises, I cannot say adopt or adopt, but rather if it is voted. For moments, and there's some experience, I just feel like we're talking to the wall. We killed ourselves talking, explaining, looking for some reasons why it was necessary to accept the amendment, what needs to be changed to make the law possible, feasible, normal, constitutional, etc. And then we have a wall of silence. Of course, this does not apply to the lady who is present here on behalf of the government, to her all praise for what she is doing, because she is very responsible for accessing this business. To say something about this amendment, I'm going to make a little introduction. You have made a concept that you have a special directorate that will take care of the property because the courts are unable to do so. Aging on property that is in any way the subject of a criminal offence, even if it is an property benefit that has been achieved by a criminal act, these property-care business, whether it's paperwork in terms of writing down certain prohibitions or in fact, to put things somewhere, to be a warehouse where they'll be kept, etc... Depending on which measures and actions are carried out, the security and protection of assets and assets until the end of the criminal proceedings, you entrusted them to the Directorate, if I may say so, to a special management organisation, according to an old nomenclature. The problem is that for agencies, directorates and general administrative organisations, if they are part of a state body, which is the ministry, you have taken that concept, the question of whether they can be legal persons. What's characteristic of a legal person is that he can also be the bearer of some rights and obligations with his own property. If the ministry doesn't have a legal personality, how is it possible that its organisational part has a legal personality? You know, when a police car does some damage, I took the most banal example, the Republic of Serbia is sued, because it has a legal personality. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's how it's been since the century, God, and so on. You're now creating a situation to say - the directorate that takes care of this confiscated property has a legal personality. How is it possible for a legal person to be part of something that has no legal personality status? It is inappropriate to make comparison between Serbia and Kosovo, but let's see. The question is, what does the Directorate answer as a legal person? She can match the property. What property, how does she fit? Can the Directorate be more suitable than the Ministry can be? You can formally sue the Department of Justice for some act which has caused some damage, but you do not sue the Republic of Serbia. You've made one impossible option here. You've raised the directorate to the level of participants in legal life, with the status of an independent participant in legal life, and it's in something that's not in legal life. That's impossible. I have to go back to the central issue. All this has to do with the amendment, Mrs. Gold, you understand what I'm talking about. Why does it matter? That directorate takes care of the property. She can manage and use that property, but she can't afford it, and you wrote in one of the members of your bill that the directorate was competent, so you counted the jobs, so you listed management and availability. The availability means that it is authorised and that it sells; it is, but it can only do so on the basis of the court's decision and cannot exercise jurisdiction on its own. If you've made a directorate as an administrative body, it eminently does administrative work, something that's a administrative matter. I see there are a lot of lawyers here who understand what I'm talking about. We don't have classic administrative jobs here. Ageing property, taking care of movable things, taking care of immovable things isn't administrative business. Now I am going back to what I said at the beginning of this morning, which were the motives and goals that were to be achieved by this bill – that the simple court should be free of those jobs that it cannot do. The court can't take care of the property, whether it's a criminal offence or property, it doesn't matter at this point. Why? It does not have resources, it does not even have such powers in Serbia's material or procedural legislation. I'm going back to what I said at the beginning. You made the wrong concept. This wrong concept makes this bill, if you adopt it like this, impossible creation. You're not going to solve any of the problems you went into this project for. I'm telling you again, I know what the initial concept was. The initial concept was exactly what I just said: criminal legislation to work up, criminally-process and form an organ that only takes care of property and has no other authority. What do you mean, she's getting old? So that it doesn't fail until the process is over, and when the process of budgeting is over, there's some funding. A little simplistic, but basically it comes down to it. Now you've inserted in great provisions of trivial importance, and even legal fact, and even cohesion, which will create further confusion. In the first concept, it is planned that the directorate has only ten employees, ten workers who will keep records of it, in the Municipality Court of Pirot there is this, in the municipal court there is this, that it will be, in practice, one register of lists and property that is in some way in an undefined position, whether it is taken away, whether it is not taken away, whether it is temporarily taken away, when the time will come to be permanently taken away or when it should be returned if criminal prosecution has been misappropriated. Why am I saying all this? I'm saying this because someone doesn't feel like someone's protecting themselves with this kind of discussion. No, I don't. Criminals should not be protected, convicts should not be protected if there is evidence that the result is a crime and this. But whoever the snake burns, he's afraid of the lizard. A law like this, with such provisions, provides great opportunities for natural abuses of these rights and duties. You can't answer that. To make that clear, I'll take an example of what Mr. Todorovic did this morning. He read us reports on how personal the receipts of individual officials in the public enterprises of the Republic of Serbia were received while he was chairman of the Administrative Committee. You've heard these terrible amounts, several times higher and than these greatest parliamentary wages, not to be a part of the order. From the point of view of the law, it's all legal. They don't fall under the influence of this law. From the point of view, if I can use the word, morale, from the point of view of justifying the results of the work, because of these older people, to understand that, from the perspective of the market value of work, these wages are unwarranted and are the result of some settlements. What Mr. Todorovic said is true for everyone; you have misunderstood that this applies to the Democratic Party, it refers to everyone who has been in power since 2000 until today. It wasn't like that in 2000, it wasn't that much pay. There were several people who had such high wages, you successfully prosecuted them and they're at large. Yes, the crow won't take his eyes out. He doesn't believe it. He's hungry. He doesn't believe it. There's no need to put a finger on our forehead now, like some bolognas who graduated a few days ago. You know everything. There's no need to hide. That's why I said, from the point of view of the regulations, these are legitimate salaries, from the point of view of the results of the work, the market value of the work, and even if we're going to talk about some morality, that should change. But in that case, it has been shown that someone legally can earn more than a criminal. There, that's it. You know, Djelic, in two and a half years as an opposition politician, not even an MP, with his aunt's temporary stay, earned eleven and a half million euros. By all Western criteria, by all materialistic views of life, he's very successful, he's achieved an American dream, he's made himself rich overnight, with one of his abilities. But from the point of view of something that belongs to Byzantium, which is the Republic of Serbia and what we live here, as we understand life, in this system of harmony and symphony, it's absolutely immoral. Latin cunning cannot pass in Serbia. Byzantium lucidity runs over it. That's to be clear. There is also an answer to these problems of yours in that connection. These are some of the things you're going to explain to the motionary's representative what this is all about. With this amendment, the lady tried to correct something that shouldn't stand, because if the power of attorney is written, now I'm going back to Mrs. Golden's amendment, then it turns out that the man who wrote this bill doesn't know the Code of Criminal Procedure. That's how I interpreted your amendment. But your amendment gave me reason to talk about where he was damaged as a person over whom a crime was committed, a person, his property, doesn't matter, where is he with his rights? Where's his priority? He's gone. He's gone because the wrong concept of the law is a completely wrong concept of the law: selective access to criminal acts, selective access to perpetrators. To remind you again of something that should never stand in one law: that you stated in Article 3 under point 2) means that everyone must prove innocence because guilt is assumed. You said: "The property of the criminal property is considered to be the property of the accused, the witness of an associate, or the leaver, which is obviously disproportionate to his lawful incomes. "There are many elements within this definition, the execution of a crime, the achievement of the elements of the former crime, etc.; then you have unlawfully defined something as the difference between something there and what it might have in the natural course of things, which is science fiction. This is from the time of the second Tito - unfounded wealth or the illegal security of some funds, so people had to go to the income management, a special authority, to prove why they bought a car, what money they bought a car with, etc. This initial definition shows how wrong this is, because the property that came from the crime must be related to the crime, not that the basis for its evaluation is in legal revenues. Take, for example, that someone, for example, from Flight Control, don't God forbid, committed a crime and that some property was created from that crime. Taking his legal income, you've reduced his illegally acquired assets based on a felony. But if the same crime was committed by someone who works in another public enterprise, where monthly incomes are 50,000 dinars, you made a big difference to him and as an illegally acquired profit, income based on crime, etc. Your definition is wrong, absolutely wrong and allows for volunteering, arbitraryness. You're forcing the prosecutor, the officer, the judge to evaluate. Based on what? You're welcome. They told him -- go ahead and judge for yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4080	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Then, National MP Donka Banovic, the same basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4081	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a scandalous court decision has been taken in the Kragujevac District Court today, on the basis of the attached documentation and after a session of the Kragujevac City Assembly, on Friday refused to return ten parliamentary mandates to the Serbian Radical Party. I note that the president of the court council is a certain Radovan Nikolic. I must point out that the President of the District Court in Kragujevac, Mr. Tomic, is a home friend and personal friend of Tomislav Nikolic. I must point out that because of the "mafiaslušak" of this, I challenged Tomic, as well as Mr Krasic, a number of years ago his election as District Court President and as a challenge was elected by the Dossov authorities. I must also point out that this is a classic political decision by the court, which in a specific case, made for a legal team of Serbian radical experts in the Serbian Parliament building, a ridiculous decision that resulted in the court not wanting to comply with the law, just like the Kragujevac City Assembly on Friday, when it was proposed to replace the ten parliamentary mandates of the Serbian Radical Party on the basis of a unanimous decision by the City Election Commission and the Committee on the Capital-Immunity Issues. This decision, or what is written, without legal instruction for the applicant, in this case is the president of the Kragujeva Radicals and the council of the city, Mr Dragan Zikic, is the first such case in Serbia. Because of the fact that in Belgrade, Zrenjanin, Sombor, Sremska Mitrovica, Smederev, Zajecar, today in Nis, the district courts did so in the manner in which Article 49 prescribed it. The law on local elections, it is quite clear that this is a legally unfounded decision by the court, which in response to which Mr Zikic's appeal is rejected as an administrative authority and did not enter into the measure of the legal matter, in this case in the fact that, under the Law on Local Elections, the Serbian Radical Party, as the applicant of the electoral list and as the owner of the term of office in the Kragujevac City Assembly, has certified impeachable resignations, contracts and powers for the applicant of the electoral list. All of this was determined by the City Assembly, i.e. the competent authorities, the City Election Commission and the mandate-immunity committee. counterpart Mirko Cikiriz of the Serbian Renewal Movement was a committee member until Friday at the Kragujevac City Assembly. I'll finish, Mrs. Comic. His submitee of the election list he was elected on, the lists for European Serbia, also submitted his resignation to the Kragujevac City Assembly several days after our application, also in accordance with Article 47. The law, to his council seat. The congregation of the town of Kragujevac was run by double arches. Mr. Chiquiriz's resignation has been established. An MP has been elected from the Electoral List "Together", i.e. for European Serbia, Mr Rajic of the Serbian Renewal Movement and Serbian Radicals voted for it. This is the most embarrassing thing that has happened recently in the Serbian judiciary and there really is a direct link, I stand responsible for it, Tomislav Nikolic and the president of the Kragujeva District Court, Radomer Tomic. It is clear to everyone and we will do everything to protect the law, the Constitution and protect the parliamentary mandates. Be assured that it will never happen that those who are not members of the Serbian Radical Party sit in the Kragujevac City Assembly. Such sessions will not be held by the City of Kragujevac Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4082	I understand there was no damage to the Rules of Procedure. It can be looked at in a stenogram, the MP said she would appeal to members 226 and 225, and it was not said for a pay phone. So there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and the practical word was given without foundation. The word has a folk MP, Donka Banovic, wants to point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1). Please do not abuse the Rules of Procedure beyond what we have a more or less silent agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4083	Dear fellow Members of the People, Ms Komic, I appeal to Members 226 and 225 - the MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the exercise of the function of the MP. Also, I'm protesting this intervention of yours. I don't think I'm a person, if it was directed to me, who abuses the Rules of Procedure with no measure and no measure, no measure, so I don't understand why you told me. I'm advertising this member because today you've all heard that in front of the Assembly (I think you heard you were in the O.R.) was a protest of 200-300 students, perhaps even more. Anyway, I know traffic was blocked for an hour. I don't know if you know that it was a session of the Education Committee at the time. I think the students tried to let the members of the Committee and the MPs know there was one problem, which is to amend and supplement the Higher Education Act, which we discussed in principle last week... You remember these changes and additions that decrease, lowers the number of points for enrollment in the next study year from 60 points to 42. I suppose the minister of education respected the suggestions of KONUS, because they were their suggestions to cut students from 60 points to 42, in order to enroll more students next year. In the meantime, however, an amendment was made by Mrs. Jagoda Jorga. The amendment dramatically changes and changes and complements by discriminating students who are on the budget and students we call self-financed. In fact, Ms. Jorge's intervention, which I think she didn't have an evil intention, and I don't even think she might have thought of what the consequences of this amendment would have, which the Minister of Education adopted, and first of all, he should have thought very carefully about what would happen, the students who have been on the budget so far when they meet that 42-point quota automatically next student year, they don't all have that option, at least they don't have all. So, every college autonomously determines how many students will be on the budget, so it can happen, and it will probably happen if we adopt such changes and the additions of the law, that the student who is on the budget and won 42 points is still funded from the budget, and the student who is self-financed and has 60 points, which showed a much better quality during the study, had better grades, so he met that threshold, won't be able to finance from the budget. Please, if we're making this kind of discrimination, we're starting to demote students to learn. The question is, since I know that a group of students, a few, spoke to MPs from the Democratic Party, I want to be informed about what they discussed and did they agree to withdraw this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4084	People's MPs, I haven't spoken to you, I'm sorry for the misunderstanding. What I said concerns all the MPs, us 250, regarding the use and abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the receipt of words, that we should respect some kind of silent agreement that we have. As for the subject of which you spoke, the information was shared with us by Parliament's Committee of Enlightenment Chairman Zoran Shami during the morning session, about which you can make an insight into the stenogram. The only thing I can do is remind you, like him, of the final position of a member of the 140th Education Committee, which leaves you the possibility of opening a debate in particular on the law that is on the agenda of another amendment. It was also a question of whether anyone was talking to the students. The representatives of the students were discussed by authorised representatives and presidents of the parliamentary groups, as well as by the chairman of the Assembly's Education Committee. All of this will be reported in good time until the opening of the debate in detail on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. The word has been given by MP Aleksandar Pejcic, utters a violation of the Rules of Procedure and receives a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4085	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, the President-in-Office, I am reporting in accordance with Articles 225 and 226. To the address of the DSS parliamentary group came dozens of telegrams of concerned students who are just talking about this problem. In fact, Mrs. Jagoda Jorge's amendment has led to destruction. Students who have demonstrated precisely because of this amendment all the time are so-called. self-financed students, as my predecessor, Mrs. Donka Banovic, spoke of. In this way, the ruling majority showed that there are two arches. Namely, a law that is good adapts to something that is not good. We at the DSS want to point out to the ruling majority that we need to withdraw this amendment to Mrs. Jagoda Jorge, and we hope that the elementary rights of students will be protected. This amendment discriminates against students' rights. Since Serbia is famous for a country with the smallest number of academic citizens, I think the Ministry of Education will withdraw this amendment and we will adopt this law without this amendment. Thank you. By the way, am I asking if the Minister of Education will withdraw this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4086	National MP, the minister cannot withdraw from the procedure an amendment he has not submitted. I really ask that we use the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a little bit more carefully. The amendment may be withdrawn only by the applicant of the amendment, either by one or a group of MPs or by any of the authorised applicants of the amendment. A moment ago, your fellow MP, Donka Banovic, asked the same question as the chairman of the Assembly Committee for Education, MP Zoran Shami. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in the final position of the members of the 140th, allow the Education Committee to submit an amendment by the start of the debate in particular, and to inform you of the talks held by the representatives of the students with the authorised representatives and presidents of the parliamentary groups when that point is on the agenda. Please remember that there's a member of 103 that's talking about being able to talk about a point that's on the agenda. Amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act are on the agenda and we will have a debate on this. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. He's looking for a word for the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets it on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4087	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that judicial reform must be carried out immediately, without delay. Unequal court practice, ladies and gentlemen, leads us to hopelessness. If one regulation is applied differently from one court to another court, it is not in accordance with the legal order. This could not happen in Germany, England, France, or any other country -- to rule on the same facts and on the same legal relations and legal matters differently. The Belgrade District Court's decision was to serve as an example to other congregations and district courts in the Republic of Serbia. This is one of the negative examples that will follow our judiciary. This decision by the District Court in Kragujevac enters the history of legal science and the history of the professional public. When it comes to what happened in Kragujevac, it is obvious that it is pressure and intervention in relation to making such a decision. The decision is therefore evidence, over 20 decisions by Serbia's district courts is also one of the evidence. This is where our judiciary applies different legal standards. If there are 20 judgments of the district courts, it is true of the judicate and should be considered a uniform caselaw. Since I went out and asked Mrs. Comic to chair, I am taking the opportunity to ask a question and ask the minister of justice of the Republic of Serbia: since when do our courts work, what is their working time? Do you know what time of the court is? Do you know what the time of the counter service is? You have a situation like this in practice: they come at nine and go at one. In Belgrade, it is certified and mail reception is done on counters by half past four. I don't want to appoint courts, but I'm asking you for a notice and that of all the presidents of the municipal... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... and trade courts request a report from when to when the citizens have the right to go to the counter to verify a contract, a statement or to hand over a certain submission. It is a serious problem in the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the judiciary. That's why I'm asking for an answer as to how it's regulated in the Rules of Procedure, because I have the knowledge that it's not respected, that in some courts citizens are received for up to an hour, and in some courts the actual working time is applied... (President: Four minutes. )......................................................................................................... which is prescribed. I'm sorry. That's why citizens have damages and can't do their jobs. Imagine if a citizen comes from Saturday to Belgrade or Panchevo, goes 200-300 km, to verify the contract, and the counterman tells him - we're working within an hour, sorry, we can't accept you, goodbye. Does that make sense? (President: National MP, four minutes and 30 seconds. If the working hours are from half past eight to half four and if they're looking for wages... The administration is underpaid, it's true; in any case, citizens have to exercise their rights and they still need to be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4088	I ask you to finish and that, if we are calling for respect for the time in the courts, we respect the Rules of Procedure for the time required for the request and the desire to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, which is three minutes, not four minutes and 30 seconds. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. He wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and he gets his word on article 100. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure in the previous speech, the MP received a word without a basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4089	I'm calling for a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and on the presentation of Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic. First, to be clear, the position of the SPO is that the party is the owner of the mandate. The SPO also respects the constitutional provision expressed in free will by both MPs and committees that they can make their mandate available to the political party and that there should be no so-called flaws of will - no delusions, no fraud, no coercion. I, in agreement with my political party, asked for my blank resignation to be activated after the election as a MP and that a man who received 30% of the votes of his fellow citizens, because he deserves it, and I, along with the post of MP, cannot do the job of a councilman in the City Assembly well. I asked the Assembly to accept my resignation and told the councils of the Kragujevac City Assembly that in my case there was no flaw in will, no delusion, no fraud, no coercion. To fully clarify the political part: The Kragujevac City Assembly has most of the 63 council members and I think it is the most stable local self-government in the country. For the congregation majority, it takes 44 votes. There was no political reason or motive for the ruling majority in Kragujevac to potentially strengthen the assembly majority for some ten new council members. The congregation of the town of Kragujevac, following written statements by the SRS board that they had made their blank resignations under duress, was not authorized, but only the court was authorised to determine whether there was coercion in the particular case. Therefore, at the meeting of the chairman of the committee clubs, the ruling majority decided to refrain from being set up. What would be the likeness of this debate if the City Assembly determined whether there were coercions in particular in ten cases? The Kragujevac District Court's decision, which I respect more, cannot be interpreted because I don't have complete case files, but I think I've made it clear enough to state my political party's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4090	You've called for a breach of Article 104. By listening to the presentation of the People's Parliament, Natasha Jovanovic and your exposure, I do not see that there has been a breach of Article 104. She did not present any other information, except that you resigned and that a new committee was elected by the candidate of the election list for the Council of the City of Kragujevac. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. After him, the People's MP Zoran Krasic has the word, and the National MP Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4091	I will speak with regard to Article 225, to inform the Assembly that it is not only six others, but four new committee members have preserved their mandates thanks to a reasonable decision by the District Court. We also want to confirm what it was really forced to do in the whole signing act and why we gave statements to withdrawing consent due to coercion. It's a duress when someone takes you to court to sign, and you haven't even verified your mandate. If you don't sign it, you won't even enter the City Hall so you can verify your mandates. Any more obvious? Here's a chance for you to stand out, excuse me, to shut them up. [[Sagar.]] Maybe calm them down a little bit. (President: I ask the People's MPs not to receive and to listen to the speaker talking about the injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) You can take it easy a little bit, understand that coercion, gossiping of judges influences the work of the judiciary. The interpretation of who's friends, all the stunts you've learned to work slowly fall into the water. Unprincipled action, threats, it slowly melts like an iceberg. What do we do to you, how did you do, so did you. I'm not going into discussion with you. - Galama. ) (President: I ask the People's MPs not to receive and to honor the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to report to the public that all ten mandates in the Kragujevac City Assembly have been preserved, that these are honorable judges, whose decisions we have said that when they are made, whatever they are, we will respect them. We respect their courage to make these decisions, and we marvel at your growing primitiveism and indelicate and intolerant behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4092	I ask those who feel that they have the right to receive their word and to speak of harming the Rules of Procedure not to violate the Rules of Procedure and not to receive a speaker who is on the same basis as they have received the word. All MPs here are equal in rights and duties. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The previous speaker had no basis for getting word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4093	Mrs. Comic, you and I understand each other best. That's nice to meet you. That's why I have a discount when I go out for this pay phone, because you know you can hear a lot of new things when I get out. You see, Mrs. Comic, I listened to both you and Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic and the Serbian Radical Party took advantage of the legal path -- on Monday she filed a lawsuit against Tomislav Nikolic and a bank, not to mention the name, to determine that he never concluded the contract, that he had taken over some private commitments, so we ask that it be consolidated. I'm providing you with evidence to see that such people don't need much to be trusted. Here you go, Mrs. Comic. (The emissary gives the chairman's paper. There you go. I was a little valuable this morning, so I also wrote a criminal report against Tomislav Nikolic, but you're interpreting that he was against all those there, and the one who ran the computer on his honeymoon... I can't get involved in a debate with my predecessor, because this was a debate about whether to use a coleston four or a five. I can't do that. You know it's serious stuff. Of course, we have filed criminal charges against Tomislav Nikolic because there is strong suspicion that he has committed the crime of destroying the official record in Article 328(1). The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia and that it committed a criminal offence of abuse of official office. So I followed your instructions. Here you go. (The emissary gives the chairman's paper. ) But, Mrs. Comić, that you may not be mistaken when you give a word and, unfortunately, you present them as if they were someone and something, although my predecessor has presented himself as a councilman, there is a former councilman, but he is also a former MP, I also deliver to you something that is rightly treated generally. These are newspaper articles where the recognition of the group is that they are not the ones to be in the National Assembly, please. (The emissary gives the chairman's paper. ) I would ask you to study it well and inform the public, Mrs. Komic, that because the public is not informed judges do not make mistakes. Here, you see, that these judges in Kragujevac were in time informed of the court practice in most of the courts in the Republic of Serbia, then this situation, which was interpreted by someone in the system of error... You know, when you talk about legal delusion, when you talk about pressures, threats and ignorance, you are young MPs, you are not forward enough, you are used here by Gašo Knezevic, Stevan Lilić, Dragor Hiber, professors of Law School. Faculty of Law professors, when they have no argument for something at the border of morality, they call for legal error and other things. The situation is clear and clear, and unless judges in the Republic of Serbia return this to the previous state, the normal state, we will have to initiate criminal proceedings for violations of the law by judges. (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. ) Mrs. Comic, just two seconds away from this, I ask you to inform the public about what legal practice is, what are the views of the courts, starting with the Belgrade District Court and beyond, as the mandates return, so that this group does not cheat and drag them into what Boris Tadic has dragged into the neck.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4094	And MP Zoran Krasic got the word without a basis, since it was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. As for the direct proposal to notify the public of any information, I can only inform the public about the data relating to the course of the National Assembly session, concerning the rights and duties of the MPs and concerning the information that the MPs need to carry out their work during the session of the National Assembly that I chair. The word has a national MP, Milica Radovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, based on Article 100(1). After that, the right to a replica, based on article 101, and with regard to the presentation of MP Mirko Cikiriz, has a national MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4095	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Rules of Procedure, Articles 225 and 226. I'm sorry, I've never reported by these members, but I think it's an extremely important question that requires an adequate answer. I request a notice from the vice president of the National Assembly on the outcome of the talks that were held today in the National Assembly building with the representatives of the students. For public reasons, I would just like to inform the public that a protest meeting of students outside the National Assembly was held today, and students protested the amendments of the ruling coalition of Ms. Jagoda Jorge. This amendment, which was tabled on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, has made one rough, huge mistake that puts self-financed students and students who are financed from the budget, in that it makes it absolutely impossible for self-financing students to obtain the status of students who are financed from the budget, no matter how much they learn, no matter how many exams they give, no matter how many points they collect. To make things clear, we can theoretically get into a situation where a self-financed student can collect 60 points and be denied the status of a student who is financed from the budget. I also want to inform the public that this amendment, unfortunately, has been accepted by the government and has become an integral part of the text of the law. It's about an extremely bad amendment. We demand an answer to this question – what will continue to happen, will the government continue to stay on this, given that students, according to our information, will not stop their protests? For the matter to be even worse, for this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Higher Education, a consensus has been reached, according to my information, by all MPs in parliament. By adopting this amendment, it is likely to change significantly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4096	The People's Parliament has no basis for breach of the Rules of Procedure. Several MPs, the chairman of the Assembly Committee for Education, MP Zoran Shami, MP Donka Banovic, MP Aleksandar Pejcic, addressed the same speech and two of them and the question, as you did, and I repeat the explanation. Today, representatives of students and authorised representatives, presidents of parliamentary groups, met. All interested MPs will be informed of the outcome of the conversation in good time. Article 140, last position, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly allow you to convene a session of the Assembly Committee on Education, whose National MP is Zoran Shami, and that on the basis of the agreement that has been made, if it is made, you will be informed of this in good time before the debate is opened in detail on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education is held. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Replica, based on Article 101, to present MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4097	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that I have answered the replica of my colleague, Chiquirizu. You don't think I'm going to rephrase some of the individuals here, the "section of persuasions" that are painted and who are unemployed, certain citizens, whatever they are called, like that unfortunate Poscurica, who was indeed one of the biggest workers in the history of the SRS, when he was an MP and a member of the SRS. Mr. Chikiriz, I want to warn you about something you said, which simply can't be true, it can be in thought; I know it isn't, you're a decent man, I know it isn't, but you're also the vice president of the SPO, so where would you... In the end, Mr Draskovic said a few days ago – Toma is a goat, not a tiger. You know, to hang a goat around a tiger's neck, it can't possibly. Wolf Draskovic was right. And so you know that one lie, and it's repeatedly repeated, can't be true, because in this case, not that there wasn't any pressure, but the law doesn't know it either. You say the Kragujevac City Assembly was managed by this painting or someone saying there was pressure on it. I mean, it's easy for him, you know, he's scared in the dark, and the "sister perse" gets scared when he gets into some dark situation, but, you know, it's not about that, the law only knows the irrevocable resignation. Mr. Chikiriz, we're serious people. Article 47. The law, by which you gave your coalition list irrevocable resignation, is the same for everyone. I mean, if there wasn't any pressure, which is absolutely irrelevant for the law, and for some congregation majority, as it was for the City Election Commission... There sits seven highly professional lawyers, including your colleague Mrs. Zorica Avramovic, who is the president of the City Election Commission, the secretary of the Kragujevac City Assembly; they have made a decision that, under number one, says: the termination of the mandate to the SRS and the verification of ten new mandates. Even the chairman of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, a council member in the City Assembly, Mr. Sladjan Rakic, your Democrats, came out as a speaker, the president of the mandate-immunity committee, said that he was coming out with a decision saying that the Kragujevac City Assembly should realise that these apostates had stopped their mandate and that, according to the next item of the agenda, they confirmed the mandate to newly elected, or proposed committees by Serbian radicals. It's all clear here. You know, that relationship – I made a mistake earlier, so I said Radomir – Miroslav Tomic and Tomislav Nikolic... And we're just gonna talk about this Radovanka Nikolic, see if there's any family ties. He'll get a criminal report. We will seek the protection of legality, these citizens cannot sit in the Kragujevac City Assembly as representatives of the Serbian Radical Party. This is a precedent. It didn't happen anywhere in Serbia. If he thinks the Democratic Party, if the president thinks he can do it, then of course he can't. We can't take away our rooms. Mrs. Kolundzhija, your President of the Batocina Assembly has dared to write there in one sentence, typing on the computer, as the premises of the SRS are the premises of some phantom Serbian Progressive Party. Don't joke about that stuff. Serbian radicals in Kragujevac, in Šumadia are decent people, they despise Nikolic and all these apostates headed with him, him because he is a criminal...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4098	You've been talking for four minutes. The word is by MP Milan Avramovic, who wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4099	Articles 225 and 226. That the close ties between the leaders of the newly formed political parties, particularly Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandr Vukic, also speaks of the return of parliamentary mandates in the municipality of Novi Belgrade. So two or three days ago, the Serbian Radical Party filed a complaint to the District Court for not returning to SO Novi Belgrade. The major judges, made up of Sladjana Bojovic, Zeljko Skoric and Zivana Djukanovic, have refused to appeal to the SRS's board of directors from New Belgrade, with an explanation that Belgrade's District Court is awaiting the opinion of the Fourth Municipal Court. So the legal laymen are also generally known that the senior legal authority is never waiting for the lower one, but the lower one is waiting for the higher one to make a solution. The case that took place at the Belgrade District Court is unique, given that it is the municipality of New Belgrade, where one of the leaders of the newly formed, famous party lives. For this reason, I would like to introduce you to the fact that a criminal case has been filed against Sladjana Bojovic, Željko Skorić and Zivana Djukanovic, for two reasons, two criminal acts at the scene: the first one, the minister is there, member of 360. Criminal Code, violation of the law by the judge and others - violation of equality, Article 128. Criminal code. So it's a simple fact that Article 47. The law on local elections cannot be interpreted ambiguously, that decisions and complaints can not be postponed in relation to Article 47 more than 48 hours and that this criminal application will be an example for all other unconscious judges who are trying to abuse their personal friendship in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4100	I find that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, that the MP of the people has received without foundation a word. The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4101	I appeal to Article 27, where it is said that the President of the National Assembly, among other things, is doing the work provided for in the Constitution. Madam Chairman, you know that the Constitution has allowed the mandates to belong to the parties on whose proposal the committees or MPs are elected, if they do certain things in accordance with the law. I am saying this for the sake of the citizens of Serbia and for you, to be absolutely clear, that there is no dilemma about the parliamentary mandates and what you have heard - if there are resignations and if it is in accordance with the law, there is no problem, we will respect the law. As far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, we have done everything in accordance with the law, as other parties have done most. This raises the question why the law is not applied by the same archaic in Serbia, but you have an example of New Belgrade and Kragujevac, where the law does not apply, a member of the 47th Law on selecting committees in local self-government assemblies. I will read to you what the law says, I will not read to you a complete member: "Blanko's resignation is written, which contains a statement by the candidate for the committee, or committee, to resign to the office of the council of the local self-government unit, as well as the authority given to the applicant of the electoral list to hand over this resignation, on his behalf, to the president of the local self-government unit assembly. On the basis of the contract referred to in Article 1(1), the applicant of the electoral list shall have the right to freely dispose of the term of office of the committee with which he has concluded the contract and by acting on his own whether or not he will exercise the powers he has received and determines the time to do so. The resignations and powers given in the blank resignations cannot be revoked. "Now you have an individual who says they signed it under pressure. My people, is it possible for someone to humiliate themselves to those limits? What means of coercion were applied to those who stated that they were forced to do so? What was done by those with whom they signed the contracts? When they cheat, when they lie? Then when they signed it and agreed to that "force" or now they're cheating and they say they signed it under duress? What kind of people best say this statement they make in courts that they did it under duress. Nothing did the Serbian Radical Party to force anyone. Nothing. It's all done in accordance with the law. What they do is what they say about them, but it also speaks of you, what kind of state you create. Here you want laws to fight crime. Is there more crime than that for individual courts to make such a decision? What is the background of this decision? What's the motive? The role of the court is to protect the state from criminals, not to allow criminals to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4102	I don't think there have been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, Article 27, the attitude in which the President of the National Assembly is said to be doing the work provided for in the Constitution. As chairman, he performs them, and the topic that MPs talk about is not something that the president of the assembly can deal with from the presidency, nor during the assembly session. The Rules of Procedure say that the chairman, or president of the National Assembly, is doing the tasks involved, of course, in the predominant National Assembly. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys. He wants a word about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4103	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I've already been out for this pay phone and I've called on Article 226. I'm calling on him again. You gave me a satisfactory answer at the first moment, however, you saw that after what you told us, the reaction of the other parliamentary groups followed. I think you now need to give us more detailed information because there is justifiable anxiety in a good part of our student youth, which is not satisfied with the solutions that we are just creating in the congregation hall. I would like to warn you that we from the SRS, Mr Mirovic, Miss Dimitrijevic, were the first to contact the students on the street, we heard their legitimate demands and we are absolutely behind them. The story itself, which I would not repeat, but it is good to tell this story in front of the minister of justice, clearly proves that there is no justice in Serbia and that Serbia is not a rule of law. There are false laws, bad laws that put a major number of students' youth into an awkward situation. They are then brought by the government, such a humble government, this coalition is an unnatural coalition... The student pressure minister allegedly passed a new law, but therefore immediately the coalition partner offered an amendment that would eliminate what he had promised the students to do. That's the point I need to talk to you about today. It is a moral picture of the position, which works jointly: a minister from the SPS, under the pressure of students, that a law that will facilitate many students' situation, and immediately thereafter appears from a coalition, from the opposite party, which cancels what has been achieved. Don't play with students, don't play with justice and justice. And if there was no justice, you can see absolutely from these judgments of the municipal court in Belgrade. Madam Minister, aren't you ashamed to sit at the head of the justice department and allow this kind of crime? The same district court makes two different verdicts, on Vrakar one, and on New Belgrade the other. You sit here quietly and don't react to all that. It's a disgrace and a shame. You also insult the parliamentary system, you demean it, and we won't even talk about the executive government. You're enough pictures of yourself. Here comes a certain citizen, we live in a strange time... (President: National MP, no citizen, no citizen, no citizen, came out for the National Assembly address.) The People's MPs get the word. Most MPs get a word without a basis, as you get a word without a basis, because you're not talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, but you're abusing the Rules of Procedure. You interrupted me before time. (President: I broke up in three minutes and 15 seconds. No, two minutes and 50 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4104	Please leave the pay phone. The word has been given by MP Milan Lapcevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and he receives a word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4105	Madam Chairman, I'm reporting to members 225 and 226. It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure, but I need information to carry out my parliamentary duty. I'm Milan Lapcevic and I'm from Nis. Nish is, as you know, a university town. I have an obligation, because I have been asked by many students from Nis and students, whom there are over 27,000 at the University of Nis, to give them relevant information about what happens to their request for enrolment next year. The Serbian university conference proposed that students be enrolled in 42-point students over the next year. This was accepted by the Ministry of Education and forwarded to the Assembly and to the MPs for adoption by emergency procedure. After that, it was obtained in the material and amendment of a certain letter, our colleague, Mrs. Jagoda Jorge, who belongs to the ruling coalition, which changes the meaning of student demands. The same ruling coalition, i.e. the government accepts the amendment, i.e. the minister is now changing his opinion and accepting an amendment that completely changes the meaning of the student requirement and puts students who study as self-financed in a subordinate position. I really need information to know what to pass on to the students, who are very much at the University of Nischi, who are funded by their parents. You know for a fact that this region is the poorest region in Serbia, that it is particularly important for the students of that university. If more than 200-300 students here were protesting and carrying a banner today that one giraffe, for which there was money in the budget, was worth 250 students, I'm afraid it would be the biggest insult for students, that the government could separate the money from buying a giraffe to settle coalition agreements, but that's why it has to save on students, because it won't be able to finance all those who raise 42 points and have to move to the burden of Serbia's budget. Not to mention other contradictory things concerning Serbia's budget, which is minus 45 billion dinars, almost 8% of the total budget. Let's not talk about the 60% gas collection. I don't remember any favors in this country cost 60% in the last 15 years. If someone explains to me what motives they are and how the Prime Minister said yesterday that in 90 days of a better life, we got a 60 percent gas-gathering, and I'm afraid of tomorrow gathering telecommunications services 100%... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm done. If this amendment, proposed by Mrs. Jagoda Jorga, is adopted, I am afraid that it will break for students, so that Serbia's future is quite uncertain, i.e. certain -- very bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4106	People's MP, you got your word without a basis, since you're not talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. The contents of your speech are very similar, if not identical, to several MPs. It is a meeting held today between the representatives of students and authorised representatives and the president of parliamentary groups, with a view to amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which is in the process. The content of their mutual decisions, if any, and everything concerning this conversation will be notified in good time. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly give the possibility, in Article 140, that the Assembly Committee on Education, whose National MP is Zoran Shami, before the start of the debate in particular, to submit amendments which improve the quality of the law or such an amendment is made in accordance with the arrangements with those interested in change. Your request, except that the abuse of Rules of Procedure by members of 225 and 226, is that here you are convinced by the chairman of the content of the discussions between the interested groups simply cannot be satisfied. I repeat, you will be informed of the outcome of the conversation. People's MPs have earned to speak too long. National MP Momir Markovic throws it away. I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the mutual treatment of all Members of the People's Parliament and the Chairman or President of the National Assembly. I'd be much more pleased, if that's at all important, it probably isn't, that I don't have to give any explanations at all. During this session, MPs appear one after another by misappropriating the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, receiving a word without a basis, and cannot expect me to join the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in which MPs participate, and according to our silent agreement on giving words when requested and said that they want to talk about injury to the Rules of Procedure. I am not going to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I will give you explanations every time another position obliges me, because it is my duty. He has a word because he wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nikola Lazic, and he gets his word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4107	Dear Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to the members of Rules of Procedure 225 and 226, so not for the injury, but for the wish...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4108	People's MP, you can't get your word if you say there's no damage to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Thank you, please return to your seat. The MP asked for a word to speak of the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. He also got word for the National Assembly speaker, you can see in the stenogram, he said - no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The word can't get out. Please share in the respect of all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4109	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Before I say which member I'm calling for, there was a little confusion; you called me, I just supported you from the scene and told the Members of Parliament that you didn't talk much. You misunderstood me. I supported you in your efforts... (President: You can't throw away from the post, MP, regardless of whether it's a support drop, an indifferent attitude, or a criticism of someone who speaks. Tossing out of place is a business provision prohibited, a violation of the Rules of Procedure and a basis for giving notice to the MP who does so. I thank you for your support, for everyone who holds the presidency of this congregation needs support. I apologize for the interruption, and here you are from the beginning. I thank you. I was just telling my colleagues around that they're mistaken when they say you talk a lot from the presidency. I'm referring to Article 104. Article 1 says: "The People's Messengers are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. "The respect of the dignity of the National Assembly is, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, and when we pass laws and try to pass laws that are applicable and that will at least make life easier for the citizens of Serbia, which is why we are here. Respect for the dignity of the National Assembly is also when we follow the implementation of these laws. When citizens turn to us for breaking the law, we from this assembly speaker call on the relevant factors to respect these laws until the end and to correct the injustices against the citizens of Serbia. I know that five-six people come to the Serbian Radical Party's rooms every day, if not more citizens who complain that the law has damaged them. Since it is our obligation to follow these laws, the provisions of Article 47. The law on local elections, which we have passed here before the elections, are consistent, can't be interpreted but must be applied: "The alderman who has resigned blanco can... "and so on. All eight views of Article 47 of the Law must be respected. Courts, judges, district judges who decide this as a second-degree body cannot play with the law. Because if we allow judges to behave like this in Belgrade and this bigger one in Kragujevac, then what do we expect, who will enforce the laws if the judges are not the ones to enforce them. It seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, that the practice that was once after the "buldozer revolution" was in Serbia and that was then slightly forgotten, here it is again. I remind you that the professors... Gisa Knezevic, first of all, broke his working relationship with a regular professor of Law School, Dr Vojislav Seselj, by applying the draft law. Right now when we look at this bill that we are discussing in particular and we are looking at this situation that was created in Kragujevac because of the misreading of Article 47. The law on local elections, I come to the conclusion that this practice is coming back. Paragraph 3 of Article 25 of this Law says: "By resolving the position of the 2nd member, the court may leave the owner... "and it's about those who have acquired property by crimes. The property was acquired by a group of citizens called "Forward Serbia", by stealing... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm sorry, just to quote this article and I'm leaving right now. So he can leave a portion of the wealth to support himself. If we will support those who have stolen the property, if we will leave them with the means to support them until another solution is found, we will not go far. I ask that Madam Minister of Justice take all measures... (President: Four minutes. )......................................................................................................... I'll be right there... He takes every step of the way to keep things like this from happening in courts. You have the authority to get the judge in line.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4110	People's MP, you have called for the contempt of the law to offend the dignity of the National Assembly. Just to remind you that for the control of those who enforce the law, which is the Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the authorities and organisations that we control, mechanisms are used where the breach of the Rules of Procedure is not one of the mechanisms. You have a business opportunity to convene a meeting of the Committee on Justice, whose chairman is also a member of the Great Personal Council, if it is a matter of judicial failures notified by citizens and citizens in Serbia. And you have the possibility from Article 199, second position, that on behalf of your parliamentary group as an authorised representative, or your chairman of a parliamentary group, you may request a session to be held with one minister, Prime Minister or Government and then to control whether or not the laws that our National Assembly has passed apply, and this was the abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Is this pitching too, MP, support? It's not. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. He wants a word on the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets it on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. After him, MP Milan Skrbic wants a word on the same basis. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4111	Mrs. Komic, I'll take the descriptive first, and finally numerically. First of all, I think you've broken the Rules of Procedure harshly and I don't blame you for being mistaken. You were led astray by the council of the City of Kragujevac Assembly. Now let me explain it nicely to you, both to you and to the public in Serbia, to see how dangerous guys in the National Assembly do it, those who make these delusions. What is clear to everyone in Serbia is that there is no Jagoda Jovanovic in this room, there is no Slavisa Samčovic, there is no Goran Kovacevic, there is no Zorica Djordjevic, there is no Snezana Zujic. But in this room he was a citizen of Mileta Poscurica and you gave him your word as a councilman of the City Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4112	People's MP, in this assembly, I don't know if he's in the O.R. or in the building, but National MP Mileta Poscurica has all the rights and responsibilities that come out of that status, so he has the right to get a word if he asks for it on the basis of Article 100(1) to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasa Jovanovic insists he will explain. I give her a warning. I ask you to treat all MPs with respect, for all 250 of us have equal rights arising from the status of the MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4113	Thank you very much. You confirmed exactly what I said. I started this statement by saying that you were mistaken, and you proved to me that you were in grave error.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4114	People's messenger, I give you a warning. People's MP, thank you, you can return to your seat. I gave you a warning based on a violation of Article 104 after I gave you an explanation that there are only MPs in the National Assembly who have all the rights and responsibilities arising from the status of the MP. There are no citizens, and that's why no one is wrong, neither am I. The MP is throwing why I can't be mistaken. Because at this moment, at 1645, I have no information that any of the MPs have resigned and that any of the MPs have anything but the MPs or MPs. I thank you, MP, you can return to your seat. The word has the People's MP Milan Škrbić. He wants a word on the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets it on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. After him, the People's Messenger of Pai Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4115	I appeal to Article 104, the first position, which says: "The Members of the People are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly", and of course, of the members of the 225 and 226. I quote Article 226: "The MP has the right to request a notice and an explanation from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies or organisations on issues covered by the rights and duties of officials from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the functions of the MP. "Of course, I use the opportunity when there is a minister of justice, related to Article 104, which says that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. You're the one who allowed the Ambassador Poscurica, the so-called MP because... (President: People's MPs, you cannot call other people's messengers the so-called. All MPs in this assembly have the same rights and responsibilities that arise from the status of the MP. Please address other MPs with respect and in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. ) Of course I'm using Mrs. Minister's presence here because what the court in Kragujevac brought today, the district court, is indeed precedent. Today or yesterday, the Sombor District Court made a decision to return the SRS to 16 mandates. How is it that district courts that fall under one Justice Department work so differently? This is an opportunity, Madam Minister, for you to do something with this restructuring of the district courts that is your obligation, with the help of the MPs, to take away the right of non-legislative judges who work so differently in a small state like Serbia. I have here before me a decision of the Belgrade court and some other courts where it is said that in the name of the people they bring judgment and appeal is denied. This was in the name of Boris, and what I have in front of me in the name of the people. All of this is clear in the light of the contents of the blanco resignation provided for in Article 47(3). The Law on Local Elections, which makes it irrevocable to the committee's statement that it resigns as a committee member in the local self-government unit assembly. It was not established or referred to complaints indicating the difference between recalling and withdrawing the resignation, as the declaration of withdrawal cannot remove or delay the legal fact of the statement of resignation on the position of the committee and the authority given to the applicant of the electoral list that this resignation, on behalf of the committee, should be submitted to the local self-government unit assembly, which are unrevocable. On the basis of a contract concluded within the meaning of Article 47(1), The Law on Local Elections, whose existence is not disputed by alleged complaints, gives the electoral list the right to freely dispose of the mandate of the committee to conclude the contract by deciding independently whether to exercise the powers it has received and determines the time when it will do so. The appeal of the complainants to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, which is permitted to resign, is not of the effect on the court's position, since the termination of the term of office of the members of the local self-government shall be governed by the Law on Local Elections which does not refer to the application of the Law on People's MPs and which, in the cited provision of Article 47(5), explicitly stipulates that the resignations and powers given in the blank resignations cannot be revoked. This is an extremely good explanation of the District Court, for example, here in Belgrade, which is written in detail on five pages. This should be a guide for all district courts, not having different arches under pressure, maybe some local powers. Since I'm using your presence, I hope you'll pay attention and sanction such courts and judges who bring such shameful judgments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4116	It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys. He wants a word on the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets it on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure in the speech of the previous speaker, and the speaker received an unfounded word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4117	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I advertise Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Republika Srpska Assembly, which says dignity must be kept. In fact, Madam Chairman, I think that you are greatly in violation of the Rules of Procedure and that you are putting yourself above MPs, and that you have no right to do so by having the opportunity to chair. You allowed yourself to interrupt me when I used the term "citizen." Please, what does "citizen" mean? Is that an insult? Who have I offended? Do you know that civil society is the fluids of Europe? Now, however, this changes a little bit in terminology and we're talking about civil society. Do you know there was a civil party in the old Yugoslavia? Did you know there was a civil alliance? So, the Civil League, in your opinion, is a bunch of wicked people. And when someone says they're a citizen... I'm a citizen, I don't know if you consider yourself a citizen, maybe you were born somewhere else, and that's all you interrupted me for. What are you doing? I'm free to say, it seems to me that you're overstepping your powers and using the Rules of Procedure to discipline and drive you into some kind of hermetical order that you imagine should exist in this House. Please, I didn't insult anyone when I said - citizen. "Citizen" is a general term and that philosopher could come out so that if he could explain the categories, he would explain it nicely, I don't know how to say it, but I think you need it. What's the problem? There's a moral problem... I'm sorry, I may have been too loud when I spoke and when I appealed to Madam Minister to be in order, if he was sitting in the Ministry and if he was the head of that ministry, to react when the court in the capital makes a counterjudgment in two identical cases, because there's something wrong with that justice. Maybe that's wrong, maybe my tone wasn't right, here, I apologize to the Minister, but I still don't think it's right and that any serious minister would take immediate action, and in some serious countries, European, civilized, it might be a matter of possible resignation. So you're not giving me the right to speak freely. In this country, of course, we have the fake Emperor Scepan the kid, so why don't the Administrative Board have a fake president, Tomislav Nikolic, once a big, now small one? So that's the thing, too. It's a violation of justice and law, and we point to that and nothing else. I will not continue to use this time, I think that you have violated the Rules of Procedure, that you have brutally misused your powers and I ask that the MPs declare this in the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4118	National MP, you will be able to read by looking at the stenogram of your presentation that you have said that I speak to the citizens of the National Assembly. It is a very serious demeaning of the National Assembly. People's MP, I listen very carefully to every speech, every MP, and I try to keep everything spoken up in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to honor the silent agreement that we have on the abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I can understand that we are all moved by the will to make a metaphor and express ourselves, but I ask you to understand that when the speaker says that he is giving a word to the citizens behind the National Assembly speaker, it is a very serious offense and that I must warn you, a violation concerning inadmissible matters for the chairman of the National Assembly. There is a word for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nikola Lazic, and he gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4119	Dear Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I will quote: "The People's Messengers are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. People's MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. It is not allowed to use offensive expressions, as well as to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons." Dear Mrs. Comic, I think you're a bit of an act when you took away my word, and on that occasion I wanted to call on the members of 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, injure not only one democratic way to conduct this session, but you have specifically violated the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. I therefore ask that in the day of voting, the Serbian Parliament declare itself on this. Namely, I wanted to, based on the members of 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to ask a question concerning the amendment to the amendment to the amendment to the Law on Higher Education on the threat of interest not only in the student population, but also in the compromise of state and national interests, because the student population is the elite that one day should lead this country. I understand, Mrs. Comic, that as the ruling majority, you are not responsible for speaking openly and openly about this, I can say freely, they miss the ruling majority when it comes to this law, but I don't think a non-democratic way of leading this session is going to solve this issue. I think it is much better to face arguments and to address this issue to the benefit of all students and to the benefit of the state in a democratic atmosphere, through democratic dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4120	People's MP, your word has not been taken from you. The word shall be taken away after the messenger of the people has committed one thing, and the second one according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly; then the chairman must say very clearly that the word is taken away. The taking of words takes place during the session at which the measure is given. Your word has not been taken from you. You stopped getting your word for it, because, look at the stenogram, after you asked for a word based on article 100 to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and get word before others, you said – it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I have no choice but to break the Rules of Procedure or to tell you that the basis for which you will receive your word is lost. As far as your presentation is concerned, and given the debate in the details waiting for us when they are amended and complemented by the Higher Education Act, I think it's quite clear that we all agree that we want to make an agreement. That's why the meeting was held today. Therefore, there is a business possibility for the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Education to submit an amendment to the Amendment and addition of the Higher Education Act until the hearing is opened. The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic. He seeks word to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word based on Article 100(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. (Zoran Nikolic: Who's next? ) After him he wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure MP Slobodan Maras. (Zoran Nikolic: I called before him. Check it out a little bit. Don't deliberately ignore it. You have an assistant, a secretary, and you're doing your job. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4121	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 104. Rules of Procedure. So, Madam Chairman, you have abolished the right, i.e. you did not allow MP Nikola Lazic to speak by members of 225 and 226. Obviously you didn't understand what the problem was, because you probably weren't outside. For several hours, one of the main streets of Belgrade was blocked because of a legitimate protest by students. Several students sat there in front of the National Assembly, asking for explanations from the Minister of Education and the Committee for the Enlightenment of the Republika Srpska Assembly. What are they protesting for? Because individual categories of students are denied the right to education because they are discriminated against. If someone works honestly and learns and is the only asset in his life, it is not allowed by amending the Law. That's why the student protest was organized. You obviously don't understand it, or you don't care about the student protest at all. That's the essence of the problem, which is why we went out of business. You have been working all day, and even before when you conducted the sessions, trying to cause a general dissatisfaction in the congregation. Obstruction of MPs, abolishing words, do you think that's democracy? Do you think that's how the National Assembly is run? I ask that the National Assembly declare itself in the day of voting on the violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4122	National MP Milan Dimitrijevic probably wasn't in the O.R. when MP Nikola Lazic appeared on the same basis for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So MP Nikola Lazic sought and received his word on the basis of Article 100(1) to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You can see by looking at the stenogram that he said - it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. At that moment, the basis for which the MP gets his word over the line is lost as soon as he asks for it, as it concerns the procedure and the course of the session of the National Assembly. That was why he was asked to return to his post, because he received the unfounded, according to his own statement to the National Assembly speaker, which, I repeat, you can make an insight into the stenogram of this session. The word has been issued by MP Zoran Nikolic, with apologies for the order, because he should have received the word immediately after MP Nikola Lazic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4123	Dear People's MPs, Madam Chairman, I do not accept your apology. You've been doing your job all day, since you've been chairing, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. What I intend to do is quote four members of the Rules of Procedure, so I would ask you not to consider that time. Article 27: "The President of the National Assembly is doing the work provided for in the Constitution, chairing the meetings of the National Assembly, taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly" very important, this is what you do not do all day long, "it takes care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly, doing other tasks foreseen by law and this Rules of Procedure". Article 104: "The Members of the people are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. People's MPs are obliged to address one another with respect." I'll remind you of the fact that you, even though you're chairman, are a people's ambassador. "It is not allowed to use offensive expressions, nor is it allowed to give facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. "Article 225: "The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the function of the MP. For a more complete notification, official publications of the National Assembly and information and documentation materials on issues on the agenda of the National Assembly session and on other issues from the National Assembly section are regularly provided to MPs." Article 226: "The MP shall have the right to request information and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, and which he needs to exercise the functions of the MP". I'm quoting 17 seconds, now it's two minutes and five seconds, so one minute and 48 seconds, I'd like to ask you to respect me and ignore me. So you took away a word from one of the people who called on Article 225. He sought, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, an explanation, that is, whether the proposal would withdraw the amendment to a very important law, when it comes to a very important matter -- in order to equalise Belgrade University students' rights, and not just Belgrade University. It may irritate you, but it's your private business. So, I don't want to go out here and get in touch with you. You've been constant and permanent all day in confrontation with all the MPs. If we start to logically explain things, then or something is wrong with all these MPs that went out today, and if there's a possibility that there's something wrong with one MP, or quite all right, then something's wrong with you. So this is Parliament and here the MPs have their rights, you like to say "and obligations"; I am now calling for rights, and of course they have obligations. This is the Assembly, not the battlefield where you fight all the time. You're acting like an artillery lieutenant - the canon of your sentences, some explanations that no one's looking for. At the very least, that's how you see the Rules of Procedure. Not only to point out the illogicalities you've been making here on many occasions. So, what is your goal, to irritate the MPs whenever you preside? Stop doing that and realize that MPs have rights. We know that at this point the rights of students are compromised. We want, we insist and we launch an initiative – that whoever has proposed an amendment that deprives students of their rights withdraws the amendment. We're using the right of that Rules of Procedure to talk about it here. So, deprive us of your suggestions, your comments. There's no need for citizens watching this transmission from you to hear me take a casual step off this stage, because you're also able to say that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4124	People's MP, you probably weren't in the O.R., either. The MP Nikola Lazic is not... (Zoran Nikolic, from the place: Do not deceive the public, lie to the public. You can give me a warning, but you can't lie. You've been lying all day. ) National MP, I understand fatigue, the concentration is necessary for this work, but there is really no need to express the emotions of that kind. My guess is that you weren't in the O.R. when I was giving a reply to the MP, Nikola Lazic, because I can hardly believe that you heard the answer and that he remained unclear. So the taking of words isn't said. The measure of confiscation is expressed after the MP, in violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, has been given the first measure, and second warnings, and only then is the measure of confiscation of words expressed. The People's MP, Niko Lazic, was not taken away, nor was one of the previous measures needed to take the word. National MP Nikola Lazic asked for his word that he wanted to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and received his word on the basis of Article 100(1). He came out and, with insight into the stenogram you can see it, he said – there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, which means there was no basis for him to get the word. All I had to do was say - People's MP, there's no basis for you to get the word, please return to your place. For everything else you have stated under Articles 225 and 226, the members of 225 and 226 concern the chapters of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the fields of law and the duties of the Members of Parliament. Article 100, on the basis of which a word is received when someone wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, concerns the course of the session and is an important part, is the right of every MP to receive a word to warn of any error or breach of procedure and the course of the session. The informal agreement of all of us here gives us a word, and if you want to talk about the members of 225 and 226. The fact that someone comes out and says "no injuries to the Rules of Procedure" leaves me nothing more than to say, "Please go back to your seat and look for the word again." That's not controversial. When it comes to everything else you have said and the way you have acted in communication with me, as with the chairman, I leave it to all of us to assess whether it was in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, whether respect for the dignity of the National Assembly and whether it is according to the Rules of Procedure to address each other's MPs. The word has been given by MP Slobodan Maras; he asks for a word, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and he receives his word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4125	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I advertise the violation of the 200th Rules of Procedure. If you allow me to read it, "The Government's oral question must be answered orally, or the minister must respond immediately. If it's for giving an answer... "The microphone behind the payphone has been turned off. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4126	People's MP, you can't ask a parliamentary question. (Free Marash, next to the pay phone: I did not bring a stenogram to read to you what the President of the Assembly said was necessary to answer the minister. You cannot ask parliamentary questions. It's the same situation as when it comes to MP Nikola Lazic. (Free Marash, next to the pay phone: it is an answer to the parliamentary question. It has been several days since Minister Skundric promised to give an answer. The president of the assembly said five days ago, or ten days ago, that the answer would be provided. You have no basis for words. No injured Rules of Procedure. Please, People's Parliament, return to your seat. The Rules of Procedure are not injured, you have no basis for receiving the word. Form your speech so I can leave you my word, if you are already looking for a word based on Article 100(1). The parliamentary issues are a special item of the agenda and we cannot use a member relating to the rights and duties of MPs of the National Assembly to ask parliamentary questions. The word is from Ambassador Milan Dimitrijevic. He's asking for a word because he wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100 of Item 1, based on which he gets his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4127	Madam Vice President, Article 104. So, you're dealing with whether or not the MPs are in the O.R. instead of running the Assembly. You obviously don't understand what the problem is and how important this problem is. You're dealing with thesis, because you stick your head in the sand in front of a serious problem. Education who knows how many young people are threatened by this law. We're talking about this problem that's emerging in the state. Here you go, Mrs. Kolundjia, were you going to say something? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4128	You cannot contact MPs and there is no dialogue between MPs. All MPs must respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask you to continue your statement on the breach of the Rules of Procedure and to state which injury has been committed. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4129	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament and People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I appeal to Rule 104, violation of the Rules of Procedure, violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. It's a public deception. A group of DSS MPs have been trying to place something in public all afternoon that's not true. I'll read Article 87(3). The Law on Higher Education, adopted in 2005, when the Minister of Education was Mr Vuksanovic of the DSS: "The student who is financed from the budget is defined for as many items as it takes to achieve at least 60 ESP points. "It is said that he needs to enroll next year as much, so 60 points. Article 84(4), which is very important and has caused this problem, which the DSS is trying to present as a problem caused by the current ruling coalition, reads: "In the following years, the number of students in Item 3 of this Member, the higher education institution, can increase by no more than 20% compared to the previous year, in accordance with the decision of the competent authority of the higher education institution. "Mrs. Jagoda Jorge's amendment, which you today are trying to present as a basic problem, actually regulates which 20% of students can be enrolled in next year's study. He didn't regulate that it was 20%, only that it was 20%. Students who do not belong to the Democratic Party of Serbia, unlike those who are protesting today in front of the Assembly, have come to the conclusion with a smaller number of points, under certain conditions, that the next school year may be entered. It's not possible for that number to be more than 20%, because of the number your minister brought in. So don't abuse the situation now, and don't, under the influence of defending the rights of students, attack those who are trying to make it better for all students in this country under the bad law your minister has proposed and that your government of Vojislav Kostunica has brought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4130	The People's Parliament has said a violation of the Rules of Procedure due to the deception of the public. I can't give you that explanation. Those who provide information know whether or not the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I can't give you any explanation of the content, because I can't know if anyone is misleading the public with any information. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic has.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4131	Mrs. Komic, the Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 100 of Position 2 obliges me to specify which provision of the Rules of Procedure has been violated. Article 104 of Position 2 has been injured, which, Mrs Komic, obliges you to respect communication with the MPs. We've done a lot of good work today, and I think we've been seriously discussing amendments submitted to the proposed law. You made a big mistake, Mrs. Comic. You know very well that this Rules of Procedure has long been overcome, that this Rules of Procedure regulates relations within our Parliament, and that it is largely contrary to our daily routine because it has come out of parliament of one of the republics of the SRJ, or one of the members of the SCG state community, that we have broken all the deadlines that have obliged us to reform this Rules of Procedure and to comply with the needs of our daily work. Mr. Marash tried to point out the serious problem that came from the fact that the government did not respect the Rules of Procedure and did not respect its business obligations. If the government does not respect its business obligations, why would it be obliged to make up the opposition? If the Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia Mr. Skundric is silent for a month, refusing to answer the question he was obliged to answer within eight days, what time does Mr. Maras have to come to the answer he seeks and which is very important, if not for the majority in this assembly, then certainly for the majority of our society? Mr. Maras wanted to talk about the problem of gas collection, but not only through the ambition to trip someone now because the price of gas was raised, but to return the debate to a set of laws we've been discussing for the past few days, pointing to the failures of the ruling majority who, for example, put in the process some laws and left others aside. So he stayed by the information classification law so that the Minister of the Government of Mr Cvetkovic could tell us that the state's secret gas price is on the way into our country. You told Mr. Marash to wait for the agenda point - parliamentary issues. Here you go, Mrs. Komic, the agenda of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Here are 14 points of the agenda. Find me, please, a point - parliamentary questions. That's not the point. I understand you're doing a hard job. You've been sitting here with us all day. I have an understanding of the efforts you're making, but in order for this debate to have a normal course, be a little more patient, because this Rules of Procedure has long been overcome and he can't edit everything. The strict application of the Rules of Procedure cannot arrange our daily work here. This can, in another way, be resolved, in the first phase of a tolerance relationship, in the second phase of joint work on the new Rules of Procedure, which will then prevent the abuse of the Rules of Procedure and, on the other hand, enable Members to do their jobs normally. I'm sorry, we got 80,000 votes in Vojvodina. We're bound to these people. We're interested in why it had to happen the way it happened today when we're talking about the price of gas. (President: Time. I quoted two members of the Rules of Procedure. As for fraud, don't go that way. More of your coalition partners voted for this Vuksanovic law than is sitting here in opposition to the opposition to the law. Both the G17 and the Socialists, they all voted in favour of the law. Today we had students on the street, the least important thing is which foreigners these students belong to. There's one problem, and that problem needs to be solved. The ruling coalition has tried to amend the law with amendments. We said we'd support something like that. Another amendment to the amendments and amendments to the law on the university was subsequently made, which means that there was obviously some inconsistency, some indiscretion, an anomaly that is being corrected in such a way, but it is necessary to make it very clear, not to bring us into a position to meet with students on the street, that we do not know what actually happened, and that the MP who suggests a solution then remains without the right to speak because the only way was to call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I think we need a little more brains, and we're going to contribute to that back-to-the-brains thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4132	As much as I can agree that, according to what you said, the Rules of Procedure have been overcome, the others have not. In accordance with this Rules of Procedure, a word by the MPs registered on a speech schedule, other than the president of the parliamentary groups, the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups or the chairman of the committee and those who have singled out an opinion, can only be obtained on the basis of Article 100. We have an informal agreement on the use of both article 100 and the use of members 225 and 226, who treat rights and duties and have nothing to do with during the session and cannot form the basis for a word. The basis to win is Article 100(1) that the MP wants to talk about the injury of a member. All that we have, I think, more or less respected, is that we do not mention that the Rules of Procedure has not been injured, that we do not mention parliamentary issues, because then I have no choice but to say that the MP has lost ground to get the word. If the National Assembly wants to make a statement about it... Does MP Cedomir Jovanovic want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4133	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, I'm advocating a violation of article 27. Mrs. Comic, you are required to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. You didn't let the public hear me. More than 40 days ago, I asked some questions orally to the minister who was sitting here. The president of the assembly said - Mr. Maras, you will get an answer to that question. As Mr Skundric said, it stands in the stenogram, 10 days ago the president of the assembly said he would honor the 30-day deadline to get answers to certain questions. I didn't mean to abuse this pay phone, but because I come from Vojvodina, as well as a large number of MPs, I have to say we have one problem. As Minister Skundric said, 80% of Vojvodina has been shut down. The biggest blow of this 60% increase is the price of citizens living in Vojvodina. That's why I have to ask the question again, since today we have a question in "Blica" that's being discussed about it, do we pay a higher price for gas because of the existence of a 5% mediator, that's "Yugorosgas"? You have gas prices in the surrounding countries, you have gas prices in EU countries. We now have the highest price of gas in the environment. What's the reason for that? You convinced us here, 214 MPs voted in favour of this agreement, that we would have a cheaper price of gas when we adopted that agreement. We now have a higher price of gas. What Minister Skundric said the other night on TV -- I'm just a minister and I don't set the price of gas, and I use gas. Is that the answer of one responsible man who's the Minister of Energy? Who's going to explain why we're getting more gas? Which is why citizens, specifically in Vojvodina, where 80% are being gassed, are now paying 60% more expensive? You guys know what a burden it is for citizens. And you're coming from Vojvodina, and you know that problem, I didn't mean to abuse it. Tell me, Madam Chairman, how do I get an answer to the questions that, in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, I have put in the course of this debate? When? It's been 30 days, as it is in article 200 of this Rules of Procedure. Within 30 days of the sea, if it's a complicated question, to give an answer. It's been 40 days since it was September 5th. When do we get an answer? If the question is such that you can't get an answer, say it's a state secret. The state secret is what the price of gas is, the state's secret is who the mediator is, the state's secret is who introduced that mediator, the state's secret is to take 5%. I repeat, in 2001, Zoran Djindjic abolished the mediator, until then the mediator took 0.2%. According to Minister Dinkic's idea, a new mediator -- "Yugorosgas", was introduced in 2006, and was taking 5% on gas imports, which is why the price of gas is so high. I want the minister to give me an answer to that and other questions I've asked. You have to make it possible for me, I didn't want to abuse, I wanted to say that there was no due date, and I'm interested in when I get the answer, and me and the other MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4134	In your presentation, you have the right to, like other MPs... I repeat, the parliamentary question is in the statement that I have to respond to, since parliamentary questions are being asked after all the agenda points have been completed, and it can be done at the end of this session, because it is not voted on as a special item of the agenda. In agreement with the President of the Assembly, we can when we have finished this session to ask parliamentary questions, but I cannot give you a word during the session to ask a parliamentary question. I must tell you, you have no basis for receiving words, neither you nor any other MP. As far as the Secretary-General's answer is concerned, he's bound by our rules of procedure... I know three business opportunities to force the Minister together, as the Assembly, because that is what this is about, to provide us with the answer in accordance with the Rules of Procedure: through the Energy Committee, through the scheduled session at the request of the parliamentary group or at the proposal of the National Assembly president. Be assured that I will propose to the president of the National Assembly to schedule a session at which all ministers from the government will attend, because the topic is very current, or an impeachment for a minister who, by disrespecting the MPs, also disrespects the National Assembly. That's what I know, so it can be shown that the Assembly is performing its control function. On the occasion of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the word is wanted by MP Zoran Nikolic and received word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4135	Madam Chairman, I haven't even gotten to the pay phone yet and you've already broken the Rules of Procedure. So you can't say on what basis I'm looking for a word. I have a Rules of Procedure here, and there are 239 members in the Rules of Procedure, so it is possible that I will refer to another member. Why would I talk about a member you want to talk about? I would also like to tell you that I should draw the public's attention to the following: in the morning part, the chairman was Mr. Nikola Novakovic, and during the afternoon this assembly, if I am not mistaken, has handled more than 20 amendments. So, one correct atmosphere, correct discussion. The minister was involved in the work, which is also commendable. We really had a great working atmosphere. So, on your arrival, you have decided, and you do so by the rule almost always, to be in confrontation with the entire parliament and with all MPs. But there is one exception: when Mrs. Alexandra Jerkov came forward a moment ago, you didn't say anything. After my first date for the pay phone, you made a comment, I left the gym, of course, because I have no intention of listening to you; you spoke for three minutes. Do you realize how much time you're wasting? Do you know that I'm not interested in your reasoning? I know you have violated my rights and the rights of the other MPs. On whose behalf are you doing this? What are you fighting here? I told you you're not an artillery sergeant here so you can throw out some canonnadoes, I have no intention of saluting. I intend to respect the Rules of Procedure and respect the citizens who have chosen each individual MP in this assembly. But I'm going back to what you were silent when Mrs./Miss Alexandra Jerkov said, which is very indicative, and you didn't comment on anything afterwards. She said here that the law was passed during the DSS and during the term of office of Minister Vuksanovic. These are not students – you do not now warn certain MPs who earn, but I do not expect you to do your job – gathered to protest against the law, but against the amendment to this law. One more thing, it's about young people studying. It's our future elite. They're marked as DSS members here. I don't know how you saw someone being a member of the DSS, whether they're writing to someone who's in charge of being a member of the DSS or who's a member of the DSS has 60 points, so they feel they've been denied his right, so you're in that way and by that logic... (President: Time. Which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured, MP? I'm just finishing up.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4136	People's MP, you've been given the floor under Rule 100 1 - the MP gets his word when he wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Three minutes have passed, and I asked you which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured, because if no member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured, you have no basis for getting the word. The only basis to get word over the line, as soon as you ask, is Article 100(1). An MP who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure gets his word as soon as he asks. Thank you. Regardless of your practical and theoretical violation of the Rules of Procedure, not wanting to comply with the provisions of Article 100, Article 1 and Article 2, without wanting to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, I can only tell you that you have told the lie. After he's finished, MP Free Maras isn't interrupted once. I am silent, and I listen very carefully to every MP. You said I was interrupting all the MPs of the people except for Alexander Jerkov's national emissary. You said I didn't give Alexandra Jerkov an explanation. By looking at the stenogram, and it's possible that you weren't in the O.R. So you didn't hear, you can see that I gave her an explanation, because it's my duty. I said, "The People's Parliament has said that other MPs deceive the public. I can't give a court of law about that, because I can't know if the information provided by the other MPs is correct. "I was obliged to respond to Article 104's sentence of injury. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as she quoted, and she said that the provision was violated because the MPs deceive the public. I can't tell if the MPs are cheating on the public or not. Now you've fooled the public by saying I didn't answer her. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. He wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4137	The President-in-Office, fellow MPs, I am reporting by members of 225 and 226, because the MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the exercise of the function of the MP. So, I advertised this member an hour ago and now I'm going to simplify the question that I asked at the time, which is - what is the fate of the amendment submitted by the MP belonging to the Democratic Party's parliamentary group? We from the Democratic Party of Serbia and I think the entire opposition, as we fear, are approaching amendments that come from the Democratic Party. I'll remind you of June and July, before we discussed the Ministry Act, when suddenly an amendment appeared that threatened to abolish, or not predict the existence of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. I hope you all remember that. Then you criticized us – you are running some topics for daily political reasons. That's not true. I am convinced that the Democratic Party of Serbia, because on that day she spoke so much about the sudden appearance of an amendment that abolishs or does not foresee the creation of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, is due to the fact that now this ministry, which is very important, exists. When an amendment from the Democratic Party appears, we are very careful. I would ask Miss Jerkov to answer her word a little more often, because what she said was public deception. It's not true what she said. This amendment "knocks" the status of a student who is on the budget and the status of a student who is self-financed because a student who has 60 points can happen, but currently has self-financed status, will not be able to enter that quota, enter the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4138	We're moving on to a discussion in detail. National MP Zoran Krasic reminds me it is my duty to respond. The MP asked what was the fate of the amendment submitted by the Democratic Party. I can't answer that question. I need to know what amendment is, which law has been passed on, and I can only direct a People's MP to decide on the fate of the amendments on the votes of all MPs in the voting day, which Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic knows just as well as I do. MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. He gets a word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4139	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in accordance with Article 100(2), I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure committed in accordance with Articles 200 and 202. I am sorry that Parliament's session has gone in the opposite direction since the afternoon work, but we here, in addition to the obligation to effectively discuss the agenda, must be very effective in protecting the interests of the citizens. I believe with my relationship, the LDP protects an interest that is wider than that of our voters. Mrs. Comic, we cannot accept the injuries of members of 200nd and 202nd. Please include my time, and I'll quote one and the other. "The government's oral question, i.e. the minister, must be answered orally immediately." Mr. Skundric didn't do it. "If some preparation is needed to answer, they must immediately explain... ", Mr. Skundric, the Minister of Energy, did not explain it, "and the response to the MP must be delivered in writing, within eight days of the question being asked." Mr. Marash, as well as our MP group, did not receive the requested response within that time limit. "The written response of the government, or the competent ministry, is delivered to the MPs." You didn't get that out of LDP either. "Extremely, if it is necessary to establish certain facts in the preparation of an answer to a parliamentary question which requires a longer or more complex analysis, the time limit for answering the parliamentary question may be extended but not more than 30 days. "We broke that deadline in two weeks. Article 20: "If the answer to the parliamentary question contains data representing a state, military or official secret, the minister, or the government may suggest that the answer be heard without public presence". In the meantime, we have been informed, not officially, not through the Assembly, but through statements by the representatives of the government, that the gas price issue is a matter protected by some kind of secret, I suppose officially, I don't think it's military or state-owned, and that therefore we have no right to get an answer to that question asked by Mr. Maras on September 5th by Energy Minister Skundric. At the time, we discussed Serbia and the Russian Federation's energy agreement. I think it was clear to everyone how many failures there are in the agreement itself, but one of the strongest arguments of the majority that voted in favour of this agreement was, in fact, the belief that because of the realisation of this agreement we would get cheaper oil and gas, that we would not list heat, etc., it is not realistic that this would happen at the moment. Immediately after the adoption, information appeared that the pipeline would practically be built between 2015 and 2024, and today the gas has accumulated 60%. We want to know the structure of that price. That's our job. The government can't run away from its obligation. That's what the Rules of Procedure obliges her to do. When are we gonna get that answer? I think it's very important that we get that answer now and it doesn't matter whether we get an answer now or if we get that answer after our households and businesses start charging such high costs. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I quoted two members of the Rules of Procedure. Let's see what's in that 60 percent structure. Why do we have to have a middleman who charges such a high price for his mediation? It's true that we've abolished... I think it's a company called Progress that brokered at a cost of 0.02%, now it's 5%. Whose company is this? We can't know. In which tender this firm was granted the right to that monopoly position, which, by procedure, we can't know either. (President: Four minutes. I ask you to answer that question, as chairman, because it is very important. Otherwise we're playing with these laws, Mrs. Malovic, there's no reason to argue. Where are you going to take a more classic example of corruption and crime than this contract? We now forbid the councilmen to have a firm. In a country that affirms private entrepreneurship, we prohibit a councilman in a local congregation of municipalities from establishing a company. (President: Four minutes and 30 seconds. What is he going to live on? The state signs a 5% commission contract, increases the price of gas by 60%, and no one from that country offers any explanation. If that's necessary, 150% and we'll tighten the belt, but let it be said. It cannot be written in this Rules of Procedure, Mrs Comic, that we have some rights, and that right to trample, that this Rules of Procedure is binding only on us, and not on you as the Presidency, the chairman or ruling coalition. (President: five minutes. ) Let us answer the question when we will get the gas price structure that is 60% higher today.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4140	The breach of Articles 200 and 202 did not occur, given that these members in the section of the Parliamentary Affairs refer to a session at which parliamentary questions are being asked. I said, in response to MP Slobodan Maraš, that I would propose tomorrow to the National Assembly president, regardless of the fact that there are no demands by the parliamentary groups to hold a session to which the ministers, the Prime Minister or the entire Government will be present, will be held, in the Rules of Procedure, a session at which parliamentary questions will be asked. National MP Slobodan Maras has sought and what are all the opportunities to force ministers to respect the National Assembly and to see the stenogram you can determine that we do not have a dispute and that we work together on it. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP of the People's Republic of Slobodan Maras. Here you go. National MP Slobodan Maras gets word for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100(1). FREEMARAŠ: Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Presidency, Madam Minister, Article 100 paragraph 2: "The National MP is obliged to specify which provision of the Rules of Procedure is injured in his opinion, to quote and explain what the injury consists of, with which he can speak for the longest three minutes, without counting the time needed to quote. "I repeat that the provision of article 200 has been violated, and the provision of article 104 has just been violated when you gave Mrs. Donki Banovic a word and when she spoke by members 225 and 226. You have previously taken my word from me, or removed me from the pay phone with your request, for I have dealt with parliamentary matters. I tried to explain to you that it was not a parliamentary question, but that it was an answer from the government, or a minister, and we now see that the point is not that we are asking questions, but that we cannot get an answer. I asked a bunch of questions the day of the debate. One of those questions was about the middleman, Jugorosgas, who takes 5%. To remind me once again, Djindjic's government abolished the mediator in 2001 because it is a major burden for the country. A new mediator -- Jugorosgas -- was introduced in 2006. At the time, I asked the question, and I really think it is necessary for Mr Skundric to answer, although he was not the energy minister at the time, but was Minister Popović Aleksandar of the Democratic Party of Serbia, which is why, in 2006, when Progress Trading offered its share in the "Yugorosgas" NIS, or the government to buy, the government kept quiet and then the Russian partner, or "Gasprom", bought another 25%, so now the owner of 75% of the "Yugorosgas". I'd like you to explain, since you've all advocated an agreement with the Russian Federation, that is, this gas-oil agreement, what is our country's relationship to the Russian partner when we allow him to be the owner of the broker we've established together, where he was 50:50. Let me remind you one more time, this middleman takes $40 million a year just because he collects it, nothing else is his responsibility. Because of the citizens of Serbia, because of the citizens of Vojvodina, who now bear the greatest burden because the gas has accumulated 60%, I repeat, the most expensive is in the environment, we need to get answers to these questions. If we can't get them, then it's Article 202, so it's a secret, it's a state secret how the price is formed, it's a state secret who's the middleman, it's a state secret that Dinkic introduced that mediator, it's a state secret that we pay the day-to-day... And then I asked the question, "How long will we have a middleman?" If we make a gas deal with Russia, how long will we have a gas broker? That's terribly important, I'm sure you agree. But to wait for me to schedule a new session, then a final session, and then two more months to get answers to those questions, Serbian citizens will pay 60% more expensive gas for two months, without any answer to that question. Thank you. As far as parliamentary matters are concerned, it is not a new session, when we finish the agenda points and at this session parliamentary questions can be asked. That's not a special agenda point. According to the Rules of Procedure, parliamentary issues can be asked at each session of the regular session, and after the end of all the agendas, it is a business rule. In order not to repeat one more answer, I agree with you that the government is in general and that every minister is obliged to respect the requirements, proposals and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that describes our rights and duties. I repeat, tomorrow I will also propose that the president of the National Assembly be scheduled for a session where parliamentary questions will be really asked. The word is, on the basis of Article 100(1), MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. He wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4142	Dear Madam Chairman, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, as quoted by the President, I report on violations of the Rules of Procedure and point to violations of Articles 198, 199, 200, and in relation to Article 202. These are members of Parliament's capacity and rights to apply their right to ask parliamentary questions, and my presentation is aimed at trying to protect the rights of MPs. Articles 198, 199 and 200 very clearly state the right of MPs to ask parliamentary questions, but also give the possibility to determine the nature of the way MPs are asked, as the parliamentary question can also be formulated in the context of regular and comprehensive presentation of individual MPs, as well as as as an individual parliamentary issue. Of course, I'd like someone to challenge my claims and I'd like someone to convince me that I can't interpret the legal norm. Accordingly, I would like to cite the example of Minister Tomica Milosavljevic, who, in my regular presentation, has qualified me as a parliamentary question and has given me an answer in writing and oral form to the question I asked in record time. I attribute this to the correctness of Minister Milosavljevic, but also to his personal interest that the problem at the Nis Clinical Centre which I pointed to and solved. Is the competent minister not interested in solving the problem discussed by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic and Slobodan Maras? Obviously there is no interest in giving an answer to that parliamentary question. That is why he is late to answer the question asked by his colleague, Marash, which makes it impossible for MPs to apply this right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4143	National MP, there are no violations of the Rules of Procedure, nor 198, nor 199, nor 200, nor 202. All the members to whom you have called refer either to the end of this session that is under way, at which parliamentary questions will be asked, or to a special session scheduled at the request of the parliamentary group by the President of the National Assembly. The parliamentary question, the information requested by MP Slobodan Maras is the information requested in the presence of the minister and, following repeated requests from MP Slobodan Maraš and other MPs, I say that there are ways to force the minister to give an answer when it comes to the requested information. He did not ask a parliamentary question, he asked for information and the minister is obliged to provide that information. This is not happening, and the MP rightly seeks which mechanisms to force the minister to give him the information he seeks. Please don't repeat what all mechanisms are, we know that, but I'm also asking you not to abuse the Rules of Procedure and to use Rule 100 when a procedure has been broken during this session. I have to give you an explanation that is usually given, an explanation based on article 85 of the extension of work. But this isn't the case. I don't know which other member to call for, except that one, and I'm gonna break it. It's about the RTS proposal, 1755 begins a direct transfer of the match Serbia - Denmark and we are asked to finish the session until then, which I am unable to do, so I mention Article 85, I have to work on the Rules of Procedure. They want to start passing on a meeting they claim is a public interest. The 85th article serves to inform that the time will be extended, and I have no member to call upon to inform you that the five-minute delay is five minutes, so I ask you to finish today's work in the afternoon. Now, on the basis of article 100, because he wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, he has a MP, Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4144	Thank you. I apologize for taking these two minutes to finish, but I think we're going to offer a solution that will stop us from reporting to the Rules of Procedure tomorrow. In fact, at first I have to say that I've come forward for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. Regardless of your persistent efforts to replace the thesis, the President of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. According to that member, the National Assembly president was obliged to provide a reply to Mr. Slobodan Marash. After 20 days had passed, he reminded her of her obligation and she again promised to deliver the answer. Unfortunately, we no longer have the opportunity to trust you, Madam Chairman, that the President of the Assembly will do something tomorrow when he returns from the official road, or the day after tomorrow, because if she had intended to do so, she would have done so by now. I call on you to exercise your right under Article 199 of Section 2: "The President of the National Assembly, on a proposal from the parliamentary group, shall, at least once a month, determine the day when individual ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia will answer parliamentary questions concerning any current topic. "I don't think there's a better member or a more current topic than the accumulation of gas and I ask you to, given that you are replacing the President of the National Assembly who is absent, determine that the day will be tomorrow and that Minister Skundric comes here and offers answers to all the questions we have asked, which are: the structure of cost increases, the issue of gas brokers and, of course, the explanation why the gas had to act so that today is more expensive than anywhere in the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-15-0.u4145	People's MP, I have no written request from any member of Parliament. I must, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, have a written request from any parliamentary group so that the president can schedule a session at which the Assembly will exercise its control function and control the Government. It is indisputable that we all agree, whether we belong to the ruling majority or to the opposition. I thank you for this relatively unusual ending of today's work day. We'll continue work tomorrow at ten o'clock.
