ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2464	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. Over the past week, six municipalities in Serbia and three district courts have returned to their verdicts and decisions of the SRS' kidnapped mandate. It was not only the Smedereva City Assembly and the Smederev District Court. As I said yesterday, on Tuesday, September 16, we activated the blank resignations of the councilors in the City of Smedereva Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2465	Mr. Maric, allow me. There have been no injuries to the Rules of Procedure since the beginning of the work, we have moved on to the agenda and you can apply an article. 225 and 226 in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2466	I have a question to ask. I called yesterday the second time, asked for an explanation, you didn't give me your word. I'll be brief, three minutes. So, we're...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2467	You've heard a lot, you know that every new day is new. I give you a warning, Mr. Maric. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Veselinović. You can't since yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2468	Today, according to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much, Mrs. Hajdukovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this terror of yours yesterday reminds me of Radomana Bozovic and reminds me of Mirko and Slavka when they were Dacic and Perčević. Member of Rules of Procedure 124. I was scared last night when Mrs. Kolundzija came out and started threatening here to seduce the order, that is, how the MPs were going to chicanate, and Mr. Ristic joined in...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2469	Mr. Veselinović, you've advertised the Rules of Procedure regarding the agenda point. If you have any objections regarding the agenda point, will you please listen to me. I'm by some chance president of the New Market City Assembly... (President: Please, Mr. Veselinović...) () Ask here what democracy is like in relation to what you are doing. Yesterday you wanted to adopt the agenda, or you didn't adopt the agenda, but the agenda proposal, and you didn't have most... (President: Please bring the end. Don't talk about the agenda. )......................................................................................................... So you said, Mrs. Dejanovic... (President: I take away your word for it, you have no word for it, Mr. Veselinovic. )......................................................................................................... That you didn't get a good deal at the MP's club. (President: I take away your word. Second warning. No, let's move on. Mr Avramović, according to the Rules of Procedure, which member and I ask you regarding the agenda point. Art. 225 and 226, if they are really analysed, they allow efficient work and enable the information of both MPs and the public on a subject that enables us to have a quality and good function of MPs. We've moved on to the agenda, and we can deal with the agenda. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2471	I'm advertising article 100. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. He says, "To a national MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the completion of the presentation of the previous speaker. ''St. 2:'''The People's MP is obliged to specify which provision of the Rules of Procedure is in his opinion injured, to quote, to explain what the injury consists of, with which he can speak for the longest three minutes, without counting the time needed to quote. '"Give me back my time. Now let me ask you, Madam Chairman, in what position does it say here that within three minutes I have to speak out in the first minute which member of the Rules of Procedure is it? You interrupted me here yesterday because I quoted some members of the Rules of Procedure, you asked me to leave the pay phone, you didn't give me back my time, and today you continue to apply these repressive measures from the early morning. Art. In 225 and 226, they don't have to have anything to do with the agenda. If the MP asked for information from the authorities, he must have it. That is clearly specified in this Rules of Procedure. Just because you have an agreement within the coalition's scoreboard to obstruct the opposition so it can't come to the answer she asked for, especially about the murder of Ranko Panic, doesn't mean that your warnings will scare us. So please, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, be principled, at least as you were the other day. Don't arrange an intra-party light coalition to take you on a road that has no return.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2472	Gentlemen, I'd like to read the article to the public once more. 225th and 226th and may I remind you that we have moved to the 1st point of the agenda of this session. The MP shall have the right to be informed of any questions necessary for the function of the MP. For a more complete notification, official publications of the National Assembly and of the information and documentation materials on issues on the agenda of the National Assembly and on other issues from the National Assembly’s section. Article 226: The National MP shall have the right to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the Chair of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on matters covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, and which he needs to exercise the functions of the MP. I remind you that we've moved on to the agenda and I'm asking you to work on the agenda today. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta has a word for it, adverts the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2473	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. When you started the session, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, at least 20 to 30 MPs reported that she was speaking according to the Rules of Procedure. You put your heads down and you kept reading and opening a search, you ignored the fact that the MPs wanted to speak in the Rules of Procedure because you missed it yesterday. You wanted to do it yesterday, but since you don't know the Rules of Procedure, you thought you actually did it, so then the secretary told you at 6:00 that you didn't actually open a single search and that you had to stop at 6:00. Today you are a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure, a harsh violation of the law. 100, showed that you actually support what is happening in the National Assembly, that you support the theft of mandates, that you support the end of the election will. Of course, you're not free in the yellow coalition, you forgot what happened to you at the time of Banet Ivkovic. It's an obvious deal, you've completely changed session management today and mode of work. Probably because you made a deal. We'll see about that during today's work. We Serbian radicals have never obstructed the work of parliament... We Serbian radicals will never obstruct the work of parliament. [[growls]] You never stopping, you on this yellow side, for this pay phone, but all you know is you're arlauing and laughing, that's your thing...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2474	Please take care of the terms you use.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2475	What? What do you call this?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2476	Please take care of the terms you use. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2477	What do you, Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, call what I can't call other than arlauking? Thank you for your applause, but you support those who steal the election will, you give support, and not just applause, immoral, dishonest people, morally fallen people, and there is no need to do such a thing when one of the Serbian radicals, Seselj's Serbian radicals, is on the assembly phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2478	Mrs. Radeta, I've just applied an article. The 100th that says - to the National MP, who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. I was the previous speaker, and I was supposed to finish the presentation, so I'll give you my word. We had to start work today. I was a speaker and immediately gave Mr. Maric my word after I finished. There's a word for Mr. Todorovic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2479	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Madam Chairman, Art. The 100th has already been quoted by previous MPs, but the first attitude to read and I, this I hope you will not count on in time -- the People's MP, who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, is giving the president of the National Assembly the floor right after the presentation of the previous speaker. What you quoted, Art. 225, you can't use it that way. This is Art. 225th says: The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the function of the MP. That's where it ends. I suppose it is the right of MPs to ask questions about matters that are extremely important for the work of this congregation. I know that "love and money can't hide." It's obvious that now we have here at work that the secret love, which has long been hidden, has now come to terms and that you express it at every moment and at every step. We don't mind that. We are only opposed to you trying to hide it and to present all of this as an obstruction of the SRS, which does not allegedly allow you to work on the agenda that is important to you. Personally, I think it is most important for the citizens of Serbia not to violate the Constitution and the law, not to end the electoral will of citizens. You're doing it brutally here. And it's not the first time. Whenever it suits you, you've violated it and abused it. But don't convince us that you've now forgotten everything you've done. Madam Chairman, just to remind you, not in some previous councils, but in this conference, I don't mean anything by it, but I remind you of some parties that at one point had certain reasons to appear in the Rules of Procedure. With circumstances, their number is as big as it is, so they had to appear two, three, four times to highlight the problems they had. We never said a single word. The fact that we're 60, that's now the problem you have to face. I would ask you to act on the same principle as you did in previous cases. You have to explain to the citizens...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2480	Mr. Todorovic, three minutes have passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2481	Thank you, but I asked you to count the time I quoted, but I'll do as you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2482	Mr Todorovicu, at the beginning of the work of the National Assembly, every day when the National Assembly is sitting, the President of the National Assembly informs the National Assembly of MPs who have been prevented, of the course of work, etc. So, I applied an ankle. In 88, and that's how she started today, and I didn't hurt her ankle. 100. I hope this explains enough. The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2483	Madam President of the National Assembly, you didn't just hurt an officer. 100, you've also injured Article 85(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. With your explanation, I must use that term to deceive the public and the citizens of Serbia, who, I suppose, are following Parliament's work, so they don't have to listen to this one or that one but make their own conclusions. You said that the next session will not be started today, as you predicted in the conference, but that it will be started when this session is over and that this delay is not in line with Article 85. The Rules of Procedure, but because of the fact that this session you opened was not possible. So we Serbian radicals insist on applying the Rules of Procedure. You haven't even explained to us what the reasons are in accordance with Art. 85th to work today, on a day that's usually an unworkable day for parliament. If you tell us that this is the urgency of passing laws related, as we hear in public, to the White Schengen List, then you should tell the citizens of Serbia that the DS is eight years in power in Serbia, that they have been promising the White Schengen List for eight years, that only three days ago they have submitted proposals to those laws to the MPs, and that what has not been discussed yesterday, that is, what is not discussed today, can only go to the soul of the DS, the ruling coalition, which you, too, Mrs Djukić-Dejanovic, belong to. You can't tell Serbian citizens yesterday it wasn't possible to hold a session. Yesterday, the National Assembly session was held, yesterday we were very active, and today, of course, we will be, as every time it comes to Serbian radicals. We are not icaban here, we fight here, first of all, for the interests of the citizens of Serbia. The interest of Serbian citizens is that this law-making parliament allows respect for the law, respect for the Constitution, on your part and on our part respect for the Rules of Procedure. We Serbian radicals will stand up and persist in our efforts, regardless of what you and the "yellows" agreed to take away the word, punish us, maybe throw us out. You can do whatever you want, most of it's a great force. I'm sorry, I broke 12 seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2484	Mrs. Radeta, let me inform you and the MPs that I will inform you on the day of the beginning of the next session. It's physically impossible to have two sessions at the same time. I just gave that notice. Today we are working to finish the session, because it is an extraordinary session, and the very conclusion that the extraordinary session is talking about the importance of the agenda. Here you go. Mr. Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2485	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Article 225 of Section 1, which says, "The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the exercise of the functions of the Members of Parliament." So I ask the chairman to let me know if the law in this country is the same for everyone, whether laws can be selectively applied and whether, as anyone wants, some of the laws...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2486	Mr. Markovic, we've moved on to the agenda. If you have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the explanations I have already given, please proceed, and if not, I will ask you to return to your post.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2487	Madam Chairman, in order to do the work of the MP, I need to know exactly about these things. First, how is it possible that the law for committees in the municipalities and cities is applied so that the parliamentary mandates...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2488	I'm taking your word. Don't talk about the agenda. Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2489	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have reported for breach of Article 27, or in accordance with Article 98(2). Madam President, because of everything that happened yesterday in this assembly and because you have decided accordingly to take responsibility and to lead this assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I suggest you, in accordance with Article 98(2), stop this and call for consultations of the heads of Parliament, to get out of this situation where we are, or to start working in accordance with the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2490	Thanks for the suggestion. I would like to inform both the public and the MPs that the consultation with the heads of the parliamentary groups yesterday was on several occasions, the last one since the completion of our work. We tried to make an effort to work on the agenda, with all the understanding that all the parliamentary groups have, but with the tendency not to deal with the issue of parliamentary groups but in the agenda. So, thanks for the suggestion. I will do so if the work continues to be disrupted, but I expect the MPs to start speaking in the agenda. You won't. Well, then we're gonna have to... Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2491	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, you allow the Rules of Procedure to be violated and broken by members of the DS. I am advocating a member of the 73rd to the Administrative Board, so that I do not count the views, to read to you where he says: "The Administrative Committee sets the sitting schedule for Members of Parliament in the Assembly Hall." I ask you, Madam Chairman, what will these MPs do in the first row? Please, if you're already trying to respect the Rules of Procedure, respect it till the end, be principled. Why are you asking only the SRS MPs to respect the Rules of Procedure, which allows your coalition partners to do so? I really don't think that makes sense. Maybe you think their beauty deserves to be in the front row. I don't mind the reasons. Should I read to you again Article 73, a position that says that the Administrative Board determines seats for MPs, or parliamentary groups. It clearly states that this front row on my right and this first row on the left is empty, that it is intended for representatives of the government and other persons invited by the President of the Assembly to attend the assembly session. Therefore, please respect the Rules of Procedure. I want to join you in respecting the Rules of Procedure in the Serbian Parliament, so if you want to and ask others, please ask me to ask that question to the DS members and tell them nicely, "Let's go to other lines, you have no right to sit here, because this violates the Rules of Procedure and thereby disrupts the work of this session and prevents Serbia from coming to the White Schengen list." That's the biggest problem you're doing here.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2492	I ask the MPs to sit in line with the schedule that has been made and enable members of the Government and present persons to sit in the front row when I call them. My suggestion was, when we have members of the government and invited persons, that the first order be released for them. He has the word Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2493	Dear People's MPs, Madam President, I'm advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure, Article 226, and I'm asking for a notice and an explanation from you: why are you criticising the SRS only? We know that you have crossed the electoral will of the citizens of Serbia, but we did not expect you to fit the dictatorship of Boris Thaci so quickly...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2494	Please take care of how you address and the terms you use.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2495	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you allowed yesterday, above all Mrs. Nadi Kolundžija, Srdjana Milivojevic, otherwise one sample that is not exactly an example of how it should behave in the National Assembly. All this stuff you're doing and what you want not to let the opposition bring out what he thinks, it won't work. A large number of citizens supported the SRS and national policy elections, and it is our obligation to endure this and not to allow you dictatorial stick to carry out here in the Assembly all that Boris Stalin is carrying out in Serbia. You're saying the SRS is obstructing parliament's work. Explain to us why you interrupted the session without any explanation and postponed it for 15 days, and then extended it to another 30 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2496	You don't have a constructive approach to work. I'm going to ask you either to adjust the contents or I'm going to ask you to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2497	I didn't understand, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2498	I understand the explanation, I understand your question, I will answer you, but now you're talking about topics that are really not current, which are familiar to citizens, MPs are famous, we talked about them on several occasions, no new notices, no new circumstances -- therefore, please bring the discussion to an end to continue the work.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2499	Yesterday you allowed, first of all, Mrs. Nadia Kolundjia to state some examples of SRS, some divorce cases, etc., and you had no objections. Let me tell you that when a marriage exists, there's a normal man and a woman. When someone, usually a woman...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2500	Please speak for three minutes and 25 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2501	In our people there is a name for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2502	I give you a warning about the length and contents of the speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2503	I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2504	Mr. Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2505	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating a violation of Article 216. I mean, earlier when I wanted to explain why I came out, because of your lesson and noise, you got drunk with authority, you wouldn't let me, I didn't even hear Mrs. Dejanovic tell me what she was saying. Therefore, I must say here you who are drunk with authority that you should listen to the MPs of the people because you insult the dignity of this assembly and all the MPs of this high house. Article 216, where an MP has the right to request explanations from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the National Assembly Committee, Article 226, and the order of other officials, as Nada Kolundzija has already read it. I would like to ask Mrs. President for an explanation of why yesterday she allowed the representatives of the government, or of these yellow Hope Kolundžija, Mr. Ristic, Srdjan, to come out here for a pay phone somewhere near the end, somewhere between 5 and 6 hours and suggest that the president of the National Assembly be repressed against the MPs of the opposition. Unfortunately, this is happening today, so I call on Mrs Dejanovic to explain to them today whether we will continue to work under this repression of ruling parties or the MPs will have equal rights to speak to the citizens of Serbia, to tell them the truth about what you are doing here and what your wish is, starting with some false promises, Schengen visas, and then, in turn, the ratification of some agreements that you have not reached in front of Serbian citizens, but unfortunately in Brussels you are welcomed negatively. Only thing left to do is make this Schengen visa something that is false for the citizens of Serbia. In that direction, I want Madam President to stand in the protection of the MPs of the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2506	Mr. MP, you have quoted Article 226, by which you should as an MP have the right to request my notice from the authority of my work, which you need to exercise the function of the MP. I couldn't figure out what to tell you without you knowing, informing you. I didn't want to take away your word or interrupt you, but I would ask all MPs in the future, regardless of the option in which they are, both political and parliamentary groups, not to abuse Article 226 in this way. Mr. Nikola Savic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2507	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, reporting in accordance with Articles 225 and 226. You quoted those members five or six minutes ago and I don't need to do that, but I noticed that these members will soon be out of the Rules of Procedure. All that is done is to bring a new Rules of Procedure and reduce the rights of Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2508	Since you do not speak according to the articles you quoted, you have no word, I warn you. Mr. Skribic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2509	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 225. The Rules of Procedure, and I would like to ask the President of Parliament, the President of Parliament, to allow me, to grant me permission to read it so that I don't be interrupted. Yes, I quote.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2510	You have the right to quote the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2511	I quote this for the sake of Serbian citizens, not for your sake, gentlemen, which you say: "The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the exercise of the function of the MP. For a more complete notification, official publications of the National Assembly and information and documentation shall be regularly provided to Members of the National Assembly, on issues on the agenda of the National Assembly (which is not true) and on other issues from the National Assembly's work. For the sake of the public, I will say that Madam President of the National Assembly is the first among the same here in this assembly, among 250 MPs and its vote is the same as mine and yours. I would like all MPs to be respected. Apparently, there are no more traffic lights in the coalition, only there's a traffic light and a yellow light at the traffic light, which blinks all the time yellow, and other colors aren't on the traffic lights... Please, Madam President, calm down those who earn.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2512	You're absolutely right, I ask the MPs to allow the atmosphere to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2513	I can't be distracted, but if you're taking care of the opposition, then take care of both the position and their behavior. It is obvious that the instructions, following Hope Kolundzija's speech here after this pay phone in the afternoon or evening hours yesterday, had an impact on you and on the instructions given by Boris Tadic - how the Assembly will continue to be led - and obviously the proximity of Mrs Comic, who is the second of you on your left, influenced you to look like her, as she led the Assembly at the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2514	Please, you're out of time. Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2515	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I will quote the Rules of Procedure, so there is no need for the Secretary to speak to you at all and don't accidentally interrupt me, because I know this perfectly and it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'm gonna have to change the order right now. [[growls]] I'm reporting from article 100 and from article 103. Rules of Procedure, Rule 3: 'In the course of the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw away, or interfere with the speaker in any other way, as well as any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech. 'Cause the second day in a row, we've had a situation like this. I don't know who's doing the obstruction here. I have a feeling and a deep belief that obstruction is being conducted by a new advanced democratic party, whether or not it's being called, it seems to me that it is, but I didn't want to talk about it either. Madam President, Article 225 - People’s MP has the right to be informed of all the questions needed to perform the function of the MP. It is very important to me, because of the citizens I contact, that I know if I have a duty tomorrow and Sunday to be in the National Assembly or I can devote my time to the citizens of Serbia, based on whose opinion and trust I am in this place. The obstruction is being carried out by an advanced democratic party, as it is obvious that when there was no temporary defreezing of the trade agreement, they remained decapitated. The only consistent, sure, is said that we do not support and disagree with the LDP policy, but it seems to me the only consistent in that...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2516	Please, sir, the content you are now presenting is not in line with the advertising of the Rules of Procedure. That part of the Rules of Procedure that you advertised, I'll give you an answer, but I ask you to emulate the content of the statement by advertising the Rules of Procedure and the member you listed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2517	This is about connecting the questions I need to tell you. And finally, in order to know how to behave, I have to ask you when will the mandates of the SRS, which won 78 seats in the 11 May elections? I have one more question, in accordance with Article 225, Madam President, there's no need to consult, don't worry, I wouldn't allow myself as a graduate lawyer to violate the Rules of Procedure. I have one more question. Yesterday, you remained in debt to Mr. Mirko Munjic. This is hypothetical, this can never happen, but what if a group of citizens who have now, with your favor, entered the Assembly, remain under any conditions without one MP, let's say the first amongst the advanced ones becomes the minister of police, who will be the next MP? I want us to know that the SRS is preparing, because we've always tried so hard.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2518	Please, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2519	I'm sorry, I had time to quote the Rules of Procedure for 50 seconds. Just one more question, so we know and we can get ready in time, because the SRS has always brought the best on the list, and now we want to make the timely preparations.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2520	Please don't talk about the content of the advertising part of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2521	This is the best content related to what I've reported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2522	I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2523	I'm sorry, I have to say, I've decided before to leave, before you've said a warning, so a reminder doesn't apply to me, I said I'm leaving now.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2524	It doesn't work. Please, because of the importance of the agenda, about the start of the next session and when we're going to work, I'll let you know when this session is over. So, are we going to work tomorrow? Yeah, if we don't finish it today. As for the other questions you asked, I estimate that the MPs and citizens of Serbia are the explanations I gave yesterday regarding the mandates in memory. So yesterday we talked about the authority of the Assembly, the Administrative Committee, the RIK and all other institutions participating in mandates and decision-making on mandates. I wouldn't say that again today if I didn't underestimate you. Mr. Peric is right, he got away before I gave the warning, coincided with his departure from the pay phone and my warning, so there was practically no warning. Mr Avramovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2525	Madam Chairman, I am advocating the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104(3), Article 105(2), Article 106(4). Please don't count my time. For the sake of the public, I want to read these views. Article 104 — is not allowed to use offensive expressions, nor is it to give facts and assessments regarding the private life of others. I'll explain later why I advertised this. Article 105 paragraph 2 - due to a breach of order at the session, the President of the National Assembly may impose measures: warning, confiscation of words or distance from the session. Article 106 of indent 4 — if a speaker interrupts or throws, or interferes with the speaker, or otherwise endangers freedom of speech. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you have injured all three of these members. At one point when he was behind the speaker of the SRS, it refers to the privacy of the DS, one of the copies explained the size of his copy, and it is a personal internal matter of DS, more specifically related to their private life. You were obliged to warn that MP, to give the MP a warning measure and, at the very end of the line, to inform him that he can't treat his private life like this, about a private party, from a place where he doesn't belong, in fact not from a pay phone, but from a bench. Therefore, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, as you apply the repressive measures of the Rules of Procedure only to the MPs of the SRS, please pay a little attention to the left to continue this session properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2526	I ask the Members of Parliament to grant peace, quiet and conditions for proper work. Mr. Dusan Maric answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2527	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising the infringements of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 84, 100, 103, 104, 105, 106, 225 and 226, and in accordance with this violation of those Rules of Procedure, you have also violated Rule 27, which says you care about the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please give me back my time, I will now quote the members of the Rules of Procedure. In writing, Article 84 - president of the National Assembly determines the day and time of the meeting of the National Assembly, with a proposal for a agenda, at least seven days before the session is convened. I got a call for a session, a telegram last night at 6:00 p.m. and 57 minutes, for a session that started yesterday at 10:00 p.m. There was no theoretical opportunity for me to prepare myself for this session. A member of the 100 - nation MP, who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, gives the National Assembly a word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. Yesterday I answered my word at least five MPs from the DS and you gave me no word during the day. Article 103 — no one can interrupt a speaker or warn him, except for the president of the National Assembly in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. During the speech of MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw away, or interfere with speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure that endangers freedom of speech. The whole time I've been speaking to the DS MPs, you're obliged to respect the Rules of Procedure, I'm going to ask for an audio recording of this session, a video, where it's seen that the whole time I'm being exposed, it's taking me a while to throw away the MPs of the DS. You were obliged to stop it. Article 104 MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. With their behaviour, the DS MPs violated it, and you didn't stop them. Member of the 105th session of the National Assembly is the president of the National Assembly. You obviously didn't do it. Article 106 - warns to the MP: - who approached the speaker without permission of the National Assembly; I did not do it; - who spoke before he asked and received a word; I did not do it; - who, despite the warning of the president of the National Assembly, is talking about a question that is not on the agenda; I reported on Article 225, I began on the issue of parliamentary mandates in Smederev, and believe me, I wanted to finish with the agenda point - the selection of members of the National Bank Council. The next thing you know, if he interrupts a speaker in exposure or throws away a speaker, or otherwise threatens freedom of speech. I have not violated this position of the Rules of Procedure. "If it brings out facts and assessments concerning the private life of other persons." I didn't do it either. "If he uses swearing and offensive expressions; - if other actions violate order... "I ask you, at the end of my presentation to the MPs, to the citizens of Serbia, to explain why you gave me the warning. Articles 225 and 226, on the basis of which I have reported, give me the absolute right to seek an explanation for an attempt at electoral theft in which the judicial authorities of the Serbian state are tightened. Please give me the answers to the questions in article 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2528	You're talking about a subject that's on the agenda and I'm warning you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2529	Based on what?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2530	You're talking about an election theft. All the time you've been advertising the Rules of Procedure, looking for certain explanations and answers to questions, you've been acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The moment you...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2531	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2532	Thank you, too. As far as the call is concerned, or the calls that you were given, you know that during the regular session the call should be served at least seven days before. We're in an emergency session right now, and this is an emergency session. In that case, the President of the Assembly has the right, in accordance with Article 84(2), to say: an exceptional notification of the time and place of session and agenda may be delivered within a short period, with the President of the National Assembly obliged to explain such a procedure at the beginning of the session, which I did. As far as the order goes, Miss Jovanovic and I really, really thank her for that, taking care of that order, and I don't think it's ever happened that the two of us don't get along, and we're looking together, and it's never tended to be called out without giving a word to anyone else. I'm asking her to come forward as well. As far as pitching is concerned, I'm taking another opportunity to take care of the dignity of the Assembly all of us, and I think I'm occasionally making certain warnings, is that as frequent as it might be, it might not be, but here's to agree that from now on, it's more frequent. As to the reasons why I gave you the warning, everyone you cited was not exactly in this case, except for one, that you were talking about an issue that was not on the agenda and that was the reason for the warning I made. Mr. Milenkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2533	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and I advertise the violation of Article 103(2), which reads: 'No one can interrupt a speaker or warn him, except for the president of the National Assembly in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. 'As my fellow SRS MPs spoke, they were constantly interrupted by some unarticulated screams on this left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2534	Please take care of the terms you use.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2535	I think the terms I use are currently quite appropriate and that they faithfully paint the situation in this House as the MPs of the SRS address themselves. You, Madam President, have not responded. The Serbian Radicals spoke of the crucial problems of the Serbian state, of the crucial problems in parliament, of stealing the mandate, of ending the electoral will of citizens, of violating basic democratic and electoral principles, of all that the Democratic Party...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2536	You are talking about content that is not in line with the advertising of the Rules of Procedure. Please, either go back to the subject of advertising the Rules of Procedure or get it over with.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2537	So everything my colleagues talked about interests all Serbian citizens, and DS members and members of the SRS. Individuals interrupted my colleagues' exposure, and you didn't respond. One of your duties under this Rules of Procedure is to provide the speaker with the opportunity to deliver their statements in peace. I'd understand if you missed it, but it's quite certain that you've had an insight into all the events and that you didn't deliberately secure order during my colleagues' speech. So you violated Article 103. Rules of Procedure and I ask for an explanation as to why, is it because of the encouragement of your ideological and coalition leaders, that you be completely committed to the project, where the principle of morality is sacrificed to the principle of political usefulness.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2538	Mr. Ambassador, your question is clear to me and I am ready to answer. You don't need to elaborate any further. I understand the question. Tossing and using offensive words affects the atmosphere negatively, and I really ask MPs to neither earn nor use offensive words. There was a comment yesterday, a real comment, a verbalization from the scene, and I didn't give anyone any notice, so probably not to the MPs of either side. I will work hard and try to have the exact same attitude toward all MPs, and there is no tendency. The tasks you think I am accomplishing arise from my firm stand to act in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure, there are no other orders, fellow MP. Thank you. Mr. Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2539	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I am advocating a violation of Article 103(3) and Article 106(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. No need to quote, they quoted Article 103 as just quoting Article 106, which says in paragraph 4, that the reminder is made to the MP if the speaker interrupts or throws, or interferes with the speaker, or otherwise endangers freedom of speech. Madam President, yesterday I was behind this pay phone and all that is stated in article 103 and 106 happened to me, I was unable to answer, and half of my time went by in the debate with the MPs who threw it away. But I don't mind that, they obviously had the intention of solidarity with you and helping you in that way. You are their choice, and that's fine, but you can't apply double arches when it comes to applying the Rules of Procedure, especially on your part, because you're not just a folk MP, you're certainly the President of the Assembly, and that makes you most obliged to all of this. What I'm also trying to say in this context is the fact that you gave notices to the MPs of the SRS, the first two who were not in a position to speak because of being thrown off this left-hand side. That warning measure carries with it some financial consequences that don't matter in principle, but I don't think they're justified on your part, and I don't think it would be too bad if you took those notes back. You are obviously either not ready or not in a situation to face the problem in this congregation. I will never accept the fact that you're part of a yellow mile and a yellow ambience and, well, I would try to appeal to you this way. Someone just reminded you of some other members of the Rules of Procedure, whom you can carry out certain consultations, to accept something that is reality and reality. Madam President, European principles, European values and democratic principles cannot be promoted with a parallel violation of the electoral will of citizens, by kidnapping the mandate and ending the electoral will. Once again, I ask you to use your political authority, not to allow for work on the agenda, but to return the mandates of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2540	The answer to this question would be most likely to repeat the previous response from a few minutes ago, so I have no intention of insulting the MPs of the SRS. That would make me realize something that doesn't stand. Your memory is very, very good. The word is Tomislav Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2541	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Madam Chairman, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100. For what reason? Because yesterday I applied for a speech on the Ministry of the Interior report, on the death of one person at the SRS rally, and it is perfectly normal that after the interruption of yesterday's session, today's session should have its normal course, that we 10-15 SRS MPs should have our priority and continue. I think on that basis you violated the Rules of Procedure and in the day of the Rules of Procedure's violation, I would like this violation of the Rules of Procedure to be found on the agenda. In yesterday, we were quite appropriate, representatives of the SRS, just according to the Report, and it is quite normal that the dissatisfaction of the representatives of the SRS in that part was in place because the report presented was not adequate. We have in our signature certain advisers, Chief Inspector, which ultimately does not give one credibility to the Ministry of the Interior, to sign simple representatives, ministers and therefore in the report...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2542	I would ask that the content be consistent with the reasons I gave you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2543	You have directed the course of yesterday's session in terms of the dissatisfaction of the representatives of the SRS, and until that moment, we have at no time expressed any dissatisfaction with a certain group that has left the SRS, and this time I ask you...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2544	I'm going to ask you to either speak in accordance with the observations you have, or the reasons you've come forward, or I'm going to ask you to bring an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2545	I would ask you to be patient and ask if you are in progress and if you know it. We had a group of representatives of the SRS, MPs who went out. In one day there was a group called "Forward, Serbia".
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2546	It's a question for the minister. We forwarded that question to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2547	I'd like you to listen to me. Do you even know that wandering society where the position is now and what name they're wearing now? Once there were "Forward, Serbia", next time there were Progressives, and I would ask you today where they are and do you simply rule the situation if you knew how many parliamentary groups you have in parliament? Is it possible that today they changed the name of their group, that they had a third or fourth variant? In this case, you do not rule the situation as many parliamentary groups as we have.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2548	I understand the question, and I'm ready to answer it. In this parliament there is a "Forward, Serbia" parliamentary group, and it otherwise has 22 minutes and 48 seconds at this point. The word is Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2549	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come to you for an article. 103 and 104. I will have to warn the President of the Assembly that when it comes out with certain facts about how the opposition interferes with the work of the Assembly, it will take into account the facts she knows very well, and this also applies to the Secretary of the Assembly. You insist and ask for the emergency procedure at the emergency session of this assembly to be passed certain laws and made public with the information that this is necessary for the Schengen visa. You're saying the opposition is obstructing the fact that the laws that matter to Schengen visas are not passed. It is, first of all, untrue and you as President of the Assembly cannot and do not have the right, you violate the laws, you violate the rules, because you do not present the actual facts. The laws were prepared in the ministries a year and more, the government adopted them two, three, four months ago. Why did you interrupt your session on July 21st and not for almost two months...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2550	The same warning and request remain: please speak according to the reasons for which you received the word. You've advertised the Rules of Procedure, we're at a certain point in the agenda. Here you are, at the scheduled time, but don't go back to what we've talked about many times. It's simply not in line with the agenda, and I'm going to have to take away your word, of course, before I warn you, and I don't want to warn you. I'd like you to bring the end yourself. If there's anything else related to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2551	You're breaking the Rules of Procedure because you had to do an emergency procedure the moment you got all the documents and bills by the government to schedule a session of the Assembly, and you didn't do it. You're accusing the opposition of her not having a congregation, and you're the one calling the Assembly. You go public with incorrect data and the fact that the opposition doesn't want the laws that matter to Schengen visas to be passed. It's a lie to the citizens of Serbia. You know the opposition can't call on the Assembly, you call on it, and you can't go out with such facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2552	As for calling a session, you know I'm obliged to call a session when the motionor delivers a certain text and in a certain procedure. The moment either a group of MPs of at least 84 or a government sent a text, I called for a session at the time. The fact that it is possible during the extraordinary session to be shorter than seven days, we have already elaborated, so I have acted in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. That's the answer to your question. Mr. Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2553	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Madam President of Parliament, in the light of the provisions of the article. 225 and 226. I am asking the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the question to you, to forward it to the Government, and I ask for an answer. What did the Croatians buy from companies in Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2554	Mr. Jojic, you have a lot of experience, a lot of knowledge, and I really appreciate it. We are at a very specific point in the agenda, and we really cannot discuss now all the issues that come to mind with any MP. I would ask you, Mr. Jojic, to ask a question in writing and be forwarded to the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2555	Where does it say I have to go in writing?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2556	Since we're already on this agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2557	No, I'm sorry. Is it true that the Croatian company bought "Frikom", at which price, when and how many workers were fired from the company? Because citizens have the right to know and ask the question of workers.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2558	It can go in the form of a parliamentary question, but not when we're at the agenda point, Mrs. Radeta knows it perfectly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2559	I don't feel like you're Natasha Micic, and I didn't get the impression when you were put on that function. I point out this well-intentioned, yet you are the President of Parliament, you are not Louis XIV to be in the XVII century of absoluteists. Please be patient again. We Szeljevci, Serbian radicals, are asking you and the DS to return the mandates of the SRS... (President: Please finish, lest I give a warning.) I'll finish. These are the mandates of the SRS. It is inalienable that, by the Constitution and by law, the mandates are returned. That's why DS shouldn't be involved. (President: I give you a reminder. ) Therefore, you, as speaker of parliament, do not cooperate in any theft and withdrawal of the mandate of the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2560	Mr. Sladjan Mijaljevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2561	Dear gentlemen, the presidency, I'm advertising and I'm looking for an explanation for Article 226. I don't understand how you interpret it. The MP shall have the right to request a notice and an explanation, so that the persons and functions, in the end, whose head they are at, and which he needs to carry out the function of the MP. You see, life goes on, things happen, certain things happen, certain statements are made, some statements are so inappropriate, some events are so negative that they cause really big turbulence in the people and they ask people, voters, and so are we here, certain questions. It doesn't say anywhere that these problems that occur and that demand to be answered by an emergency procedure, there's no saying that it has to be placed at some special point, on some special day, because life doesn't wait. (President: Mr. MP, finish up. We, the People’s Messengers, are obliged to give some people an explanation to all those who voted for us. We can't wait for the next six months for the point to come up differently so that you can give us the answers to this. Nowhere in Article 226 is said to be asked by the agenda. I guess those who wrote this Rules of Procedure, I think, had a much broader understanding and vision of this issue, that is, what the Rules of Procedure should have covered, than what you now want to explain. On the other hand, Article 46, freedom of speech, freedom of opinion, you have repeatedly denied us today and yesterday the right to ask questions, for us very important questions. We got the report, which caused us very negative emotions, we explained what emotions they were and what they were like, it was about the death of a man, and today we're asking questions on certain subjects again, and we're getting... (President: We are on the agenda. )......................................................................................................... some very unmistakable answers. Where does it say at 226 that it has to be tied to the agenda point? Something happened yesterday, something happened the day before yesterday, you were making certain statements yesterday, and we're looking for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2562	Thank you. It is clear to me that you understand the meaning of Articles 225 and 226, but that you also have a tendency to send certain political messages, and we can understand that if you are working in the Assembly. We'll also have to work on the agenda, and I fully understand the trends. Here you go, Mrs. Vervaine Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2563	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President of the National Assembly just now said that she knows that I know the Rules of Procedure well and thank her for that opinion, I really know the Rules of Procedure, I know that it is extremely restrictive, I know that it makes it impossible for Members of Parliament to restrict us at a time when there is a principle debate, and amendments and parliamentary issues, etc., and we know that it has nothing to do with democracy, that the MP should and can speak as much as he wants and about what he wants. People's MPs are here to pass laws, but they are, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, and to send political messages. Of course, we Serbian radicals don't hide it. But we will not allow you to impose on the citizens of Serbia the belief that we're doing this is guilty of not passing the law, or responsible for not passing the law, for which the responsibility is solely the authority, and you know it well, and we will not allow you to impose an attitude that we are talking about something that we do not have the right to talk about. The parliamentary issues, Madam President of the National Assembly, are regulated. 198, 199, 200, 201 and 202. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You have never, since the President of Parliament, allowed MPs to ask parliamentary questions and you have never, like the one before you, put it on the agenda. It is true that there are members of 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure of the People's Assembly, by which the People's Messenger can intervene, ask for a session to be interrupted, so that you may know, so that you may inform the Messengers of the people, if something has happened which the Messengers think they should speak of. And don't try to turn the water on that mill. We will use all the members of the Rules of Procedure that are at our disposal, we will explain, above all, to the citizens of Serbia, we will ask in front of the citizens of Serbia, we do not have reserved terms on RTS or on Pink, and this is not an abuse. We will daily ask Serbian citizens for a response from Boris Tadic and the DS -- when will the SRS return the kidnapped mandates?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2564	With respect to the constructive part of your statement, I promise that during the regular session I will schedule a session with the possibility of asking parliamentary questions, you are absolutely right. Dr. Gordana Paunovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2565	I'm advertising a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. That the ruling coalition intends to ban SRS MPs from speaking in this National Assembly and in this distinguished parliament according to the Rules of Procedure will not succeed. The SRS in this assembly wants to preserve the dignity of this assembly and does not want the Serb people to separate, but to bring it together. That's why the SRS doesn't hate anyone and don't expect an SRS hate speech, because the SRS wants to unite Serbia, not separate it. The unprincipled coalition, which, dear viewers, I am saying this because of the viewers, the citizens of Serbia, is on my left, does not want peace and co-operation to rule in Serbia and this assembly. Obviously, they always want to make a conflict between those they place in their own and others, I mean the opposition and the SRS. I think it is God who we thank and that in Serbia there is an SRS that will always tell the citizens of Serbia and also the MPs of the ruling coalition what he thinks, and that he has the right, according to the Rules of Procedure, to speak, and that no one in this assembly, unless the Rules of Procedure changes, has the right to prevent the citizens of Serbia. Once again, the SRS wants her to be returned to the mandates that we have received, which were taken away by 18 MPs from the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2566	The word is Mr. Nikola Žutić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2567	Dear Members, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, 225 and 226. At the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, held on July 18th, I asked the government a parliamentary question. I quote: "I must express my fear shared by my colleagues in science that Mr Bozidar Djelic will not do the job of the Minister of Science and Technological Development. First, he will be too busy to deal with scientific topics and in the first place will be his post as Deputy Prime Minister. Secondly, in his professional biography there is no mention of any experience in the scientific field, which means that the Ministry will lead...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2568	Mr. MP, this content that you are now reading and probably dissatisfaction if the answer has not arrived is not in line with the agenda point. He has to say, but we have agreed that today we are talking about those points of the agenda and your willingness and your information that as MPs you participate in quality by these points of the agenda. In case Mr. Djelic, I won't include you at the time of what I'm saying, he didn't give an answer. I'll no longer hire you to get it. You're not satisfied? We can't really talk about that kind of dissatisfaction on this agenda. I will engage, if possible, that the Government gives a quality answer to which you will be pleased.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2569	My predecessors have explained in detail the Rules of Procedure, and especially Verica Radeta, all members of the Rules of Procedure, who say that all parliamentary questions can be freely raised. I'm not happy with the minister's answer. Okay, I can deliver in writing, so...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2570	Please deliver in writing. Thank you. The word is Mr. Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2571	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 226, where the MP has the right to request information and explanations from the President of the National Assembly (this, above all, refers to the President of the National Assembly), which he needs in order to achieve the function of the National Assembly. What's this about? I ask for an explanation from the President of the National Assembly: Can the President of the National Assembly protect the MPs? What am I saying this for? In last night's statement by the head of the DS parliamentary group and some other DS MPs, we heard hidden threats sent to the SRS. How are we supposed to do the duty of the MP when we had to think this morning if someone wanted to kill us, arrest us, tie us up, hide us in the basements, like you've been hiding Radovan Karadzic for three days? Now I ask you, do you tolerate an invitation to a link against an SRS MP? Do you tolerate the asphyxiation of the freedom of opinion of the MPs? Did you warn Ambassador DS Hope Kolundji? I would draw attention if you weren't trying to look like King Milan Obrenović and terrorise the radicals. Because King Milan Obrenovic liked to drink, he was an absoluteist, he had a mustache, unlike you, and most importantly, he had an advanced party with him. I also ask the President of the National Assembly to explain to us why it prevents the MPs of the SRS from informing themselves of who stole their parliamentary mandates...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2572	I'd like to ask you to compare the content of this subject that is today.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2573	Why are you stopping the SRS from looking for the truth about the murder of Ranko Panic? As for Article 226, there is no mild link between him and the agenda, as the SRS deputies have said so far. Here, for example, what would have happened if there had been another explosion, like it was two years ago in Paracino. Now here as an MP from Paracina... (President: Time is up, and please don't let me give you a warning, you want to finish, it's been three minutes. )......................................................................................................... I should wait for the agenda to pass, then talk about that disaster that happened. You could also give a notice, what was broken in your head overnight, so you could act dictatorically towards the MPs of the SRS?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2574	Would you like to bring the contents to an end? About the fears you've brought, and about the appearance of an MP, I haven't really seen it. All MPs are now informed, both the public and certain institutions that are obliged to respond in case they determine that these fears are justified. Mrs Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2575	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating damage to members 100, 103 and 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the conduct of the ruling majority and the president of the National Assembly, I recognize my kind of mobing when responsibility for this work of the Assembly shifts to the MPs of the opposition...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2576	Where's the injured Rules of Procedure, Madam Ambassador?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2577	Art. 103 and 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2578	I heard the members, but where, what?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2579	Read the Rules of Procedure, explain why the Rules of Procedure is injured as I can, and you will explain to me at the end of my discussion how you can, or how you are suggested. Can I go on?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2580	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2581	Our law doesn't know the concept of mobbing, but it forbids chicing, degradation of individuals and groups, regardless of excuses. We have since the constitution of the National Assembly faced with the behaviour of the majority, which is seen in convening meetings of the Assembly of SMS messages, by extending the work of the Assembly which is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, by excluding the microphones of the MP who has exceeded speech time for two or three sentences, by the contrary to the article that I mentioned 103, by unifying the debate, as an attempt to force individual laws on a small door, without a detailed and detailed debate, and who otherwise waited a year to put themselves on the agenda and similar, to a completely incomprehensible interruption of the work of the National Assembly for a month. It's all urgent, and the assembly isn't working. I don't get it. In doing so, the ruling majority accuses the opposition of obstruction, constantly threatening us in pro-European media. That's really outrageous. It is clear to us that this passion is, in fact, the preparation for the resignation of the government because of incompetence, independence, and thus the inability to fulfill each other's promises, blackmail and threats, so that held interests and lives of citizens are not important. Given that the government divides Serbian citizens by example or by order of Boris Tadic, some can beat themselves up, kill each other without any responsibility. Gentlemen of power, are you just osions and boast, or is that your new model of democracy, your variant of democracy? You may wish for bigger conflicts, counting on citizens not to suffer this. Do you fulfill the orders of those who have so skillfully gathered you together? Is there an answer to these questions? The public asks you: Who arrests Serbia, whose services and armies are operating in this country? Whose country is this? Who did you give the right to do this to, and no ministry knows what's going on? Then what are you going to do to us? Why do we need such a power, who needs it? You've exceeded your time, Madam MP. One more sentence. Respect the law, return the mandates of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2582	Your questions were whether or not I tolerated the shagging, the degradation, as we schedule the assembly sessions. As far as the first two findings are concerned, I'm really sending verbal messages, so far, that all inappropriate behaviors, from any side to come, are not in order and harm to the Parliament's dignity. As for how to call the session, it's always been the way it is in the Rules of Procedure - in writing. As you organize when you have your own clubs, it depends on who and how they organize that meeting and how they say you call a meeting of parliamentary clubs. Mr. Jeremic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2583	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, Madam President, Your Honor, Madam Vice President, depending on how much we agree in some of the findings, my advertising of violations of the Rules of Procedure will also be directed. So, Madam President, do we agree that every government is corrupting, and absolute power is ruining absolutely? (President: Are you saying which member of the Rules of Procedure are you advertising? I will. Given that members of 104 and 105 are somewhat respected, I'm advertising the violation of Article 100. The Rules of Procedure, since, as President of the National Assembly, you are obliged to provide an explanation of what the MPs are talking about here, and I believe that one of the basic principles of democratic legal systems is that everyone is equal before the law. I can't understand that, as president of the National Assembly, you still can't explain how it is that a group whose SNS has been abbreviations, just as Branislav Ivkovic once was, can and with what right to take 18 SRS parliamentary mandates.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2584	The word is Mr. Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2585	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I can say the presidents, but I express myself as provided for by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I advertise, as you are asking, Madam President Slavica Djukic-Dejanović, and is also requested by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that we, the MPs who advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, quote, advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Rule 104 and, in relation to Article 226. What's this about? The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and that stands. These provisions should be followed by all MPs, and not only in the manner of conduct, in the words we say for this speaker, but also in what is important, but also in what is more important than manners and ways of conduct, by the fact that this too is necessary, that we respect the Constitution, the laws, and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which has the meaning of the law in this room. In this case, we don't do it. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I understand your need, and you yourself said that you understood that we MPs of the SRS are presenting for this speaker certain questions that we consider useful not only for the state, but also for the citizens who voted for the SRS. We understand your need to prevent us from doing so, probably in your own personal opinion or in agreement with someone who is the same in the structure of the government, specifically with Tadic, however, I am not getting into it, but it is obvious today that you are persistently trying to prevent the MPs of the SRS from showing you the violation of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Article 226, which I was invited to, states that the MP has the right, does not write - neither in writing, nor in a pay phone, is meant at the plenary session, means in a plenary session, to point out certain questions and to ask for explanations from ministers, according to Article 226, and officials in other republican bodies. We have a report by Mr. Ivica Dacic, Minister of the Interior, on what happened on July 29th at the SRS rally, where many citizens, MPs, were beaten, where Ranko Panic was killed. I know none of you wanted to get to the murder of a young man, no matter what party he's from. No one wanted to. There's been an over-authorization. We asked to determine exactly who ordered it, who organized it, who did it, and nothing else. We also ask you, as president of the National Assembly, to influence all your co-workers in the structure of government to provide a precise, detailed report to the National Assembly. Finally, without your warning, I ask you, as president of the National Assembly and the DS, to return the mandates of the SRS, which one group of my former colleagues and friends kidnapped, on behalf of which and for which we in the SRS know it and we will talk about it at a given time and when the time comes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2586	Mr. MP, you were talking about a content that was not in line with Article 104 that you listed. You're out of time. I don't want to make a warning, but I do ask the MPs to coordinate their performance with the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Veronica Radeta has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2587	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of Article 27 of Section 1, which says that "the President of the National Assembly is doing the work provided for in the Constitution", including with regard to Article 226. The Rules of Procedure, which has been cited several times today, and Article 92. Law on the selection of Members of Parliament. I'll quote Article 92. The law, and about everything I've mentioned before. "If, on the basis of Article 88(1) of this Law, the member of parliament is suspended before the time in which he was elected, the term of office shall be assigned to the new MP, in a manner determined by this member. When the MP ceases his term before the time he has been elected, in the cases referred to in Article 1, the term of office shall belong to a political party whose election lists have been elected by an MP whose term of office has ceased and the term of office shall be assigned to the candidate on the electoral list for which the party has not received the term of office. When the MP ceases his term before the time he has been elected, in the cases referred to in Article 1, and on the election list from which he was elected, there are no candidates for which the applicant of the electoral list has not received the term of office, the term shall belong to the applicant of the electoral list which has the next largest number, and shall not be given the term of office for it. The term of office of the new MP shall continue until the end of the term of office of the Members to whom the term of office has ceased. In the cases referred to in Articles 2 and 3, before the terms of office, candidates shall obtain written consent to accept the term of office. "I don't think there is anyone in Serbia after this public statement in 92, and you knew that even before I quoted this, to whom it is not clear that the SRS parliamentary group, contrary to the law and the opposite of the Constitution, are kidnapped mandates. We insist that the assembly majority, that Boris Tadic, who has really introduced the dictatorship into Serbia, also shows it this way, because he changed Parliament's position overnight, so we ask Boris Tadic to return the mandates of the SRS. Who he's in the coalition with, when those who took his mandates with him into the coalition, that's not our problem. Some members of this present congregation coalition are likely concerned about that. That's really not what the SRS is interested in. He's giving them mandates from his list, so get them into the government, that's your business, but as far as the SRS is concerned, we insist that our mandates be returned in accordance with Article 92 quoted. Just please, Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanović, because I've timed out, don't explain to us that it's not in your jurisdiction. It is within the authority of the assembly majority and Boris Tadic, who is also the organiser of the failed coup in the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2588	No one's answered the word again. I'm taking a half-hour break. I'm asking the heads of Parliament to come for a brief consultation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2589	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon part of today's work day. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is pronounced by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2590	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman Komic, I am reporting to the Rules of Procedure in terms of the provisions of Article 226 and I ask, as provided for by this member, you will allow me first to quote it - that the MP has the right to request information and explanations from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers, officials and others, not to list. I'm looking for an explanation and a notice on who's the buyer of the Somboled company, at what price was it sold and when? So, who, when and at what price? Are the provisions of the contract sold to? Will the competent authorities in the Republic of Serbia return the mandates of SRS MPs from the SRS list - Professor Dr Vojislav Seselj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2591	I ask the National Assembly to respond to the sale of the Somboled Company on the price, when and how it was sold, whether a respected contract was requested by the Privatisation Agency and sent to the MP. As for the return of office, the MP, I am absolutely sure, knows just as well as all of us 249, that the process of replacing MPs in the National Assembly has the Law and Rules of Procedure established. In cases of termination of the term of office, the applicant shall address the RIK, the Administrative Board and after the procedure in the Republic Election Commission and the Administrative Committee, in the cases prescribed by law, the report on which the MP is concerned, which is submitted to the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall determine the termination of the term of office. The same procedure is for entrusting the mandate to another MP or MP, so I certainly said for this part of your request things that you know as well as I do. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2592	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising 225 and 226, and it's all about this agenda point that we're on. I'm looking for certain answers. I am not satisfied with the report by the ministry and the police minister for the event that took place on July 29th, so I am asking for answers from the minister and the authorities, and it is related to this report. On this occasion, I also speak to Serbian citizens that they know and hear, that is to say, some information that is relevant and relevant to the truth that happened and happened that day in Belgrade and Serbia. I am one of the participants of the SRS rally, which took place in Belgrade on 29 July 2008. And we came from Srem to this rally to support it and increase, to support Mr Radovan Karadzic with our presence, but our support was broken by the hands of the invisible and unknown people who are handling Serbia. That's the question I'm looking for an answer to. Who's running Serbia? What are invisible people, and where were they at that time and where they were in charge and making certain comments? They were shooting at us, throwing war poisons and doing amazing miracles toward the participants of the rally. That should be stopped, that should be said, and the report we received does not answer the question of all Serbian citizens: what was it that day? Who gave the order to use the force? You can't see it from the report. The report is rich in findings that largely all unknown persons participated in this ruthless event, by officials who were tasked with preventing unrest. What riots? Who are you that caused the riots? Not even this report, and I doubt the police will ever know how to find out when Mr. Secretary doesn't know the real truth. The truth is readable from all the events that occurred later, which is that the SRS is weak in the political and opposition fields. But we didn't weaken, we're now even stronger. At that moment in that space, white-world experts were stationed to cause unrest and crisis. We asked immediately after the rally to open all the cards of truth, that Serbian citizens get the truth that will protect them from the future actions of police and these unknown people at such and similar gatherings. The report mentions extreme participants who disarmed the police brigade commander.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2593	Three minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2594	Okay, I'll keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2595	The MP asked for information by calling for Articles 225 and 226. The information is that – as regards the report delivered to the Assembly, I am also sure that MP Vitomir Plužarević knows the same thing as we are 249 – can ask for a meeting of the Security Committee according to the Rules of Procedure; he can ask the Rules of Procedure for the adoption of the report; he can ask the Rules of Procedure for a session at which questions will be asked to the Government and the Police Minister. And that is all the information you need and enough, and that they write in the Rules of Procedure, so that they know how and how by procedure and by respect of the Rules of Procedure you show your dissatisfaction with the contents of the report sent to the Assembly by the Ministry of the Interior. National MP Lydia Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2596	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100. He's been quoted multiple times, so I'm not gonna waste any time. During the sessions before the break, the MPs asked for a word by the Rules of Procedure, but most were interrupted in their presentation by the National Assembly president. At the beginning of the session, the SRS MP received his word in the Rules of Procedure, asked for an explanation, and the president of the assembly interrupted him and issued a warning. There may be penalties, but no one has the right to ban opposition representatives, MPs, from seeking to get the explanations they need to perform their parliamentary functions. The People's Messenger was interrupted in half a sentence and was prevented from asking for an explanation until the end, and a warning was issued. Also, a member of 104 was injured. The dignity of the People's Messenger has been injured, for the same speaker has been interrupted for the second time and yet another reminder has been given. Of course, other colleagues are forbidden to ask for the explanations they need. Whether the actions of the president of the National Assembly at this session mean that the MPs of the opposition will be denied the necessary information in the future. Article 226. The Rules of Procedure are allowed to request explanations. As an SRS MP, I ask for an explanation: which is why illegally withdrawing the mandates of the SRS parliamentary group is not yet returning to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2597	The procedure for replacing MPs has been laid down by law and by the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, when a Member's term of office ceases in the case of a prescribed law, the applicant of the list from which the MP has been elected shall refer the information to RIK, i.e. to the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly, which shall take the decision and the applicant of the electoral list shall make a proposal to which of the other MPs from the list the mandate is entrusted. These are cases that are known to me, as well as to all of you 249, as well as to the MPs who, on this basis, have advertised Article 226 asking for an explanation. I refer you and everyone else to the Secretary of the National Assembly, for every lack of information on the procedure, and I warn the MPs not to earn, since this is matter regulated by the Rules of Procedure, Article 100, 104, 106, 103 and 101, which I will quote to make it clear what is the duties of the chairman. This is an answer to the violation of Article 226(a) of the notice given to you, which is available to you in all written regulations, as well as to any other of the 249 MPs. As for Article 100, the MP said that Article 100 and Article 104 of the speaker could be interrupted, warned only by the chairman, and the chairman estimated whether at any time any MP had hurt the Rules of Procedure, and then interrupted him, gave notice or took away a word. This is the business law and the business obligation of the chairman, as the Rules of Procedure apply equally to all. The member you called on about how and why the reminder was given - the basis for the statement of the notice is in Article 106. When is the warning given to the People's Messenger? When he approached the speaker without permission of the National Assembly President, when he spoke before he asked for and received a word, which, despite the warning of the National Assembly president, speaks about a question that is not on the agenda, if he interrupts the speaker in a statement or throws it, or, in other words, threatens the freedom of speech, I quote it because I have called on that position when I warned the MPs not to earn while someone is speaking, if it presents facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons, if they use swearing and offensive expressions, if other actions violate order at the session or acts contrary to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. One of these cases occurred, and the president of the National Assembly issued a warning. In the event of a warning, the MP shall have the right to participate in the debate, in the case of a word taken away... The People's Parliament, the Vice-President of the National Assembly, agrees that in the event of a notice, the MP pays the fine, the decision of the Administrative Committee shall be taken... The People's Messenger only has the right to reply. That's the information you've been looking for, considering that the Rules of Procedure have been injured because you don't have that information. National MP Milan Avramovic utters a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2598	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of this second term, we all received in the material the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. We all came here in writing, we know we read, we know we write and we think. Thanks to some who don't know it, the Vice President of the Assembly has now given them a moment, I think it's the left-hand side, since they're acting that way. Vice President, I ask you not to practice this in the future, because here your answers are longer than your questions, and what you said is already well known. First of all, I have called on Article 226 and I want to read it for the public: "The MP has the right to request a notice and an explanation of the President of the National Assembly... "Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic is not here, but since you moved to her place, it was your wish, I will ask you a few questions. Do you know that the SRS in the debate in principle shortened the time compared to the number of MPs? Do you know that committees in the Serbian Assembly belonging to the SRS, according to that number of MPs, are no longer in its jurisdiction the individual committees that should be? Do you know that we are the ones who applied for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly for the violation of the Rules of Procedure and these members that you have just read? Do you know that Vojislav Seselj has been in The Hague for six years? Do you know that the threat issued by the President of the National Assembly, that today's session will continue until the agenda ends, does not scare us? Do you know that there is a member, and I will quote him, 98th, which says, Article 2: The President of the National Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly to carry out the necessary consultations or obtain an opinion. When you get the opinion of those competent authorities you mentioned, then make a nice appointment, then the SRS will have its time, its committees, its proposals, its amendments, and then we will be able to participate in the normal course of this session. Until this is over, until we get back what's ours, we'll act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, look for answers that interest us, and, of course, if we don't get the answer we need, we'll move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2599	The MP asked for information under Article 226 on the work procedure in the National Assembly. The parliamentary groups are formed according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the total time for discussion in the five-hour principle is divided in proportion to the number of parliamentary groups. Several parliamentary groups have been formed since the constitution of the Assembly compared to the first registration of parliamentary groups, and every time a new parliamentary group of Assembly services is registered, they work to distribute time. I suppose MP Avramovic knows that as well as the other 249 MPs. The motion to dismiss the National Assembly President, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, was withdrawn by the decision of those who submitted the proposal, and I think it is also known to the MP Avramovic, as the other 249, as I assume he is one of the signatories of the proposal that was withdrawn. You asked all of this for a pay phone in the context of a request for information. The only thing I can give you as information is that it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure on your part. The People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2600	The Honorable Chairman, fellow Members, in my first announcement about two hours ago, I appeared on the points of Rules of Procedure 226, interpreting it and requesting a certain interpretation, which I received an answer from Madam President of the Assembly, who did not satisfy my question. She, giving that answer, injured Article 104 of attitude 1, the dignity of the congregation, saying that we use the congregation pay phone to express our political views. It's really amazing. I think we're all politicians here, maybe we didn't all want to be politicians, but we're all politicians, we came here and we have the right to express our political views. We didn't join farming cooperatives, we're not dog and kitten lovers, we're politicians. And the fact that we have certain political views here, I understand only that a certain political torture is being carried out, by limiting our work in every way, against the parliamentary group or the parliamentary club of the SRS. One of these works is that you want to make some sense of guilt or call us in any way that we can't even express our political views. Excuse me, we've asked certain questions and we're looking for certain answers. We get some answers here from the pay phone, and there are some answers we need to get from professional services. A member of the 104s has been injured and I ask that we professional services address them in such a way as to give me an interpretation of whether we are MPs here because we can or cannot express our political views.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2601	The MP said that he was in violation of Rule 104 on the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the President of the National Assembly that she did not respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Do you want the Parliament's voting day to come out? Yeah. I'm asking the service to put this injury to the vote in the voting day. Under Rule 226, you did not practically ask for any information, so I cannot, by respecting the Rules of Procedure, give you information. (Sladjan Mijaljević, from the site: I asked for information from professional services whether we have the right to deal with policy from the assembly speaker or not. ) The National MP requests an interpretation of the professional services of whether the MPs have the right to deal with politics from the National Assembly’s pay phone. I ask professional services to give the MP an answer to that question. National Assembly Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2602	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting to intervene for your inaccurate response to your colleague Milan Avramovic. Namely, I refer to Article 31 and Article 136. Rules of Procedure. Article 31 regulates the right, i.e. the position of the Vice-President of the Assembly and the situation where one of the vice-presidents replaces the President. In the requested response, you told Mr Avramovic, to his conclusion on the SRS parliamentary group's proposal for the resolution of Parliament Speaker Slavica Djukic - Dejanovic, that you assume the reasons, as counterpart Avramovic seems to know why the proposal was withdrawn from the agenda. It is simply not true and it is only true that the proposal has been withdrawn, and you, as vice-president, would have to be required for all acts that come into the Assembly and that enter into the procedure, or that are subsequently re-puted, with the proposal being approved, whether it is a parliamentary group, a government or another authorised promoter, to know why it happened. The truth works also for the public, because it is obvious that you, although you have broad explanations and long answers to the remarks of the MPs, have avoided finding out. Namely, it's only one sentence, but that's the whole truth. When we withdrew the proposal for not only technical reasons, not only procedural reasons, we made it clear that Mr. Dragan Todorovic, president of our parliamentary group, was a member of the SRS Tomislav Nikolic. That's what we said in the first part of the sentence. In the second sentence, given that he has been unauthorized and usurped by the Constitution and the law, Tomislav Nikolic and the group around him remain as some MPs in the National Assembly, we are withdrawing the proposal and making a new proposal with an authorised promoter. Mrs. Comic, I guess you understand that. If you are someone who respects the principles and statutes of your Democratic Party, I suppose, you must come from that, if you respect the party statute, that you must respect the Constitution and the law of this country. If this new circumstance has arisen that 77 members of the Central Country Authority have been excluded by the decision, it is the highest authority of our party, chaired by our President, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, that former authorised representative, we have had to come into a situation to suggest the same thing again with the signatures of the MPs who are in our parliamentary club. Of course, even during these new circumstances, they were amazed by the fact that the government is acting in such a way as to take away our mandates. You simply should have told your colleague Avramovic, not to speculate and I end up with it, I suppose it was from these because you have nothing to assume. We have informed the National Assembly that someone who was a party member is excluded by a unanimous decision of the highest authority, that he no longer, of course, did not write it, but here I will say it, he cannot represent the SRS either in the fire department.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2603	The question that MP Avramovic asked was whether you know there was a motion for resolution and the answer was - existed and withdrawn. Another proposal has been tabled that does not have the procedure of signing enough to be put on the agenda, i.e. the scheduled session, so I believe that I gave notice to the MP Avramovic with sufficient accurate information, because this is what he asked for in response to why the motion for resolution was withdrawn: because the signatories of the resolution proposal did so. National MP Nikola Savic utters a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2604	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advocating the violation of Rules of Procedure, Rule 107, in which it is said - the measure of confiscation of words is expressed to the MP who has previously been given two measures of warning, which also makes it an infringement of the Rules of Procedure of Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure. In my first announcement during today's day, the chairman, Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, then took away my word even though she had not made any remarks before. She took my word from me in 26 seconds of my address. I know the lady is a psychiatrist, but I don't think she's such a good psychiatrist that she could read my mind and estimate that I'm going to say something difficult and offensive from this pay phone. It's clear to me, People's Messengers, what this is all about, and what direction it's heading. It is to change the Rules of Procedure, to bring in a well-octrossed Rules of Procedure in order for this assembly to work more effectively. I don't mind that, because most of them are always able to bring in everything they imagine, but in that sense I have one suggestion, to help you, then let that Rulesman you intend to bring be effective to the end. I suggest that there are only two members: 1st member would vote - the chairman is always right, and 2nd member - when the chairman is wrong, Article 1. This would also bring us some benefits in such a desired and expected Europe as you strive for. They would be the only parliament on the globe where all MPs would know their rules of procedure by heart. That's what the citizens might know, on this display of our benches where we also vote for that Rules of Procedure to appear, and the first and second members, that Rules of Procedure could stand behind the clock we're looking at, could stand left or right of this coat of arms above the chairman. I have another suggestion I'd like to refer to the chairman. If you want us to get out of all this, there's an honorable way, both for you and for us. Give us back the mandates taken by the reverse party.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2605	National MP Nikola Savic must, however, be directed to the reading of the Rules of Procedure, because if his word had been taken from him, he would not have received a word to say the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It is possible that the text of the Rules of Procedure is boring, uninteresting, but it is basic to us. So if your word had been taken from you, you would not now be able to address the congregation. You could just have the right to a replica, so the whole content of your injury to the Rules of Procedure doesn't stand. You have one warning made, and I hope it stays that way, there is no reason not to cooperate on the Rules of Procedure in a regulated manner. There is also one warning from MP Momir Markovic, and I think that only one MP has taken away words with two warnings, but that is what the secretary will say in detail, as there is a record of the measures being made. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2606	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 226. Rules of Procedure. Yesterday, I asked a question here from the assembly speaker, which is a clear, loud and decident note: what happens if one of the MPs of the newly formed "Go, Serbia", because of some of the legal conditions, ceases his term before the time he was elected and from which lists will this mandate be filled? Will it be from the list of SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj, will it perhaps be from the list "For European Serbia", will it be from another list? I asked the president of the National Assembly to forward this question to the authorities. This time I address the President of the National Assembly with a question, no matter what the lady is not here right now, I ask you to immediately forward my question to her, and it says - did the President of the National Assembly forward my question to the competent state authorities? If so, who was it forwarded to and when? Madam Chairman, I think it is because of the importance of this issue and because of the inability to simply send the SRS parliamentary group to the right, an adequate way of doing its job here, that it is necessary to forward this matter urgently to the president of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2607	The President of the National Assembly provides information that enables the work of the MPs. The topic you're interested in, which is hypothetical but legally probably interesting, is for the Legislative Committee, for example. The procedure for the meeting of the Legislative Committee is in the Rules of Procedure, so that it is one of the possibilities that, in the right way, the place where the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure are set out, consider what in some cases, how the provisions of a law will be applied, whether it be an electoral law or any other law. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic, saying that he is in violation of the Rules of Procedure. I ask the MP who interferes with the work of the Music Assembly to stop doing it immediately, so that there will be no warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2608	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. Item 103, and I'm taking the opportunity for Article 226. Whenever the MPs of the SRS come out for this pay phone, they will blink yellow toss. I ask the President, or the President, to allow the MPs to present what they came out for. I quote Article 103, paragraph 3 - during the speech of MPs or other participants in the search is not allowed to throw away, or interfere with speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure that endangers freedom of speech. Every time I go out for this pay phone, I get it, and I don't throw it away, and I pray they treat me like that. As for Article 226... (President: People's MP, excuse me. Please, no throwing away, no matter how you're provoked by the speech of the MP. So let's respect ourselves if we want to be respected by others. I'm sorry, People's Parliament, and here you are. I thank you, Madam Chairman. I hope after this intervention of yours, those who earn will stop winning and at least listen to what they have to be told. Article 225(1) says - the MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the exercise of the function of the MP. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are not only in this House of People's MPs, but also in the bus, and in the market, and in the street, and in the rally and everywhere, and everywhere we have to be informed enough that we can do our job as MPs. Article 226 says - the MP has the right to request information and explanations from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues under the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the role of the MP. A few things should be clarified to the end, so that the MPs are fully informed, so that the work of the MPs can work and that this assembly can function normally. One is related to the matter of the mandate of the Members of Parliament. It's already been mentioned two or three times from this pay phone, but I'm taking the opportunity to mention again -- what happens if one of these instructors, who took the mandates of the SRS, went to the minister's place, because now the climate and the coalition that was formed for the government to form, has now cheapened the government's approach, no longer have to be given as many public enterprises, so let's say that, instead of the SPS, this informal group with kidnapped mandates enters, so that, where you, Madam Chairman, sits down, let's say, Gojko Radic and runs the National Assembly. What would happen if one of them, let's say, God forbid, died, from which the list would fill out that seat of MPs. He went to the minister's office. From which list would be filled in that place of the People's MP. One more thing, how at the bar, the parliamentary mandates come back massively, wherever the conditions came down. So, the local self-government assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2609	Three minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2610	... They're returning, if the congregations haven't returned, they've returned the county courts. What is the difference between the MP's mandate and the committee's mandate?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2611	People's MP, you used the time given by the Rules of Procedure and pointed to injuries.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2612	Thank you. I'll get back to you and apologize for going over 23 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2613	The MP said that Articles 221, 225 and 226, which relate to insufficient information that the MP owns in order to be able to participate in the work in a quality manner. Then once again, the mandates of the MPs and the process of replacing the MPs are the procedure in which the applicant of the list that has passed the census, in which the RIK, the Administrative Committee participates, and when the reasons arise that, for the reasons laid down, the MP or MPs cease the mandate, the RIK, the Administrative Board, the applicants of the electoral list shall be informed of this, and the mandate of the other MP or MPs shall be entrusted. This report is made up and is found at a session of the National Assembly. I estimate that four times this information will not be enough for MPs to say that they do not lack that information to work in quality. Then let it be clear that this provision and the use of Article 226 does not require information, which is legal and legitimate. We will give information, respecting the Rules of Procedure. During the speech of MPs and other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw away, or interfere with speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure that endangers freedom of speech. I think if we can agree, we've both contributed to Article 103 of Section 3 being applied, because the pitching has stopped. Do you agree? Thank you. National MP Dragan Stevanovic utters a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2614	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Vice President, I hereby declare the violation of the Rules of Procedure in Rule 98. I will quote the position of the 2nd and 3rd members, which is said to be -- the president of the assembly sets a break in the session's work to carry out consultations or obtain an opinion. Item 3 - Interrupt work of the Assembly in other cases, if that is the conclusion of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we were witnesses, a session of the Assembly was interrupted on two occasions past the one, let me say, the unwritten rule and the time between 14 and 15. It seems to me that the President of the Assembly at that time justified the need to consult with the presidents of the parliamentary groups. Apparently, certain consultations did not produce fruit. The session is still here today. An hour, an hour and a half ago, the assembly session was interrupted. Madam President, I haven't heard, if I did, Madam Vice President, you'll correct me, in my explanation I didn't hear that she did it because of the need to carry out certain consultations. In another case, she could have interrupted the session, but if decided by the National Assembly. I am now interested, and I expected Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic to come to continue this session, to inform us that the interruption had a certain meaning, that any consultations, if the session was interrupted, were carried out and that they had given or did not have some effect. However, as you have assumed responsibility to chair and chair the session, I expect you to have information and can tell us, me and all MPs in parliament, which is why the session was interrupted earlier. Have the consultations been carried out? Did they bear fruit? Is there a good will or a minimum will to determine the majority of the assembly, the government in Serbia according to the problem it inspired and in which it participates? Is it ready to, under democratic principles, be determined by the problem of taking the mandate of the SRS and whether it will use the mechanisms to kidnap the mandates of the SRS to return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2615	It's possible you didn't hear, when she said the break would be half an hour, and then she said there'd be a consultation at her office. I hope the representative of your parliamentary group attended the consultations. I suppose you'd have more confidence that from the representatives of your parliamentary group you'd hear the contents of those consultations. So the consultation was, therefore, a violation of the Rules of Procedure that did not exist. For whether or not an agreement has been reached, I think we are all witnesses to what the deal has been reached at the moment. What you've already said, I don't know if it applies to the same member, probably not, but it's said, all MPs are required to provide true information. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia did not present a case that would recognise any law and regulation as a kidnapping of mandates. Please make very careful statements about the pay phone. The People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic has the word, saying the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and then after that, the MP of the people, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2616	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, I want to address you first of all, and perhaps even more to the public who is watching this session of the Assembly and following our work both yesterday and today, and I believe, wondering what is going on in Parliament and why we are dealing with this problem, why we are not dealing with the issue of the trade agreement, the unilateral application of the trade agreement, the gatherings, the demand for raises by employees in the authorities of the administration, in education, various life problems, not understanding perhaps, and I need that as a national MP and their representative to say that, first of all, to defend democracy here in Parliament. If democracy is the rule of the people, then indeed no one has the right to end this rule of the people after the elections. So if we start from the fact that something happened to us that mostly doesn't happen after the election, that it splits or that it tries to break off one part of some opposition political party, then we have to tell the people what's going on and why it's happening. We were guessing, of course, that some foreign factor and foreign intelligence were involved. Yesterday we received confirmation that this is the case and that there was someone we had been creating for years and in whom we invested a lot of money and effort to make nothing of, he now formed his own political party using everything he brought as a dowry from the SRS. He's already met two ambassadors who cheer and dress in this country. It is obvious that they, not only conquered Andric's wedding and individual political parties, but also from today to the Serbian Parliament, because I see and notice that today the president of the Assembly behaves quite differently compared to yesterday. So probably the British ambassador said "restraint the parliament, too, there can't be talked and it's done as they will but as we say and through you". For one and a half term, it seems to me, we do not apply from the Rules of Procedure those provisions concerning the confiscation of words or material punishment, again on the SRS proposal. It's just, as a practice, being set up in parliament, and I think it's a good thing, and the time is coming... (President: National MPs, three minutes and please state a member of the Rules of Procedure relating to the infringement. You assume he's a member of 225, Madam Chairman. I won't be long. I just wanted to say that this isn't something that doesn't deserve the attention of the Serbian public. Let every citizen go away and put himself in a position to go on vacation, give his key to the neighbor to watch his apartment until he gets back from vacation... (President: 3.30 minutes. )......................................................................................................... And when he returns from his vacation, he finds no key, but a broken door, and he steals everything from his apartment. That's what happened to the SRS parliamentary group. What would every citizen call his neighbor? Probably a thief, an impious man, and you'd sue him. That's why we say, if we want to fight both corruption and crime (President: Four minutes). We must first fight it here in parliament. (President: National MPs, please finish your speech because the right to the length of the speech for the violation of the Rules of Procedure is three minutes. I would like every head of the Parliament club to come out here, Mrs Comic, you and I have been having a long parallel conversation these years, for eight years, to come out and say whether it agrees with such a way of working in parliament, or whether it approves the procedure of the MPs who stole their mandates. When you're ready to say it, then we no longer have any reason to step up and talk about this subject. Then we'll focus on these other topics.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2617	The MP is obliged to point out which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured, just because no chairman should assume what it is. I'm not even sure if the MP asked for any information, but by listening carefully to her presentation, I remind you that we are obliged to bring facts and truth to the speaker of the National Assembly. In the National Assembly, parliamentary groups are periodically created and changed during each term of office. The case that took place by forming the last parliamentary group, for now, in this term, is neither the first nor the last. The decisions on what happens next are not in the Assembly, but on voters. The People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, has the word, followed by Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2618	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, yesterday you heard here in the Assembly when false Emperor Scepan Mali tried to deceive you, to say that he was a man fighting...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2619	Either connect the false Emperor Scepan Malo to any member of the Rules of Procedure, or you will force me into very strict provisions of the Rules of Procedure, to which I am obliged to apply them. So, I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure, to respect the procedure, which is a very large part of democracy, and that, when we have received a word of violation of the Rules of Procedure, we say what is the provision of the Rules of Procedure, in which way it is injured and to explain it. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2620	Articles 225 and 226. When false Emperor Scepan Mali used to screw me around the Assembly to sign my MPial resignation, yesterday he told a great lie here in front of you and Serbian citizens. It's not the first time Mr. Scepan Mali tried to fool you, us and you, but well, it's on him. I'm going to sue him for a criminal trial and ask for my signed resignation, which he made me sign. Ladies and gentlemen, what's very interesting, I must say, I hear that many of you are getting, sometimes in court, power had court fools. They served to entertain the rulers, but sometimes the ruler of them can learn or see some truth in court. The quality of the court fool also measured the quality of the ruler himself. You see, here for days this court fool has been Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, who is probably a court fool, Boris Tadic...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2621	People's MP, when you started performing and speaking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you were asked to say which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured, and that is the responsibility of the chairman. Now I warn you to take care of how you address the National Assembly, what words you use, and that in the next 45 seconds, how many seconds you have left, you say what your question is, what information you lack under Articles 225 and 226. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2622	We Serbian radicals demand that the stolen mandates be returned and that...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2623	People's messenger, I give you a warning. The word has a folk MP Natasa Jovanovic, followed by MP Milan Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2624	I can't help but express my satisfaction over this wonderful speech by the master, the esteemed colleague of Srboljub Zivanovic. Thank you, Mr. Master, for explaining this to us nicely. I should like to refer to something that will certainly interest you, fellow MPs and Madam Vice President, and I am glad that in the hall most of the representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Europe delegation, especially fellow Members Milos Jevtic, who may be able to help us, since there is a member of the Monitoring Group in front of our country, that this dilemma, which I have and which is truly justified, clarifys both me and other MPs, so that next week I can be worthy, morally and honorably representing you and the state of Serbia, along with other colleagues, in the autumn session. In fact, together with the head of our delegation, Mr. Aligrudic, Jevtic, was in Paris and participated in the work of the Monitoring Group, which assessed what was happening in Serbia in all segments of our society's functioning. This point 13. The resolution, which is on the agenda next week on Thursday, at the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, actually refers directly to us and Parliament's work. Dear fellow MPs, I'll read you what this is all about. In fact, point 13 speaks about how parliament works in Serbia and what they saw. They could also see that Jevtic and Aligrudic colleagues agree or disagree, but in any case, Monitoring groups from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, following the work of the MPs and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, have reached certain conclusions. Here, that is one part of the conclusion, which says -- as regards the functioning of democratic institutions, I will read from point 13 of point 3 -- welcomes the readiness of the newly appointed president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to work with the Assembly to create a new rules of procedure that would guarantee the right of the opposition, while allowing parliament to function effectively. They also say the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will have strong support from the parliamentary support programme. Explain to us, fellow Jevtic, what kind of parliamentary support programme is this, and will you now, as a member of our delegation, say that there has been theft in the Assembly, that the largest SRS parliamentary group has been kidnapped, against the law and against the Constitution, 19 parliamentary mandates? How are you going to perform now and how can we possibly vote in Strasbourg for this resolution? Or do I have to get up there and say that something has happened that can't happen in either of these countries, not in any of the parliament members of the Council of Europe -- to appear in parliament after the election of any new political party? You, Mrs. Comic, I apologize for speaking a little longer, insisting that it is free will and that new parliamentary groups can be formed. Mrs. Comic, in order for us to be people who are MPs and who have rights and obligations in parliament, we need to know what's going on here. In the building of the National Assembly, in the Press Hall, some new party is promoted by people who are not authorized to do so. I must remind you that in 1991, the Progressive Party went to the polls. They won 0.5% of the vote. I don't know how long the Civil League went to the election once on its own, just once. But don't, please, there are dangers lurking around here. This newly established leader, who in co-operation with Tadic, Manter and Wardsworth did it all, can officially declare himself a guru -- to barricade himself here in the National Assembly building, never to come out and wait here for the day of judgment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2625	Miss Jovanovic, you've been speaking for five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2626	We don't want to be accomplices to that or be accomplices to the crime scene. That man committed four crimes. Please, we can't keep working until those faces are removed...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2627	Will you bring the end of the discussion?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2628	Here I am finishing up... and until our parliamentary mandates return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2629	He has the word Mr. Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2630	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225 and 226. Namely, President Dejanovic came, and I thought that Comic would continue to sit, because she was able to partially seduce the order in this hall. We had a real repression and chicing here this morning.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2631	I ask the messengers to be quiet, to allow the messenger to speak to us and that I may follow. You can't even hear what Mr. Ambassador is saying here.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2632	You, Mrs. Dejanovic, gave me a warning this morning between 10.00 and 11.00 today, for no reason at all, because I couldn't hear what you were saying from this bulument that was yelling, whistled, howling, what they were saying, I don't know. I wanted to explain because angry old Micun, he probably remembers us from 1991, 1992, 1993, when your coalition partners, the red one, and when Radoman Bozovic arrested us, beat us for the assembly pay phone. Unfortunately, you're doing it again today. At Mrs Kolundzija's proposal today, you also convinced Mrs Slavica Dejanovic-Djukic to treat the MPs with repression. I will read article 100 to remind you, where it is said that the MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the completion of the presentation of the previous speaker. Then attitude 3 - the president of the assembly is obliged to give an explanation afterwards. If, even after an explanation by the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will decide without delay on the issue on the day of the vote. Instead of being heard this morning, I got a warning for no reason. Furthermore, the same Article 225 of Item 1 - People’s MP has the right to be informed of all the questions needed to perform the function of the MP. I wanted to ask Mrs Dejanović-Djukic - did she accept the suggestions of representatives of the ruling coalition, particularly Mrs Nada Kolundžija, Mr Ristic, Mr Srdjan and others, who acted very repressively and negatively on the whole parliament yesterday, and especially on the president of the Assembly, to apply repression and dictatorship on opposition MPs? I'm not allowed to because you had the intention of scaring us, so maybe I don't know if you've brought some into the hallway somewhere in sweatpants and shoes that will try and get us out of this room, but I believe that we've been over it, we've learned that kind of repression, and it's not going to come your way. Under Article 226, the MP has the right to seek...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2633	Mr. MP, you spoke for two minutes and 50 seconds. I thought you guys were done. Here, finish that quote and finish your address.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2634	According to Article 226, I was going to ask for answers, starting with Serbian Parliament Speaker Mrs Dejanovic-Djukic, and until other officials from the government, ministers, to explain - what happened to this expert group of G17 plus, what happened to that Vice President Dinkic, who ruined the Serbian economy and robbed what could have been robbed, that he was not intimidated by some newly formed group and whether he might have been left on ice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2635	Thank you. I gave you my word after the previous speaker completed his address to the congregation. The explanations I have given, which are not from a domain expected from political analysts and the authorities of the judiciary, have been given, so all those explanations related to the Rules of Procedure and Assembly work have been given. As for suggestions, suggestions are desirable, but I am obliged to stick to the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure. So, suggestions don't affect my position to respect the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr. Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2636	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I believe that we are slowly returning to the time of 2003, when dictatorship was seduced in Serbia, when the famous "Sabbe" was arrested and 12,500 innocent citizens were arrested. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to the President of the National Assembly in terms of the provisions of Article 226, because I have the right to do so, and I am asking for an explanation - is it true that the "Belgrade" charter factory has been sold, the PAM paper industry, who is this buyer, at which cost and at which point I would like to be provided with a contract and an annex to the contract if it existed, to see at what price it was sold, I have knowledge that at low prices the assets of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have been sold to a foreign buyer?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2637	Mr. Jojic, you've moved away from the agenda and the reason you got your word. Please adjust the contents of the address to the reasons for which I gave you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2638	Mrs. Dejanovic, may I proceed in terms of provisions 226. Rules of Procedure or can't?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2639	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2640	Thank you very much. I quote the provisions of Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This was adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I am obliged to respect this, which I will do, but you, Madam Chairman, are also obliged to respect it, as are all other MPs. In Article 226, it is prescribed and normised: the MP has the right to request information and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, that is you, Mrs Dejanovic, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues under the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the role of the MP. Therefore, this is an imperative regulation, we cannot bypass it and we cannot selectively apply it and deny the MPs of the opposition to send you messages, to ask you a question, to ask you answers and explanations. In the interest of tens of thousands of Serbian workers, I address you to give an explanation and ask for an explanation whether it is true that the Hartius Belgrade factory has been sold to, to whom, at what cost, etc. Secondly, I ask all the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2641	I remind you, you've been talking for the fourth minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2642	I quoted, if you'd let me, a member, and you didn't count me that time...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2643	Twenty seconds took a quote, and you speak three and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2644	We Serbian radicals, we Szeljevci, are asking that our mandates be taken away, and you gentlemen from the democratic government are obliged to respect the Constitution and the law and to allow order to be put in place in parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2645	Mr. Marko Milenkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2646	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come forward on the basis of article 100. The Rules of Procedure, and I am advertising the violation of Article 27, paragraph 3, which reads - the President of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The question arises: why did Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic not allow my colleagues to, on the basis of Article 226. The Rules of Procedure, they're asking for the information and explanations they need because of their role as MPs? So, direct violation of Article 226. Rules of Procedure. Although she allowed one of the MPs to ask a question and ask for information about a problem for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but only for a while, she was inexorably discriminatory when we mention a simple sentence - give us back our mandates. Then Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic suddenly changes the way the presidency changes and reaches for the threat of warning, and MPs of the ruling majority do not warn when breaking Article 103. Rules of Procedure, paragraphs 2 and 3 - that no speaker can be warned, except for the President of the National Assembly in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure - Rule 104(1) - Members of Parliament are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and of the Member of 106, who regulates the statement of reminders to the Members of the People. I remind you that the remarks were received by the MPs of the SRS, while some MPs, even though they interrupted the speakers in the presentation and threw the speakers at them by jeopardizing their freedom of speech, not only had they not been warned but I would not have been surprised that they were not even commended in the course of the break. I think the obstruction of the work of the Assembly by the ruling majority really doesn't make sense anymore. You must show true concern for the citizens and the state. You must show your commitment to basic democratic principles. It's time to return the stolen mandates of the SRS. For the easiest thing is to steal from a man who has been incarcerated, on the justice of God, for six years, neither has he killed anyone, nor has he stolen anything from anyone. The easiest thing to do is steal a man like that. But here comes the time for the mandates to return. Our time is long and yet to come, justice will be served so that we can move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2647	On several occasions with regard to mandates, I also provided explanations and information. I think it is quite clear to both the public and the MPs how the issue of mandates is formally and essentially, but I understand the need for MPs to speak on the subject. However, I ask that we reduce that part of your participation in the discussion to a minimum, in the hope that we will begin to work on the agenda. The word is Mr. Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2648	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Rule 226, and I'd have to quote it, since what I say will apply to Article 226. Article 226: The National MP shall have the right to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the Chair of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on matters covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, and which he needs to exercise the functions of the MP. The speaker was told by the head of the newly-formed parliamentary group that he did not force his MPs from the new parliamentary group to resign, nor would he force them, but only to seek the blank resignation of my SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj, who was in the building and premises of SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj, which he stole, to return to the SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj parliamentary group, because SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj won 78 seats. Give us back those mandates because these are the mandates of the SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2649	Mr. Krstin, we want a little parliamentary atmosphere, not political. Thank you. The word is Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2650	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we are waiting for a report so that we can approach the vote on the immunity of one of the judges, I am advertising a violation of the provisions of Article 84. Rules of Procedure. Madam President, you have scheduled an emergency session of parliament for today's writing session. Then this morning, contrary to the provisions of Article 84(2), you told us that its start was delayed until the end of this current session. That is not in accordance with Article 84(2). You had to send us a written notice. People's MPs can't be anyone's hostages, because this session, if you extend it after six hours, can end at midnight. He's not gonna start the sixth session then, is he? I ask you to answer this, because by accurate interpretation of this provision, you had to send a written notice when the next session would begin. One more thing, what is the status of the MPs is seen from the amendment of the Citizens' Protector. We got the law yesterday. We should have written the amendments by today. The citizen's protector wrote the amendments and sent them on September 18th. So, MPs don't have equal treatment with the Guardian of Citizens, he's had the opportunity and time to study the law well, I'm not contesting that, it's okay, but in what a miserable and miserable relationship you put MPs in. Since it is on the agenda and a proposal to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Council, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 225 and 226, I would ask the Governor of the National Bank, from 2000 to today how many of the country's foreign reserves were at the expense of the Euroaxis Bank in Moscow, who are the largest shareholders of that bank, are these the largest tycoons here? Did these tycoons buy the National Savings Bank's shares, sell them ten times more expensive, getting a loan from the Euroaxis Bank without investing a single dime of their own money? Is that what the Minister of Emergency Mr. Shaygu has foreshadowed? Are the Russian security services formally, at the request of the citizens, questioning the business of Euroaxis bank and is that why some ministers failed and went to the other end of the world so that someone wouldn't give them this idea? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2651	Thank you. There are questions that are absolutely for the jurisdiction of the governor of the National Bank. As regards the way I have called the session on several occasions, I have already explained today that I have called you in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and within the time limits that were possible, indeed shorter than those foreseen for the regular session period. The word is Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2652	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will continue where I left off yesterday, regarding the mandates stolen from the SRS. So at the meeting of the Administrative Committee, DS MPs tried to defend the position of this progressive King Tomislav, but failed. The whole thesis of these fugitive MPs, who stole the mandates, is that citizens voted for them individually in the May 11th elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2653	Mr. Martinovic, I would ask you to speak in accordance with the reasons for which you received your word. We have a specific agenda point. You have reported to the Rules of Procedure, who has been injured and what is new to you as a question to hear and what do you expect new in response to everything that has already been discussed today at this session?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2654	In order for you to find out what I have new to say, you must first let me say, I can't speak from my stomach, maybe some of you can, I can't. I'm suggesting she's been injured on the 7th and 10th. God's command. The seventh commandment of God says, "Don't steal, but don't steal." God’s command says: “Do not desire anything that is foreign to you. We in the SRS are trusting people. The glory of the SRS is the Holy Three Jerarchs and we believe that above these human laws and Rules of Procedure there is one law of God, and above all we call upon it. So, at the meeting of the Administrative Committee, the the thesis was launched that citizens of the Republic of Serbia voted directly for candidates on individual electoral lists on 11 May, and that the mandates belonged accordingly not to political parties submitted by the electoral lists but to the candidates themselves. That's not true. Citizens voted for the election list in the elections. Our election list was called Serbian Radical Party-Dr Vojislav Seselj and counted 250 candidates. The first on the candidate list was just the president of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj, who was otherwise named after the list. The party authorities of the SRS, as well as all other parties, have made a decision...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2655	Please, allow the MP to speak, do not throw him away and do not disturb him in his speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2656	I don't mind, Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, let them get it. So, the SRS authorities, and so it was with all other voters, made a decision to assign candidates from the electoral list to the mandates. There is no direct political and legal link between citizens who vote and candidates on the list. In every democratic society...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2657	You speak for three minutes and 35 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2658	Here, just one more sentence, but I'm gonna have to take it again. So there is something between citizens who vote and candidates on the election list. The thing between is called the political party that is the bearer of the electoral list. She's made a decision that will belong to the candidates' terms of office. It was not directly decided by the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2659	Will you bring the end?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2660	I don't know why you Slavica Djukic-Dejanović are so nervous. I'm talking about the subject...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2661	I'm not nervous, you're already in the fifth minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2662	I think you're nervous, and I'm talking about what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2663	You speak for five minutes, sir, four minutes and 25 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2664	That's less than five minutes. So democracy in Serbia is on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2665	I give you a warning, Mr. Martinovic. Gentlemen, at the break I used to meet with the heads of the parliamentary groups, we agreed on a further session. You shall be presented with a proposal to put the act on the agenda following an emergency procedure during the sitting, in accordance with Article 162 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Management Board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pursuant to Article 162 paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that, in an urgent procedure, the agenda of this session be put on the agenda of the point - a proposal for a decision to grant the detention-determination of the detention of Munjiz Zeljka, the Judge of the Commercial Court in Belgrade, and that the proposal be considered immediately - in the interruption of the search for the 1st item of the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of Serbia in 2008. Mrs. Radeta asked on this deal that, before we move on to this part of the work, there are three minutes to address you. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2666	Three minutes in accordance with Article 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. For two days now, MPs of the assembly's majority have been trying to convince the public of Serbia that SRS MPs are obstructing the serious work of parliament. We will now show the citizens of Serbia how serious we are to the parliamentary group. Of course now all SRS MPs are going to insert their cards and of course we're going to vote to remove the immunity of that judge, who apparently committed, at least by what we received briefly, a crime. Every time it comes to something that is truly of interest to the citizens of Serbia, and believe Serbian citizens have the interest that judicial authorities become definitely independent, free, to start clearing up with corruption and crime. To move from this 84th place, where we are on the list of corrupt people, to let the citizens of Serbia know that one of the reasons why Europe or why Europe will not want us is precisely because our system bodies and institutions are corrupt and this is exactly how the SRS MPs show that when, or when it is really in the interest of Serbian citizens, we will always act in harmony with these interests. After this vote when we remove immunity from one judge because he has committed a crime, I urge all fellow Members of the People's Parliaments not to take part in any indirect action or to help commit a crime, and you, in accordance with the law, to return the mandates to the SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2667	I'm putting a vote on the proposal I made. For 198, it did not vote 7, a total of 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE APPROVAL OF THE LICENCE OF FREEDOM - DETERMINATION OF THE PURPOSE OF MUNJIZ GELJA, A JUDGE OF THE TRADE COURT IN BELGRAD For this item of the agenda, you have received a proposal for a decision approving the deprivement of liberty - the determination of the detention of Munjiz Željko, the Judge of the Commercial Court in Belgrade, who has submitted the Administrative Board. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if that's what they want, to file an application for a word, with a order of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative - National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, deputy chairman of the Administrative Committee, want a word? (No). Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No). Do any of the MPs want a word? (No). Since no one has expressed their desire to take part in the debate, before I conclude a single search once again, I ask if the proposing's representative wants a word? (No). I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a decision. Since we have carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, and pursuant to Article 162(3), paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule 26th September 2008 as a day for voting on the motion for a decision at 14.05 p.m. So we approach the vote immediately. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search of the motion for a decision, we move on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to grant the deprive of liberty - by determining the detention of Munjiz Zeljko, the judge of the Trade Court in Belgrade. Ninety-nine, a total of 205 MPs, did not vote for 196. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to grant the deprivement of liberty - by determining the detention of Munjiz Zeljko, the judge of the Trade Court in Belgrade. I'm setting a break until 3:30.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2668	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon session. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a decision to terminate the operation and elect members of the National Bank of Serbia You have received a proposal for a decision to terminate the role of member of the NBS Council, a proposal for a decision to elect members of the NBS Council and a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the NBS Council, which was submitted by the Finance Committee. I remind you that, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups, a relatively large number of MPs of each member of the parliamentary group. For now, only the members of the DSS parliamentary group have given names for the debate. I do not see that the MPs who applied for the debate on the first item of the agenda - the proposals for a decision on the termination of office and the election of members of the National Bank of Serbia, are in the hall. Did another parliamentary group submit a list of MPs and applications for discussion on the first item of the agenda? I ask the parliamentary groups to surrender, with a reminder that the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, and by the parliamentary groups is the time of the following: the MP group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the G17 group plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS parliamentary group - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the MP group "Forward Serbia" - 22 minutes and 48 seconds; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP - 15 minutes and 36 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; an ambassador group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to apply for a word with the order of MPs, if they have not already done so. Consent to Article 160. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a unique search into the motions for decisions. Does a representative of the Proposer, MP Branko Ljiljak, deputy chairman of the Finance Committee want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93, only the DSS parliamentary group, MPs Jovan Palalic and Miodrag Petrovic, had submitted until the opening of the search for the application. I don't see them in the O.R. right now. I hope they're monitoring the session, so they can take part in the debate on the submitted request on the list of registered MPs, and on the first item of the agenda. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2669	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to pick up where I left off. Therefore, there are political parties among citizens who vote and between candidates on the respective electoral lists who make the final decision on which candidates from the electoral list will be assigned parliamentary mandates and were also in the SRS. At the meeting of the Administrative Committee, we drew attention to the fact that the mandates are owned by the SRS, as the applicant of the electoral list of the SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj. At a session of the Administrative Committee, this self-informed party leader who has not yet been formed, which is reportedly called the Progressive Party, said the resignations were given to him personally, not to the SRS, that he does not know where those resignations are, that resignations are reportedly lost and that the mandates remain with the MPs who currently enjoy them. Blanko's resignations were given by all SRS MPs, not by Tomislav Nikolic himself. Tomislav Nikolic was at the time the party's deputy president and head of the parliamentary group, but resignations were given to the SRS. By unauthorized exporting and piously losing the resignations that were party property, Tomislav Nikolic has registered himself in a list of wrapped criminals. By God's loss, Tomislav Nikolic committed at least four crimes - the crime of stealing from Article 203. Criminal Code, criminal act of fraud in Article 208. Criminal code, felony of destruction and damage to other people's property under Article 212. The criminal code and the criminal offence of abuse of the official position referred to in Article 359. Criminal code. The SRS believes it is high time that the competent state authorities start dealing with this issue because it is classical crime. It's no longer an SRS issue, we don't have any internal problems anymore. This is now a matter for the D.A., the police and the court to prosecute these crimes. I've got some advice for gentlemen from the DS...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2670	National MP, it's three minutes. Please state in these last seconds which provision and at which point the procedure is damaged.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2671	I'll tell you when you're on the next call.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2672	People's messenger, I give you a warning. People's MPs are getting a question as to why the warning was made. For disrespecting the Rules of Procedure and insulting the dignity of the National Assembly. It is not on you, nor on any of the People's Messengers, to choose at any time to obey the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure exist to be respected at all times. The Rules of Procedure obliges you to, if you are reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, say which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured, at which point and to express the content of the infringements of the Rules of Procedure in the course of a session that is ongoing. Your answer to say in another announcement is disrespect for the dignity of the National Assembly, disrespect for all MPs of the National Assembly, all of us 249, and that is the reason for giving the first warning. The word has been sent by the People's Parliament of the Faith of Radet, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Martinovic throws out the bench, the replica is obtained after all the MPs who sought to hurt the Rules of Procedure have received the word. They said the violation of the Rules of Procedure was by the People's MP Vjerica Radeta, MP Momir Markovic and MP Petar Jojic. When all MPs, who have come forward to say that the Rules of Procedure and procedures in the course of the session, have completed theirs, then you will be entitled to the replica, with your obligation to tell me what is the basis for the replica, since giving the right to the replica is a discretionary right of the chairman who appreciates whether there is a basis for replication or not. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2673	National MP Verica Radeta warns you, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 1. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that you should give yourself a warning. Because if MP Aleksandar Martinovic had just failed to say by which member of the Rules of Procedure he answered the word, you were obliged to draw attention to it. You did it after you warned him that he was out of time and the man didn't want to spend any more time past the Rules of Procedure and he said, because he intends to continue what you don't allow to end, and he's in that context and he said he'd say that when the next call came. I ask you, article 106 says - the warning is made to the MP who approached the speaker without the permission of the National Assembly President, who speaks before he has asked and received the word, who, despite the warning of the National Assembly president, speaks about a question that is not on the agenda, if he interrupts the speaker in the statement or throws it away, or otherwise threatens the freedom of speech, if he presents the facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons, if he uses curses and offensive expressions, if other proceedings violates the order at the session or acts contrary to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. I would ask you, Mrs. Comic, when I'm done, to tell the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia whom Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic injured from these provisions? I was going to report in accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and of you personally, I would like to ask you for a notice and an explanation of what happened from the moment the morning session was interrupted due to the usual business break. The session was chaired by Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. At that time, a number of MPs were declared to speak according to the Rules of Procedure. What happened to that list of people, MPs who volunteered to speak according to the Rules of Procedure, or do you think that in that one-and-a-half-hour anti-business break, because the break is one-and-a-half, so against the Rules of Procedure, what changed in the meantime that you think we're going to continue in the other direction? I'm sorry, I overstepped here for 10 seconds, it's going to be 13, one more second, I have a message-- return the mandates of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2674	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, despite the chairman's warning, did not follow the Rules of Procedure. That's the reason for the second warning. The service informed me that it had already received its first warning during the chairmanship of the National Assembly, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. That's the reason for the warning. I believe, once again, if you haven't heard, that every violation of the Rules of Procedure, is an insult and a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. Aleksandar Martinovic chose to publicly tell the speaker that he will choose when he will act on the Rules of Procedure. We all have a duty to follow the Rules of Procedure all the time. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2675	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, member of 106 and Article 226. I think that's enough to allow me to speak now. First, as for Member 106, Ms. Verica Radeta, MP of the SRS, she read to you in which cases you can give notice as chairman. It seems that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from this morning some new befel arrived at the National Assembly, a new order has arrived to require the MPs of the SRS, and especially the MPs of the SRS to be harassed in order to get them out of touch. I got a warning, but I don't know why I got one. When I looked at Rule 106, none of these seven aliases could be related to a discussion that, when I reported to the Rules of Procedure, I said here from this pay phone. National MP Martinovic received a warning because he did not say immediately, and it does not say anywhere in the Rules of Procedure that he must immediately speak according to that member and that member, he became the manoeuvre that as soon as we report to the Rules of Procedure. It doesn't say that he has to right away, and at the end of the discussion, he can tell which member he's answering for. Article 226, because I have to be a MP, which I said this morning, to be informed, to be informed and to do the work of the MP here and on the street, and on the bus and wherever I am, because I don't leave the function of the MPs when I get out of this room, so I have to be informed of many things, and it's a little three minutes to say what I'm interested in and what you have to explain to me. First, I would like to ask immediately when the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will return the parliamentary mandates of the SRS-professor list. Dr. Vojislav Seselj? The fact that someone has lost someone else's cause, he needs to be prosecuted and held accountable. Please, Madam Chairman, to calm this front row and not to throw it at me, I'm being distracted, so I have to use it again for three minutes on the next call. When will the mandates of the SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj be returned? Since I've got seven seconds left, I'm announcing that I'll take your word for it again, and I'm asking you to sign me up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2676	The MP told the lie about the way MP Aleksandar Martinovic was warned. So MP Momir Markovic said I interrupted MP Aleksandar Martinovic, asking him to say which member of the Rules of Procedure was called for to be injured during the procedure. At exactly three minutes, when the end of the business time that a MP can use to express his injury to the Rules of Procedure, I asked him to say which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured. So MP Momir Markovic told a lie about the pay phone. It is a kind of insult to all of us, because we all sit here, and what is said is a stenogram. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has been asked to list a member of the Rules of Procedure within the third minute of his speech. Until then, he is not interrupted, because he has the right to say which member of the Rules of Procedure is called upon when his speech and thoughts respond. As far as the request for information on mandates is concerned, the mandates of the MPs are a topic for voters of the electoral list, RIK and the Administrative Board of the National Assembly. When a mandate ceases under any of the prescribed legislation, the applicant of the electoral list shall give information to the RIK and the Administrative Committee, and the decision shall be taken and the applicant of the electoral list, again under the conditions prescribed by the law, shall entrust the mandate to the other MP, on which a report shall be drawn up, which shall be determined by the National Assembly. This is information that I can, under Article 226, allow you to work as an MP and to comply with the rules governing how mandates are entrusted, in which way, in the prescribed conditions, the term of office is lost or obtained. National MP Petar Jojic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2677	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am holding that we are in the parliament of our country and that this Parliament should have equal consideration for the opposition, and also have consideration for the ruling majority. I went out and I asked for a word, and thank Mrs. Vice President Komic for allowing me to, in the sense of Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I request a notice and an explanation - is it true that the company "Jelen Do" has been sold to, when and at what cost, and is it true that the daughter and son-in-law Stipe Mesic are customers of "Jelen Dola", how many workers are left without a job, at which price is sold "Jelen Do", this mining wealth in Serbia, and to those who have expelled and killed more than a million Serbs from Croatia? According to my knowledge, and I'd like you to assure me that I'm right, because you will certainly get the exact information, is it true that our daughter and son-in-law Stipe Mesic bought the "Jelen Do", is it true that the company and the company from "Our cement", at what cost? I'd like, if possible, Madam Vice President, to request the original contracts, so that we can gain insight. On the other hand, I am obliged, because I belong to the Shechell's radicals, to distract you, to demand and to ask that you, gentlemen of the parliamentary majority, honor the Constitution and the Law on People's MPs, that the mandates of the SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj return and take away those who stole them.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2678	I ask the National Assembly to provide the necessary information on the privatisation of the Jelen Do company, the contract and all necessary regulations to the MP. I am informing the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 85, that today we will be working until the end of the agenda that is at the time when the Assembly is otherwise - at 1800 hours. So we're extending our work to the end of the work on the agenda that at that moment is the topic of our session. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2679	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Gordana Komic, as the chairman of the National Assembly, injured Article 106. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, for she gave me a warning without any legal basis. In my previous presentation, nor did I approach the speaker without the permission of the president, or the chairman, nor did I speak before I asked and received my word, nor did I speak in spite of the warning of the National Assembly president about a question that was not on the agenda, nor did I interrupt the speaker in the presentation or any other way of throwing anyone away, or threatened the freedom of someone's speech. I did not present the facts and assessments relating to the private life of others, and I also did not use curses or offensive expressions, and finally, I did not violate some of the other procedures at the session, nor did I act against the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. So, I've been told that there is no legal basis for this in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I don't get it, Mrs. Comic, which is why you're nervous when we talk about the SRS' kidnapped parliamentary mandates. No one has kidnapped DS or SPS mandates, the mandates have been kidnapped by the SRS. I guess it's our legitimate right to meet the citizens of Serbia with all the facts and circumstances relating to these four crimes that I just mentioned, because that is what the citizens of Serbia are interested in. If you'd let me finish by the end, you'd see that everything I've been saying, and my colleagues from the SRS Parliament Club, is, above all, in the interest of the DS and your coalition. Why? When you sit very quickly at a negotiating table with Tomislav Nikolic, since you are likely to make some political arrangements, my advice is to take away from the table all the expensive items, watches, jewelry, expensive escrow, etc., because if Tomislav Nikolic could steal from the party whose deputy president he was, and if he could steal from a party whose name was the head of the parliamentary group, what will he do with you?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2680	The word has a folk letter, Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic, who utters a violation of the Rules of Procedure. People's MPs are getting an answer. The replica doesn't match. If I want to take my word for it, then I leave the presidency to someone else and report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Since I do not feel that the MP has violated the Rules of Procedure by using his right to reply, then there is no need for an answer, nor do I have the right to respond to the replica of the MP. I ask the Members of Parliament to read the Rules of Procedure, as a set of rules that we have agreed to rule over them all. Excuse me. Sorry to keep you waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2681	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in some parliaments there is a special place and it says: the next speaker or next speaker, then I warn you nicely that the next time you create an arrangement where anyone will sit, you make one place so I don't have to dwarve here and stand while you hold that monologue. Reporting under Article 225 of Article 1. Rules of Procedure. First of all, I would like to thank Professor Jovanovic Radunovic, the chairman of the Management Board of the Republic Telecommunications Agency. Prof. Radunovic sent me, as vice president of the Assembly, perhaps also to you MPs CD and one informer - a review of telecommunications services and telecommunications markets for 2007. I've decided to read this carefully, because we Serbian radicals absolutely, and when we report to the Rules of Procedure and according to the bill, we're speaking with argument, precisely, precisely. This was taught by the president of our party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, who also performs in The Hague and refutes that the stone on stone should not remain from that false indictment that Djindjic wrote, with the help of Carla del Ponte. Now I ask you from the DS, your minister, your government, are you familiar with that there is a certain group of people in Belgrade, namely a certain coll-center, and that they are now popularly called - Manter's Witnesses. You know, it's a sectarian organization. I'm not really an expert on religious sects, let alone political. We have an expert here, Mr. Sladjan Myajević, who is a fantastic expert on religious sects above all, but I would recommend that he be involved in this and politically, because these Manter witnesses who, for their guru today, have an excluded member of the SRS act in such a way, contrary to the Telecommunications Act, I can responsibly claim, both to what stands here and which is shown as a legal market for telecommunications and services both in fixed and mobile phones. So they send over that particular coll-center, in a minute, via the server thousands of mobile phones to members of the SRS messages of the insufferable, offensive and, I would say, miserable content. Therefore, I ask that the competent state authorities examine where all in Belgrade have such centres, who they work for and who pays for them? If these are called Manter's witnesses, because this is the new political sect in Serbia, then they are likely paid by the US ambassador or paid by Wardsworth, the British ambassador. Boris Tadic is certainly the mediator in that. That nothing is by chance, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, that such a media-psychological propaganda war is being fought against the SRS and that indeed foreign intelligence services are involved, and above all those working in the interest of Boris Tadic, are also speaking in a special term on Pink's television, i.e. a disfellowshipped member of the SRS, and it is not by chance that the author and director of that show is someone who is employed by Srdjan Saper, who is an adviser to Boris Tadic. (President: Time. ) So this group of losers, as they are called in the people, Saper and Krstic, and then Benlesin, or as they are already called, Slavko and his phantom guests, use every opportunity and in the sadistic world with these other services, various coll-centers, and above all dishonest people, do dishonest work. Here I am, Madam President, glad you're back, because you are nevertheless a reflection of democratic and parliamentary life in Serbia. I know that you strongly disagree with this kidnapping of parliamentary mandates, because how difficult it was for you to endure when this was happening at the time of the murder of Slobodan Milosevic and when you had Ivkovic's group, I am convinced that you are doing this kind of propaganda centre of power, which nothing good can bring to Serbia, you cannot support, nor can you support the kidnapping of parliamentary mandates from the list of SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2682	Mr. Petar Jojic has advertised the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2683	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I expect that some of the values and democratic fluids in our parliament, at least when it comes to the Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Serbia, will contain provisions that give minimum rights to Members of the public that they can address citizens, and that they can seek those explanations and information, and ask questions, so that citizens know what is going on and what is important for workers, farmers, farmers, educators, health workers and others. Madam Chairman, I have come forward under the provisions of Article 226 and I would again ask for one explanation and one notice - is it true that it was sold 'BIGZ Pablishing' and is it true that it was bought by the Croatian firm New School Book; when this institution was sold; at what price; when the contract was concluded; did the contract be respected, and did there remain a large number of workers without a job and how much damage did our country suffer?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2684	I would ask you, Mr. Jojic, that the contents of what you are saying be in line with the advertising of the Rules of Procedure and that it be related to the work on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2685	Please, Article 226. I wouldn't want to read it to you again. I am using the rights of this provision of a member, and that is why I am asking you as president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2686	Does this have anything to do with today's agenda and the agenda? You want to get that in touch with us, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2687	It has to do with Articles 225 and 226.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2688	How?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2689	Can I use the rights of these Rules of Procedure or can't? First, is that allowed and is that prescribed or not? If it's forbidden...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2690	We're working on a agenda point that's very specific, and all the interests you have, and they're about your information on that point, they're not controversial, but if you're asking us to talk about all the important interests here, it's just not possible. This is how you abuse the Rules of Procedure and I ask you to keep the contents in line. As far as I'm concerned, you already have a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2691	Allow me here to quote Article 225: "The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the function of the MP." Is there something in there that's not? Under Article 226: The MP shall have the right to request information and explanations from the President of the National Assembly on certain issues necessary for the function of the MP. So please, I am convinced that you too are taking care of the workers of the Republic of Serbia, that you too are taking care of the poor and that you are taking care of the property of Serbia. I'm convinced that you too are so that foreign tycoons can't free our workers' property and our citizens' property for nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2692	Mr. Jojic, speak for four minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2693	I'm sorry I overstepped, but in the end as a hatter...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2694	Mr. Jojic, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2695	... I demand that the mandates of the SRS, the SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj, return. I'm sorry, as you can see, she's coming back to Sabela and she's coming back and she's introducing a new...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2696	I'm taking your word. There's a word Mr. Kragovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please, which member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2697	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I'm advertising an injury based on Articles 100 and 103, and in the fruit of Articles 225 and 226, I'm advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure, Articles 200. On two occasions, I addressed here and asked an oral question about the problems of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and the functioning of local self-government. Personally, you, Madam Chairman, promised me that it would be forwarded to the right address and that I would get the final answer. However, neither after the first nor after the second, I received any answer. The issue is as if the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is in a subordinate position to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it should be the opposite, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is now controlling and directing the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I don't want to ask the question anymore, because it's in vain if I've asked questions twice and I'm not being answered, and personally you promised me, you can look at the stenographic notes, it'll be forwarded, and I'll get an answer soon. It is becoming excessive for MPs to address and ask any questions they are interested in, which are very important for the territory they come from, in this particular case it was very important for me for the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. It is also very sad and very sad if we look for who he is, and when and where he kept Serbian hero Radovan Karadzic, why was he imprisoned for three days?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2698	I would ask you to use your right in accordance with the reasons for which you received your word. The issue of Kosovo is an extremely important issue, I respect your interest in arresting Radovan Karadzic, but this is not a chance to elaborate today. As for your question regarding the government's answer, your questions have been forwarded to the government and the resolution ministry, and today we will intervene once again to get an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2699	Yes, you will intervene, but for six months you have intervened for what the government had to do after my first address in this assembly of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, what I'm saying is that the sad report that beats people's MPs, citizens, and where even one of them lost his life is sad. It is also very sad and sad to work here, and this parliament has changed the composition and structure of what happened on 11 May after the election. We must all, if we want democracy, if we want rights, if we want freedom in this Serbia, and act and go, as you say, towards the European Union... (President: you've exceeded your time. Please, you gave me a lecture and let me say it for a few more seconds. We must all advocate that the result and composition of this house must be as it was after 11 May. This means that Serbian radicals must be 78 in this parliament. Otherwise, all decisions of this Parliament will be void and will not be able to have any binding fact for the citizens or for our foreign partners. So I ask you to do everything we can to restore these mandates to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2700	The word is Mrs Pop-Lazic, so Mrs Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2701	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it seems the Democrats have figured out how or at least they think they can, what our people would say, prove to the radicals, but they've crossed the line. We're not irritated by these fines of yours, or taking away words, or possibly taking them out of the O.R., because we've already been through it. So, you've seen it before, and when you watch the movie twice he's no longer interesting to you. You must find some new repressive measure. You have experts here who know that, who are also the creators of such a Rules of Procedure, who trample democracy in different ways. But I came out to tell you, Madam President, that I don't understand why you gave Mr. Jojic that measure you gave him, if you still remember what the penalty was. I don't know what Mr. Jojic did from article 106. You are not the judge here who can express such punishment as he thinks, you must in some way explain to both us and Mr. Jojic what he did that was not suitable for this speaker, whom he insulted, whom he cursed, to whom he presented some false facts. Perhaps you could give me a warning if I were to tell you that Mr. Nikolic is in a permanent relationship and a permanent visitor to the American and English embassies, the same ones who divided us into Chetniks and Partisans, who organised the 27th March, today the same one wants to destroy the opposition in Serbia, as you do not understand. Why? To achieve their geopolitical goals again. Kosovo and Metohija have already been seen, but it is preparing Vojvodina, as you can't see. At that moment, something like this was to be done and there were 18 traitors, foreign mercenaries, who tried to weaken the SRS. But believe me, here while a single Serbian radical sits, like it was with Vojislav Seselj in the 1990s, you can't start working until you put order first here in parliament and you start respecting basic democratic principles. If you think like this, go ahead and keep going, at least everything will be transparent, you like it that way, and we like you to show up in the right light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2702	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I gave a warning to Mr. Jojic because he had timed out, and I had previously warned him that he had timed out. Then, he talked about a question that wasn't on the agenda, he spoke purely political content, so he had two reasons. After my request to stick to the time provided for by the Rules of Procedure and get back on the subject, I gave that warning. We'll have everything in the stenogram. Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2703	Madam President, let me just ask Mrs. Lidija Vukicevic, a do-gooder Serbian theatre and theatre, to go out and recite Shakespeare, for example, because if we can't send political messages, let Lydia come out, and at least listen to something that even those who are now quasi-intellectuals, elitists, advances, and never go to the theater; all the great intellectual gromads. I'm reporting under Article 103. Rules of Procedure for throwing it out of the bench. So, we're ready for any kind of, as the people say, chicing. We've been through it, we know what it looks like, on our radical skin we've felt both punishments, and sanctions and everything that the restrictive policies of 2000 to today were meant to do, alone, exclusively against Serbian radicals. I would ask you for a little attention, especially you, Mr. Milivojevic, because you swear on the Holy Emperor of Lazarus and keep mentioning our troubled people in Kosovo and Metohija...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2704	Please do not disturb Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2705	You should have reacted too, Mr. Milivojevic, and I am convinced because I sat next to you that you did not hear Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, that one unfortunate person, I do not know what other term to use, a member of the DS, a national MP while speaking to the leader of the SRS, and not only the radicals but Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, Mr. Kragovic, threw something, least said, at an ugly colleague in Kragovic. I really don't know how much human misery can go. Actually, I'm not surprised. When someone was able to sell their faith overnight for dinner, these disfellowshipped, this guru, the leader of that Manter cult, then what do I expect of you? Again, I thought you DS had a little more dignity. The man, who is truly synonym for the Shessel Radicals, a fighter for the Serbian national interests, a man who, along with the other radicals, has enabled victory in all 18 municipalities in which the elections were held, is everywhere in power there, a man who is already in the sixth or seventh term an MP, who has launched an initiative in agreement with the president of our party, Dr Seselj, to establish the Assembly of the Serb Communities in Kosovo and Metohija, is experiencing that when he comes out to talk about a burning problem, what is plagued by our people in Kosovo and Metohija, that those who, as they say, should not live in the shadows are getting all kinds of nonsense. It offends me personally, Mrs Dejanovic, because I think we should all help and fight for our people in Kosovo and Metohija, so that it is not just a hollow and empty story translated into resolutions, declarations, and when a man, of such high and moral and honorable values, such as Kragovic, speaks of what is plagued by our people, experiences the chicanism of the congregation bench. The moment this whole failed coup, which Tadic and Manter and Wardsworth organized, tried to break the SRS, the first thing I wanted and asked Kragovic, because it was on my heart – Ljubo, brother, how many traitors are there for these Europeans, led by guru, in Kosovo and Metohija? You know what he told me and showed me: zero. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2706	Mr. Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2707	Before I begin, Madam Chairman, I would ask you two to stop these unarticulated screams of certain MPs and others, so that you will no longer leave the post because as soon as you leave one person with a camp attack, he says three times as much as the MPs say.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2708	Please take care of the terms you use. I ask the messengers not to interfere with the speakers. I'll give you some sanctions.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2709	Give me back these ten seconds because you spent it on me. I am reporting under Article 227, indent 3, where it is said: The Service of the National Assembly provides, in the course of its tasks, the conditions for the exercise of the function of the MP... give them expert explanations on the particular problems encountered during the work of the National Assembly. Well, I need an expert explanation for the problem of the stolen SRS mandates from the Serbian Radical Party-Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj and I expect the professional service to provide it. Secondly, I also need an expert explanation regarding this information that the Ministry of the Interior has given, because I don't see one of the items. It says here - injured citizens, 22 citizens, 4 citizens, etc.; so says citizens who have sustained severe bodily injuries, etc.; then material damage, 76 shields, 12 helmets, protective masks, visions, shields, official gun - pieces 1, hand radio stations - pieces 1, official sticks or pins - pieces 16, binders, handcuffs - pieces 8, official ID - pieces 2. Today, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, two, as they say they are called -- hooligans, to train the police uniform because they also have official ID, and a gun, and handcuffs, etc., and to appear and to legitimize everything, including the MPs. There's no way Ranko Panic was killed. Murdered male, murdered man who attended the SRS rally. I ask professional services to expand my whereabouts here as one of the accidents that hit these rally participants, as one of the accidents, the death of Ranko Panic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2710	Thank you. About the fact that you advertised the Rules of Procedure, and so on. 227, I'd like to give you an answer if you'd like to listen. I would like to say that professional associates, and those who are in the congregation service, are assigned by parliamentary groups and are obliged to provide answers to all your demands regarding specific interests, by contacting the Secretary of the Assembly, and we further to the Government or the body that is able to give you an answer to the asked question. Therefore, this is the answer to your question, otherwise, in accordance with Rule 227 of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr. Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2711	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, here I am somehow out of luck with advertising the Rules of Procedure. When I want to advertise the Rules of Procedure, about what you have broken, Mrs Comic is chaired. After that, I wanted to advertise the Rules of Procedure for being violated by Mrs. Comic, you chair. But, well, I'll talk to you, too. I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104: "The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly." You must agree with me, Madam Chairman, and all the other MPs, that the MPs form the National Assembly. As a neuropsychiatrist, you know well what a violation of dignity is. Is there greater damage to dignity than what we are suffering in the SRS when we are brutally, in the most brutal way, kidnapped by a certain number of mandates, and today they are used by certain people, who are by law and by this Rules of Procedure citizens in this assembly. Since you are a neuropsychiatrist, I would really ask you not to apply repressive measures to the MPs, to resolve the problem in a legal way, to get your mandates back. Because, unfortunately, this congregation may turn into the Sixth Pavilion, as described in an illustration by Anton Pavlovich Chekhov.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2712	Thank you. Mr Avramovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2713	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, I am reporting under Article 226, quoting only the first position: "The MP has the right to ask for information and explanations from the president of the National Assembly". I'm asking you to explain one thing to me. counterpart Jelena Budimirovic, a former co-worker of the SRS parliamentary club, now a Serbian reverse party MP, may intend to marry an English ambassador's friend and travel to England with that marriage. Then who will have her place and use her mandate and what will happen to that mandate? That's the first question. The second question, at which point of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Serbian Parliament must be made known by the MP to be members of 225 and 226, and the obligation to be bound by the agenda. The third question is Article 100, which states that the MP is obliged to specify which provision of the Rules of Procedure in his opinion is injured, to quote and explain what the injury consists of, by being able to speak for the longest of three minutes, without counting the time needed to quote. You have repeatedly interrupted speakers from this pay phone, asking first to state which member of the Rules of Procedure is involved, and then you let them speak and you didn't give them back time. For this reason, I warn you that today, when we asked this question multiple times, you did not answer Article 100, which says that the President of the National Assembly is obliged to make an explanation afterwards. Please, you have not given an explanation of what will happen to the mandates of this parliamentary club if some strange scheme of circumstances does not occur in the capacity to carry out a parliamentary duty and as long as this Rules of Procedure is not respected on your part and by giving notice to yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2714	On several occasions, you received explanations from the chairman about the issues for which you are logically interested – the mandate. On many occasions, we have established what is the way and way to resolve this issue in reality. The Assembly, and in particular today's agenda, cannot give you an answer to that question and continue to ask that same question is the abuse of Rules of Procedure, i.e. Articles 225 and 226. Mr Kragovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2715	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I appeal to Rule 205 and 206, in which I request an explanation and notification of a text issued by the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia. "The ministry of justice, with agreement with representatives of the judicial authorities of the northern part of KIM, will make a full contribution to the efforts of UNMIK chief Lambert Zaneri and his associates to start functioning in northern Kosovo by one or more UNMIK courts, in order to establish the rule of law, law enforcement and respect for human rights." We all know what UNMIK is, that it's a police organization, which has absolutely nothing to do with the court, except to carry out, arrest criminals and those who disobey the law and bring them into the judicial authorities. Here I want to say through this first paragraph that the Ministry of Justice is. Justice Minister Snezana Malovic violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, a more accurate member of 123, which determines the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which clearly and loudly states that the Government of the Republic of Serbia must implement the policy adopted at the meetings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, the text, which is on the government site -- ''to achieve the said goal, representatives of the justice ministry and the judicial authorities of the northern part of KIM, continued with UNMIK technical talks concerning the start of UNMIK's work. It is agreed to start one or more courts in northern Mitrovica by 3 October 2008, in which international judges, prosecutors and administrative staff will work for the first 60 days. They will handle emergency criminal cases, as well as cases from the jurisdiction of the law enforcement authority. ''This is the introduction of EULEX at a small door, because you can see from the very text that there are no members, not in the prosecution, not in the judiciary, but in the territory of the northern part of KIM, but only representatives of the so-called International judges and international prosecutors. Further, ''in this period, technical talks will continue on the involvement of local judges, but after 60 days of October 3rd. Representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the judicial authorities of the northern part of KIM and UNMIK will continue technical negotiations in order to reach agreement on the confirmation of local jurisdiction, the application of laws and other essential issues. ''I ask the question: by what laws will these international judges in Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvecan, Leposavic, Zubino Potok, Gracanic and Strpac be tried? Is it by the laws of the Republic of Serbia or will it be tried by other laws?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2716	The official position of the Serbian state is that the EULEX mission, like all missions, cannot, of course, be accepted since there is no decision of the Security Council. Therefore, the public is very informed about the country's official position on this issue, although you have raised many other questions that require the response of the resolute minister, Minister for Kosovo, and I stand by the promise that I will engage to get those answers. Mr. Martinovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2717	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, in your absence, Mrs Gordana Comic has severely injured the Rules of Procedure by contrary to the provisions of Article 106. Rules of Procedure, I have issued a warning even though I have not committed any violations contained in that article. With that in mind, I'm asking you for a notice. Did we return to the Ottoman Empire in 1875? Why would I ask that? That year, the Turkish Sultan wanted to do something called parliament, to appear to the Western public as a worshiper of democracy, human rights and parliamentaryism. Indeed, this Parliament was created. Whenever an MP comes out for a pay phone and says something that doesn't match the Sultan, the president of parliament tells him - tear. That's how it's been repeated 10 or 20 times. An English travel writer, who sat up at the gallery, is there otherwise a place for these SRS fugitives, asked a Turkish counterpart what that tear meant. Then the Turk told him it meant silence. So as soon as the MP says something that doesn't correspond to the ruling majority, he'll be silent immediately. And this parliamentaryism in Turkey in history is remembered as so-called The silence of parliamentaryism. Now I ask you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, do you and your colleague Gordana Comic revive the Ottoman Empire era and again in Serbia, in 2008, introduce the silence of parliamentaryism?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2718	Regardless of the interest of the story you're talking about and this content, you've moved away from the agenda point and this Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Comić, in my knowledge, had first warned you that you had exceeded the time and did not talk about the content, so she told you afterwards, practically after the application or suggestion, to the extent that she had said. Now Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2719	It was a long time ago the violation of the Rules of Procedure between 15.50 and 16.00 hours by Mrs Gordana Komic. First, Mrs Comic injured Article 85(4) when she extended parliament's work, the truth five minutes before 4:00 p.m., but I will continue to say she couldn't do it. But without what is strictly written in this position, it may be possible to extend the session if there are legitimate reasons why the president is telling the MPs. Mrs. Comic, as president, has not told the MPs what are the special reasons for doing this. Em's not working day for parliament, em's extended after 1800 hours, and we hear from the halls some story that we're going to be working tomorrow. If you think you're going to tire of Serbian radicals, you know that's never worked for anyone, so neither will you. We'll work, it's not a dispute, but you'd better break up nicely at 1800 hours, wait till tomorrow for Mr. Boris Tadic to come back, so he can tell you what he's up to with what he's up to and then finish this story in parliament. I hope there are enough reasonable ones among you to behave that way. Furthermore, Mrs Comic has injured Article 96, which says - the president of the National Assembly, when she holds the National Assembly's session, if she wants to participate in the search, leaves the presidency to one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly. Mrs. Comic at the time answered Mr. Momir Markovic's question asked in accordance with Article 225. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and, in their campeque style, the woman got carried away, talked for at least three minutes. So he should have called the Rules of Procedure and said what he had to say. Mrs. Comic could only act in accordance with Article 103 but injured Article 100, because at the moment she extended to five minutes to four, or announced an extension of parliament's work, she had raised at least five Rules of Procedure and so many MPs asked to speak according to the Rules of Procedure. He clearly says to the MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the president of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. So, when the previous speaker was finished, it was Momir Markovic, you can see in the stenogram, Mrs. Komic had to give a word to the next person who reported to talk about the injury to the Rules of Procedure. What you think you're playing, as you do this morning, is to start like you're opening a session, so you can go ahead, if you think you're playing the Rules of Procedure, and you're putting it on our minds that we're misusing the Rules of Procedure, so it won't be possible. One more thing, I was quoting, I don't know if I timed out, if I did, I apologize... (President: You've exceeded your time, please bring the end. ) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2720	Regarding your remarks regarding your finding that the injured member was 85, Ms. Komic, according to the information I have, and in accordance with the position of the 5th member, acted because she extended the work of the National Assembly and after 18.00 hours, until the conclusion of the debate in principle, to what she had the right, and the importance of the point is the fact that we adopted this agenda as a matter of urgency. As for your other objections, that is, the finding of violations of Article 96, that the President of the National Assembly when he chaired the National Assembly session, if he wants to participate in the search, leaves the presidency of one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Comic has just answered the questions asked and the length of the answer depended on the complexity of the issue, so it took her three minutes. I agree with you that it's about the time of the replica, but the simple answer demanded it. As for Article 100, Mrs Comic, in accordance with the agreement we had at the meeting of the heads of parliament, was due 1600 hours ago to inform the Assembly of the agreement of most of the heads of parliament to work until this point was completed. The Belief of Radet, from the scene: without the head of our parliamentary group. We would very much like to participate in these arrangements together. As far as we're looking for certain spaces in this Rules of Procedure to work, that's true, your finding is true. It is true that you are a number of MPs, that there are so many of you, the largest opposition group, it is true that there are so many of you that at any moment, using the violation of the Rules of Procedure, using replicas and other ways, you can impose the subject you want. But let us find a way to work on the agenda, too. Is the reason for the extension is precisely our desire to work on the agenda today and I am giving you this answer because I think the public should be informed about it. Mr. Filip Stojanović has his word. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2721	Madam Chairman, you may have forgotten that I am the deputy head of the SRS parliamentary group. Just for the sake of the public, since you're using your position as chairman to misinformed the public, apparently you're agreeing with the heads of the parliamentary groups, you haven't agreed with the head of the SRS today, you haven't called him, you haven't called me, and I've been here all day to discuss anything. So you did it on your own, in your own way. We can sit till 12:00, and by morning here, it's no problem, we'll be trading at the pay phone, but you should know that you can't succeed in that. It's just that things have to start cleaning up from here. The broom has to start working from the Parliament, from the Government, and then on. There's one anti-corruption law we're waiting for in this second session. Don't think we're not interested in discussing these bill proposals. We did. The government is proposing an agency to protect against corruption. From what I've seen, the bill says that various public figures, politicians, officials have to report their assets, that the agency continues to monitor what happens to their assets, at which rate it increases. I believe that there are opportunities to come up with data on which bills are held both in the country and abroad, and that we will find out a lot, and that many will then believe Serbian radicals who talk about this speaker that a lot of money approved directly from Solana came from these 18 people who stole Serbian citizens and the votes of Serbian citizens. What we're telling you, that's what's true. She can be nice, she can be nice, maybe people can be suspicious, but time is the best ally and time shows if it is or isn't. The scum comes to the surface, the wind blows, it goes slowly, so the river is clean again, we can swim, but somehow we have to help clean up ourselves. If that's not Boris Tadic, if you can't do it without him, let's stop the session. Tomorrow Boris Tadic will come, so go to the English and American ambassador together with him, so call Tomislav Nikolic and agree on how you'll clean up, so we can start working here normally, in the interest of all of us, and for what the citizens have sent us here.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2722	Mr. Filip Stojanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2723	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Article 226. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the case of the tragic death of Ranko Panic must by no means remain silent, unenlightened and under-exploited. The government will have to find a solution and meet the general public who is responsible for the murder of Ranko Panic, because she has run out of answers. From the moment of his tragic death, we all have a duty to endure it to the end. The report shall contain information on the means of coercion and against whom it has been used and on other facts and circumstances of importance... (President: I'm sorry, I just didn't hear what member he was. ) Article 226. ... to assess the eligibility and regularity of the use of the means of coercion. A formed working group delivers a report out of which it results in police acting in accordance with legal powers, according to the 3rd finding point. The question arises - on the basis of what rules and in what capacity does the task force provide findings in the report? She needs to give us an actual state of mind and nothing else. What exactly do the findings mean, is that the police ministry's position or a group of police inspectors who made the report? (President: Mr Filipovic, please stick to the explanations regarding the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I understand your interest, but yesterday we talked about it all the time. Here you go. ) On that request, within the meaning of Article 226. The Rules of Procedure, that in the original report prescribed by law, it should be submitted, in order to compare it with this, especially the part relating to the use of force. Then, something in the report tries to transfer responsibility to the SRS. What does it mean to conclude that the application was not filed in accordance with the law? The report says that 15 persons were identified against whom criminal charges were filed. Based on all this, the report that lies ahead exclusively to protect those responsible for the death of Ranko Panic, as well as those responsible for inflicting serious physical injuries on other participants in the rally.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2724	It's been three minutes, Mr. Philippe, Mr. Stojanovic, it's been three minutes. Thank you. The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2725	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam President, a question for you. Reporting under Article 31. The Rules of Procedure, given that, on the proposal of the SRS parliamentary group and the lists, Dr Vojislav Seselj performs my post as Vice-President of the National Assembly and on the basis of Article 1. I must tell you, as Vice-President of the Assembly, my fellow Members, I regularly receive reports about who I met with, when and where the president of the Assembly met. I don't mean of course privately, because she is a respected family wife and a respected doctor and my fellow citizen, but when it comes to her function as Parliament Speaker, the service regularly reports to me all meetings of Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic with accredited ambassadors in our country. However, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, we have here some strange phenomena that are happening in our society, which are not suitable for the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which come out of the scope of your jurisdiction in this particular case. I'd ask you to be personally interested as president of the assembly, because here is one, I said, an informal group of Manter's witnesses or what someone will call that political sect. That push, whether in the National Assembly building or elsewhere, meets with the American and British ambassadors. If that were true, today he also confirmed the "Politics" daily on his front page. That's what I'm asking for security reasons now. Here's what fellow MPs are about. When we were many years earlier and it was the first time from this pay phone in 1991, Professor Dreselj, calling one MP to whom he had given the popular name, and he was then a colleague of Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic, gave him the name, or nickname of Cimmerman's waiter, you all know, since this is the legendary figure from the congregation anals, which is at the time, Professor Seselj then pointed out from the pay phone that the contact of that MP SP with the then ambassador in our country was actually the beginning of the plans of America and the western forces to break our country, to start the aggression on our people in Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska. Now I ask you, with great seriousness, to make an analogy of that time and today. Everyone was saying then, it's Shessel's conspiracy theory, but the radicals are saying something that isn't true, and unfortunately in 92, we won an unremembered economic sanctions, the persecution of our people from Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska began. Our people, in the right sense, have experienced genocide. Those who were protagonists and politicians at the time, who were gathered around such political groups, were funded until 2000, and what Marshall eventually confessed in his book, which was also publicly mentioned by Madlen Albright, former secretary of state. (President: Time. ) Therefore, the matter is very serious, Mrs Dejanovic. How quickly, unfortunately, the wheel of history is turning, it will show you, and I just ask that they don't mind me and that they don't think it's like some propagandaist I'm doing a trendy, fellton on a weekly NIN that came out today. See what it says here, so the secret scenario from Zagreb's Kaptol, or the 1975 plan of the Catholic Church... (President: You have exceeded Miss Jovanovic's time. ....................................................................................................... for breaking SFRY. I'm sorry, but I really got into a very serious topic. As far as all of this is true what we're saying, how dangerous such people are... (President: Please bring the end. )......................................................................................................... who today, scurrying non-institutionally with the American and British ambassador, are working to harm national and state interests, will show time. And that is what we point to and that is why we want to take away every opportunity to act through parliament and return the mandates of the SRS, because we have never been traitors, always true Serbian patriots, and we have fought for national interests and for all citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2726	Entering a building of non - members of the Assembly and not MPs is regulated, too, by the Regulation. Security is required to monitor all contacts. Otherwise, MPs have the right to communicate with ambassadors and other persons in order to exercise their functions. The word is Mr. Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2727	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice-President Jovanovic, who has been in violation of the 100th Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly throughout the day, because its explanations to all MPs are absolutely similar to the monologues of Ms. Comic and there is no one who can be satisfied with it. Erem, I've answered the word by the members of 225. 226. The Rules of Procedure, as I believe it is necessary to get clarifications for normal functioning of the work of the MP, whether the Serbian parliament has made a step in relation to the 2003 or 2004, which, among other things, marked the famous vote by Neda Arneric of Bodrum. It's September 2008, and we've reached that point to be a member of 23. The rules of procedure in an even rougher and more ignorant manner violates, when a group of citizens decided to withdraw 19 of the SRS mandate. It is also a matter of fact that one of the first signatories and so on. MP groups, then Forward, Serbia, and now the SNS, but not as the Socialist People's Party Branislav Ivkovic, but rather something else, although the question is whether it will remain until the party's official formation, therefore, was just the signature of Jorganka Tabakovic, who was at that time thousands of miles away, in Azerbaijan. This is just to know how much this is in accordance with the laws and the Constitution and that everything was spontaneous and not premeditated. So spontaneously in all local environments and there were no more than 10 to 15 times phone calls per day and presses to leave the SRS and to approach this, as nicely qualified by Miss Jovanovic, Manter's witnesses. The public must know, the Constitution and the laws must be respected, just as MPs must return to whoever won them, and that is SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj's election list.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2728	The word has Mr. Ljubomir Kragovic, again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2729	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I appeal to Rule 101. I'm asking you to grant me the right to replicate your exposure. If you'll allow me to continue, Madam Chairman, I would like, above all, to commend your position that there is no negotiations and talks with the EULEX mission, because it did not pass at the UN Security Council. All those who think, as Serbian radicals think, I call and count that there are few, many more than you think and what you throw away, it's a shame to talk like that. This is not one mandate or two mandates, this is not a matter of tax whether it's 11 or 12%, this is about the state, about Serbia, about the Serbian people, about the Serb sanctities, about Gracanica, about the Pećko Patriarchy, because if it wasn't for Kosovo, it's a shame that you're talking. I just wanted to commend President Slavica Djukic - Dejanovic for having such a position that he has no negotiations, he sent a clear message from the Assembly that there is no negotiations, no talks with the representatives of Mission Eulex. But what I wanted to point out is that we may not be able to influence Boris Tadic's statements, because he is an independent institution and he says we must be flexible when it comes to Mission Eulex. However, the National Assembly also has the right to influence precisely these statements made by Justice Minister Snezana Malovic, and it also has the right to make statements made by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, who says that UNMIK's reconfiguration with the Eulex mission has started in Kosovo and that we must recognise that this is a real situation. We can't admit it, we can't accept it. If he did not accept the UN Security Council, why accept the state of Serbia what is at the expense of Serbian citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija? This is another reason to allow an emergency resolution on Kosovo and Metohija to be allowed to be led by the Prime Minister and Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and normally for the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic, not to wander in these statements whether or not to accept the Eulex mission. I therefore appeal to you, the chairman, to advocate that the motion for a resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, which is more urgent in the Serbian Parliament and that the electoral will of 11 May also be satisfied, that the mandates of the SRS should be returned and that the number of radicals must be 78.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2730	So it's not about the bill, and the resolution on Kosovo is in the process and it's about intensively. On Monday, the minister resumes consultations with the heads of parliament. The word is Mr. Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2731	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, honourable citizens, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 101, 103, 104. Although I could have come out in replicas of what Miss Jovanovic said, but I think the injury of these members is something that is much more important. The injury of these members comes from a group full of mouths fighting for the citizens, the same group that we heard a few days ago, funded by the tycoon, if nothing else, at least in this last campaign that we all had a chance to see. We can all understand one abandoned mistress syndrome that's being demonstrated behind this pay phone. Also, we can understand a divide in the SRS and the anger that is poured out behind this pay phone, but we cannot figure out why this must be suffered by citizens of Serbia who are watching this, as do these other MPs who have a desire to work in favour of the improvement of all citizens. When we look at the way the SRS has communicated to political inexperiences, when we look at all the bad things they've done in the past few years, when we look at the legalization of the robbery of citizens, which in this council is more visible than ever, because every day of the assembly session costs between five and six million dinars, and look at how these days pass, it's enough to repeat the words of one smart man -- that stupidity is the most unusual of all diseases, but it's not the patient who suffers from it, unfortunately, everyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2732	The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2733	Just so this doesn't get lost. My friend, I understand your dissatisfaction with having to sit here, but you understand how it is for both of us. We must bear with it that people who falsely represent themselves as MPs, who have been elected on the list of SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj, sit in the assembly benches. What do you say, Mrs. Milena, we settle in the SRS? We've got it. We unanimously ruled them out at the session of the highest party body. Now you have to work it out here. You're asking me to handle what's a job for the Attorney General, for the Constitutional Court, for the Administrative Board. Mrs. Kolundjia, we can play like this now, if you want, deaf phones in the next few days I don't know how many days. I think you're a serious woman. You, unlike some others, do not meet secretly or publicly. What are you going to do as president of a parliamentary group to meet with the American and British ambassadors? None of the heads of parliament ever thought of that. You know that's what your party president is doing, that's what the president of the state is doing. That's what your commitment is and it goes into the regular protocol of these state affairs. Don't drag us into something that's as pure as tears. Didn't we have the greatest consensus possible, people, when we brought the new Constitution of Serbia? Remember that dramatic session that preceded the official declaration of the Mitrovica Constitution, as we called it. A respected fellow from the SPO, so many factory robberies, so much robbery of Serbian citizens, total bankruptcy of individuals, because people have no more bread to eat, we have millions of unemployed, no money for workers, for unemployed, for children, for pensioners, for farmers. That's what's tragic. You know what's worst of all - to end the electoral will of these citizens. It's the biggest possible theft. Speaking of theft, you know a very good law that warns every president of the election board, in one of eight and a few thousand polling stations in Serbia: if he fakes the record in the polling post, if he allows stealing in a polling post, if the election material does not bring into the municipal election commission, he is threatened with a prison sentence from one to three years. It's the law. Honorable people, individuals, whether they are Serbian radicals or from some other political parties running for their national representatives, going to elections, going to the most remote places in Serbia, and in the winter, and in the rain, and I don't know under what conditions, sitting in them 30-40, the electoral board has so many in the extended composition, in some of the managers there, but they are neatly brought and signed, in torn shoes and who knows in what conditions, sometimes on foot, I know that all Serbian radicals in the forest, from the farthest village, and from Slavica Dobreca, and from the Greek villages, bring their records and honorary work. We now have a situation where people who sit in the congregation, who falsely represent themselves, steal the electoral will that these people have kept in polling stations. Where do you want a bigger thief than that? Just make the SRS mandates come back, Mrs. Kolundzija, the whole problem will be solved, not in relation to us opposition to the government of Boris Tadic and you in the coalition, but to overcome what is truly a disgrace to the Serbian parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2734	Mrs. Kolundjia, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2735	I'm reporting for an officer. 100, 101 and 103. I wish what the SRS is really doing had something to do with us and had anything to do with the role of Parliament and what I need and we can do. There's no dispute that this has nothing to do with it, because if you really had the key theme of the mandate, then you'd be initiating the procedure. It is known what the procedure is to determine who the mandates belong to and what the institutions will then decide on. That's not the pay phone. You don't solve a problem here, you discuss your relationships here, and that's none of your business, or the citizens who voted for you, or the least citizens who didn't vote for you. So what you want here is for the problem you have to cut someone past the law and the Constitution, who has absolutely no authority for it. If you have a problem being solved in court, you know what the procedure is. Run the procedure and solve this problem nicely. If you have a problem being solved in front of the Administrative Board, please provide us with papers for the Administrative Board, so that the Administrative Board can say, yes, there are papers that make it clear that mandates belong to that as well. So you know what you're doing is just an excuse. It is simply that the citizens of Serbia now see clearly, and it is only very strange to me that you do not see that you are doing this only to the citizens of Serbia, but also to yourself. But I won't save you from it. So what you and who you created, what someone turned into, that's your problem. We've told you this before. But the problem with Serbian citizens is that you solve this problem with yourself. It's none of your business. Once again, please, you have no right to usurp an entire institution here because you think you're the only heir to the marriage fluid. You also resolve this with yourself in institutions that are competent to do so. Once again, I ask you - this is not the place where you are allowed to abuse and destroy an entire institution because you have a problem. You solve this problem with yourself. You have no right to burden all of Serbia, to hold it hostage because of your problem. Once again, please, if we're in charge and you can provide us with evidence that we in our jurisdiction need to resolve something... (President: Time. Here, I'm done. Then give us a nice delivery, and we'll discuss it. You have no right to do this.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2736	If he wants, can Mr. Maric give Mrs. Radeta a seat? You got it. He's got Mrs. Radet's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2737	I am very sorry that the MPs of the SRS have angered Mrs. Nada Kolundji this way, so here is the third time she's been out for a pay phone. Mrs. Kolundjia, what we're talking about here, and how it has to do with you. Of course, I don't mean you personally. We know exactly who we're sending messages to. Do not worry about how Serbian citizens will react to what we say from here, you worry that Serbian citizens will react to the fact that the coup in the SRS has failed, under the conductor stick of Boris Tadic and these, US and English ambassadors. I told you nicely - stop this, wait for Boris to come tomorrow, he cooks, let him see how he solves it. We are well aware that we are acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic has tried several SRS MPs to say they are not talking about the topic, because Article 225 and 226 are not a topic and it is not a agenda. Please, Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, let me not answer again, that you are not doing this anymore. Because, whether you go on the agenda or not, at any time, the MP may speak according to the Rules of Procedure, of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, or seek certain notices based on Articles 225 and 226. We know very well, Mrs. Kolundzija, that you are unable to answer this question, we know that, but we know who can give the answer - Boris Tadic. Boris Tadic is the one and we don't have any problems, you heard it many times today, we don't have any problems in the SRS. Being our problems, we forced it out of the party. We operate in accordance with our statutes, in accordance with our programme, headed by our President, Dr Vojislav Seselj, and that will not change, so be sure. What we tried to do failed, but therefore we insist and will insist that Boris Tadic, who participated in the theft of the SRS mandate, return the mandate. You know it's so possible, you know it, you call it and say why we don't press charges. Mr. Martinovic called the DA at least five times, it's a job for him. But he can't. First of all, we don't have a public prosecutor, we have some kind of employee. Of course, he can't do anything until Daddy Boris, the great dictator, gets back who has to tell him what he can and can't do. (President: Time. So don’t try to turn in any direction, don’t get upset, that’s what damages beauty. Look how nice, calm we're talking and we'll talk as long as you have the patience to sit in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2738	You're out of time, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2739	Thank you. I'm sorry about the weather.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2740	Mr. Zivkov Dragan. I'm sorry, Mr. Skrbić has given himself a seat for you. The word is Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2741	Mrs. Kolundjia, you're wrong. You're the lady who's head of the Parliament Club, you're free to move, you use, like all of us, public transportation, you come to work because you're a normal citizen of this country. If it had happened to you, Mrs. Nado Kolundji, if someone had stolen from you on the bus or in front of the Assembly, God forbid, the purse, you would have yelled - a thief, a thief, catch a thief. As every day in the Assembly passes by the pickpocket Nikolic and you say it doesn't matter now and we don't care, you deal with it there. This should be done by the competent state authorities and by you to advocate that the SRS should receive the post of chairman of the Administrative Board, which belongs to us. Of course, why not? Wait, I didn't reveal any big secrets now, we filed a request. So here in this assembly, Mrs. Kolundjia, are you an MP from 2000 and you know then, you remember that we didn't participate from 2000 to 2003 in the work of the assembly committees. Perhaps you, as a member of Covic's party, opposed it, but then a group of 176 DOS MPs, here, let's say, without your vote, if you were a true Democrats, decided not to give us the proportion we had. We had 23 MPs at the time -- neither did we get the post of president, you remember very well, nor did you have the post of vice president of the Committee. Why? Because at the meeting of MPs, or post-festum chief Branislav Ivkovic, the one who later entered the same adventure as some here, lied when he said it was not the agreement of the heads, or party representatives, attended by Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic. You know what, Mrs. Kolundjia, I really don't know, you have a lot of amateurs here, some imaginary personalities and quasi-intellectual gromads, but if you ask me, I don't have to brag at all, I don't know what, but if I know something, that's what's been going on in the Assembly since 1990 until today -- who's been cheating, who's been lying, who's trying to kidnap, not just here, but also in the Federal Assembly and everywhere. We were always just defending the same thing. This is not the first time, Mrs. Kolundjia, that we defend the principle and the right of the political parties to defend their mandates. Who should we talk to outside these institutions? Here, said Master Martinovic that the prosecutor should do his job - he's gone. Where else are we to appeal than to you? It can happen hypothetically to you, too, to anyone. Don't gloat about it. You remember very well that on the first day, the president of the Assembly said that she did not enjoy it, that kind of thing, because she knew and felt it on her skin, as someone who was the founder of the SPS, as well as these people here and all the socialists throughout Serbia, what it looks like when someone enters the process of such betrayal. Therefore, it is not just a matter of competent authorities, but of the congregation above all. We demand that we get the post of chairman of the Administrative Board, because it belonged and should belong to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2742	The word is Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2743	Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, I would like to take the opportunity to put me on the list of members of the Rules of Procedure immediately, as I will open a topic that I will certainly not be able to complete in three minutes. I just want to tell Mrs. Kolundji that the basic principle of democracy is respect for the will of the citizens expressed in the elections. Since you are Democrats, i.e. self-called Democrats, you should at least know the basic principle of democracy. If you didn't know, I'd just like to tell you and remind you that the will of citizens of people and citizens is expressed in elections. The Serbian Radical Party had its list called the Serbian Radical Party -- Dr Vojislav Seselj and won 78 seats in the election. Since Serbian radicals will certainly not deviate from their idea of restoring their mandates while this assembly is in office, so I would just remind you that you respect the basic principle of democracy. I've reported in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure, I would like to ask a few questions, and since, with my discussion, it will certainly be possible to ask the question of the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for Local Self-Government. What I'm trying to say is that my municipality from which the Becay municipality is a tycoonized municipality, as well as local authorities. That's what you should know, Democrats, since a similar coalition in the Vienna municipality and this side, which is on the left-hand side, is about that power ratio in the local parliament in Vienna. The tycoon that PIK Becej bought is Mr. Nicovic, who introduced eight of his committees to parliament, i.e. from a combination of PIK Vienna. This hasn't happened since yesterday and now since the local elections, it's been happening since 2006, when PIK Becej's privatisation was prepared. Let me remind you why PICK Becay is interesting. For reasons because 11,000 ha there are state countries within the municipality, the Katastrian municipality of Vienna. Let me remind you, now in the latest media reports, PIK Becay has lost 1,000 ha which has been sued for two years with people who bought and numbered 1,000 countries at the auction. PIK Becjej, led by Mr. Nicovic, had to bring back those 1,000 ha to the people, to those who auctioned the country on a regular basis. I still have to remind you that the country in the municipality of Srbobran and Vienna is the most quality country in Serbia. Such a country on regular bids is moving...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2744	You're out of time, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2745	I just want to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2746	Finish your sentence, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2747	In municipalities of that quality, such a country moves from 35,000 to 40,000 dinars per hectare, and Mr. Nicovic has out-of-courtly aligned himself with the municipality of Vienna thanks to the president of the municipality because he came from the combinations, was the president of the municipality, now the president of the tycoon's extended hands, has settled out-of-court for the country's 8,000 quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2748	The word is Mr. Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2749	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I'm advocating a breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 103. I did not answer here for a word in order to speak of the interest of any political party, but I answered to speak about the interests of Serbian citizens. We, speaking on behalf of the SPO, were deprived of nine mandates in 2004. We did not fight in this way for these mandates and this shows our principle and this shows the difference between those forces that well think Serbia and those forces that Serbia wants to freeze. There are institutions, there are committees, there are ways you can fight to get your mandates back if they really are yours. I remember you convincing us that the whole of Serbia should vote for Tomislav Nikolic. Did you cheat on Serbian citizens when you said that? You have to answer that. Anyone working against the interests of Serbian citizens should not have the right to seek back some of his mandates, but should be ashamed of his even getting mandates. You lost your term on 11 May in the previous election. If someone is to blame for it, it's the people, but the people can't be guilty because until just ten years ago you had much, much more support and you ruled Serbia. Happiness is Serbian that your strength is not strong and is not as strong as it was ten years ago and that now you can only obstruct Serbia for a few days, and sometimes it could last for a decade. There's something else I'd like to tell you. You must understand that citizens of Serbia do not have time to wait, to lose, that such political parties as your past, that you must act responsibly and perhaps in some of the next elections...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2750	Please, the reason you took the word for it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I remind you of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2751	Perhaps in some subsequent elections you will exercise your rights and have some satisfying number of mandates. Thank you. I hope you will come to your senses and follow the example of those forces that led Serbia when they were in a similar situation as you and when they did not brake and obstruct Serbia. You are looking for mandates to be more obstructive to better stop Serbia. Believe me, it's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2752	The word is Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2753	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will have to point out to the president of the DS Parliamentary Group and the president of the Assembly that he is rudely violating constitutional provisions relating to the right to work, the provisions of the Law on the Budgetary System, the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, because he is making it impossible for MPs to work in the National Assembly. In what way? The president of the Assembly interrupted the work of the Assembly and sent MPs to, she said on one occasion on vacation, another time...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2754	Mr. Buha, that was a subject that was repeatedly elaborated and I would ask you to explain the reason why you were now looking for damage to the Rules of Procedure to take part.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2755	Let me just, I'm in the dark. You sent us on vacation. There are hundreds of laws here in parliament that must come to debate in this House. We haven't worked in 45 days. In the ninth month we worked for six days, this is the seventh. You've paid all the wages and all the fees that belong to the MPs, and you've made it impossible for us to work. We have the right to a constitutional suit to sue you, and first of all, the citizens have the right to ask you and that they are suing you, because these are the funds of the citizens of Serbia. That is why I say you are violating the provisions of the Law on the Budgetary System and the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Let me tell you, here we are today discussing, on the agenda we have a proposal for a decision on the selection of Deputy Protectors of Citizens. The material came from citizens' protectors in the Assembly on 19 October 2007. We've been discussing it today, almost 11 months. You're talking about expeditionivity, speed, demand, insist. Eleven months of civil protection, as a state body, can't function normally because you didn't let him... Here it stands - a proposal for a decision on the election of deputy civil defenders. Answer me why you didn't put this item on the agenda at 11, 12 months, first, second, etc.? As far as these funds are concerned, let me just say that the Law on the Budgetary System and the Budget Law on Unsustainable Exploitation of Assets are intended for both violations and commercial offences and criminal offences. You committed both of them and three of them. On the other hand, you have violated the provisions of the Constitution. You've made it impossible for the MPs to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2756	Thank you. On your question, why didn't I put it on the agenda last year, that's because I wasn't in this place. There's another reason I haven't put that on the agenda in three months. In a period where there is no regular session only by emergency procedure, at least 84 MPs, you could have arranged that, if you suggested, I would have put it on the agenda or the government could have proposed such a procedure. So, the promoter could have been you, it couldn't have been me. The word is Mr. Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2757	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 101. Since the SPS has been mentioned on several occasions or on several occasions, and also because of the public of Serbia, it is very important for me that citizens and yesterday and today understand and see what is in fact the background of the non-opening of this session in a way prescribed by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I think the citizens of Serbia, the voters of the SRS, but also us from the parliamentary majority, deserve a much higher level of responsibility than all of us here. I think it's very important that by doing what you are doing in the SRS, you can be sure that citizens will instead be valued and be committed accordingly. If you care about the state so much, and I know that you always say that the state is your first priority, if you want the state to move forward, if you want to make a constructive contribution as an argumentable and strong opposition, then you need to stop obstructing the work of this parliament, because Serbian citizens expect something more from us. They expect us to move forward. They expect us to move to the future. They expect you to make a full contribution, and by criticizing us, to fix our policy that we have placed here, and not to be here, as some women across the board, behind the tarab, who and how many mandates, what proportions and what quotas they belong to, etc. Yesterday, I said we can't discuss the elections to determine who has more mandates than two opposing currents within this group called the SRS, because hypothetically speaking, Mr Nikolic, for example, which I would not like then, and not now, to win the presidential elections, would you perhaps ask him to return the presidency of the Republic. These are all hypothetical issues that bother us, not us here, it is our job to sit here and, if necessary, to endure what you are doing, but it is simply bothering the citizens of Serbia. I think you're aware of that, too, and I think it really takes us to get to a higher level of understanding, at least the political situation that Serbia is in today, and not to talk about what will happen to the mandates in a place that is not owned by it at all. So, if it's necessary to determine if someone stole your blank resignations, let them be determined, there are investigative organs. If it's determined, we'll welcome it. As far as the Administrative Committee is concerned...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2758	Time. Bring the end, Mr. Rose.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2759	I'll bring it to an end. I'm sorry, President, but since I answer once a day, I'll try to say what I wanted in 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2760	I tolerate a minute to the heads of the parliamentary groups. Within this minute, you'll be finished.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2761	I'd like you to take away these 15 seconds you took from me. So, if we were on the subject yesterday, and if we all know that the quotas belonging to the opposition are determined by the opposition in both personal and party terms. So it was up to you to agree on who would be chairman of a certain committee. We cannot, as a parliamentary majority, interfere with this because we have made all these decisions by consensus on all committees and you know it very well. Then why do you expect us to solve your problem? It's just not possible. If we're going to talk about quotas again, I just found out, now if we have to change quotas because I guess another Serbian radical has moved to another party, and now we have to make a new quota again tomorrow, I don't know what the citizens will think of you. Please let us all get together in our minds and work on a agenda that has been clearly defined and that all the heads of Parliament have agreed on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2762	The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2763	It is truly fascinating that the representatives of these giant parties in half six, when the most watched the transfer of the Assembly, come out to present their opinions, forget to say that they are already subject to Boris Tadic, which, of course, is not our problem, but I would take advantage of, given that there has been a lot of talk here and that something was not quite a distraction on the subject, that what has been announced today in "Politica", that citizen Tomislav Nikolic, but in the role of head of some phantom group, met with American and English ambassadors, speaks only in favour of...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2764	Mrs. Radeta, I'd like to ask you to be on the subject. Please, are you advertising the Rules of Procedure or is that a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2765	It's not a replica, Rules of Procedure, Art. 225 and 226. I'll tell you in the end who's being asked the question. So, it only speaks for what Vojislav Seselj said and said, and about the influence of the English and American embassies and the interference of the finger in this failed coup in the SRS, it is now revealed. It has been confirmed that it is true, if it is said today publicly, then the logical conclusion is that it is true and that it has happened in secret before. We need to inform the citizens of Serbia about this. We understand you from the DS why you defend Tomislav Nikolic, but I really don't understand the SPS representatives, either, I don't know what they're called anymore, and what mandates they're talking about, if they hadn't entered the DS list together, they wouldn't have seen parliament in passing. So you from the DS, or Boris Tadic, created Tomislav Nikolic in this current version. It is clear to us, we understand that you are defending him for this reason, but this lady who sued me at the time, Mrs Daniela Lovrin-Gavrilovic, if I remember correctly, sued me for, as she said, hurting her honor and dignity. I got an answer from that prosecutor's office to drop her lawsuit, with an explanation that she can't hurt the honor and dignity of someone who doesn't have it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2766	Mrs. Radeta, it's been three minutes, I'm warning you about the weather. Please draw the end and pay attention to how you address yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2767	Just give me one more minute. Just before Mr. Buha spoke and when Natasa Jovanovic said he was the Prime Minister of Republika Srpska in exile, then the lady, and I'm surprised you didn't hear that, Lovrin said - Ha, ha, ha, now that we've passed a law on foreigners, he'll be a stranger in this country. Bruca and shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2768	The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2769	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I really feel a terrible inconvenience that I should share this country's political destiny with people who have no argument for anything but to insult and to try to disqualify people. I've reported to members 103 and 101, and I'm telling you again, those who do this speak for themselves, not for those who are referred to them. So I understand who you are, because here you demonstrate to us who you are and who you are. That's not my problem anymore. What is the problem of all of us, and above all Serbian citizens, is the need to block the whole work of parliament because of this narrow engagement of a political group, which believes it belongs to them because they want it to belong to them, and therefore blocks everything that stands before this parliament, perhaps you look forward to the fact that Serbian citizens will not come to the White Schengen list. You may be looking forward to the issue of times in the European Union is a huge job that involves a tremendous amount of work, among other things, and this Parliament. Perhaps you look forward to contributing to preventing us from being on the road faster. It's all part of your political agenda, and I don't see any other political program. But what you can't do is stop the citizens from getting the representatives they chose to finish the job. And what you also have no right to do, you do not have the right to insult individuals and institutions in which you represent Serbian citizens, because that is how you insult Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2770	The word is Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2771	Dear citizens, honourable MPs, the Honorable Presidency, in front of the SRS, I would like to advertise members 225 and 226, where it is said that the MP has the right to request information and explanations from the president of the National Assembly. Madam President, since 1996 I've seen a lot of presidents of the assembly and I can tell you that your method is the worst. I'm surprised that you, as one doctor, didn't take the advice of your predecessor, Mr. Dulic, because he just told you how you can do with the strongest opposition party to reach a consensus, to make Parliament work in the interests of the citizens. You just want to do the opposite because you and this disinformation of the public want to hide the fact that you want to block Parliament, because all we need to do in the next period to bring in this Parliament, and this is about the moment when we are to become a candidate for membership in the European Union, these are the laws that the majority of which go to harm these citizens, because we as a state are not prepared for those laws that you want to pass in the next period. For what reason are you preventing and blocking parliament for months and since the elections, we haven't had the work of Parliament as it should be? You want to hide from the citizens the fact that the moment we become a candidate and get candidate status would reveal how much you have deceived and deceived the citizens. You promised, the Democratic Party, all these years to load money on borders and the moment we become candidates, it will come to Serbia, that citizens should wait at home for the postman to arrive and bring that money. Also, you want to hide that those actions you've shared with citizens and where citizens have already committed those 1,000 euros, that there is none of these actions, that simply when they get it and what remains of the robbery of Dinkic, it won't be enough to get 100 euros. You mention here and the laws on conflict of interest, the law on the protection of corruption, it's clear that you want to prevent laws being passed, because if those laws were passed, half the government would be in jail. We see that the government's cash register is in deficit, you're destroying local self-government. We want, as the strongest parliamentary party, this parliament to work in the interests of citizens, but you will have to answer some of the questions that we are asking first. It is certain that the will of citizens must be respected and that the electoral will of 11 May must be in this Parliament and these mandates to return.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2772	Mr. MP, you have accused me of blocking Parliament, so I would like to inform the public and you that, in sincere belief that we can bridge the problem that is obvious to MPs and the public here, I have held at least a dozen meetings with the heads of Parliament. The president of your parliamentary group has highlighted certain requirements, and in the talks between us and the political talks that have gathered and the people we can call the leaders of Serbia's political life, the largest number of those demands that were possible we have respected. To change the presidents of the elected committees, to do something that is in the hands of other authorities, and not this Parliament, I am simply unable to advocate. And everything that has been in my power to overcome this blockade, and the blockade has been caused by your dissatisfaction that Mr Nikolic is chaired by the Administrative Committee. So my powers are limited, I did everything, I couldn't do it. There is a possibility that members can change their attitude on this committee. You're asking the parliamentary majority to solve the conflict problem of the Radical Party. You said you didn't have that problem anymore, that you ruled out a number of recent MPs, but that's your problem. Serbian citizens should have human resources today, and tomorrow we should move to the legislative activity they sent us here for, and your accusation sent to me to block the work, simply because of the transparency and not only of the MPs who see what we are doing, and of the citizens who see what we are doing, but also of the media, is simply decommissioned. The word is Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2773	Dear Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, but above all respected citizens of Serbia, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, members of 103 and 104. Yesterday I demonstrated how long it took to present the first item of the agenda that we should discuss here today and expect that I could appeal to the conscience of the SRS MPs. Today, however, we are once again burdening ourselves with a divorce. I also advertise and injure the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, where it is said that MPs must treat one another with respect. I don't need to defend Mrs. Daniel Lovrin. It was best done by the citizens of Whispers on 11 May and showed how Daniela Lovrin is. She won her electoral unit convincingly, and the Democratic Party holds power in the town of Šapcu. I have to tell you from the SRS, especially Mrs. Verice Radeta, Serbia will not be managed by one with a more pagan tongue, a stronger sniper, better muscles, but one who knows how to oppose the language of arguments and facts and one who can hang up when someone is speaking to him from the speaker of this assembly. But there's something else I need to tell you. You can burden Serbian citizens with your own party problems and you can complain about stealing, but if you are the victims of theft, go ahead, file blank resignations, inform the Administrative Board. In the election camp, I remember well how you explained that there are no blank resignations in you, but the hand is laid on the Bible, goes to church, and I don't know which voodoo rituals are applied to keep the mandates, and now we are witnessing here the fact that you cannot preserve your mandates and that we have to suffer because of your internal disputes. I'm sorry that the citizens of Serbia suffer from this kind of behavior. I am sorry that the citizens of Serbia are watching a quarrel today that is becoming an insult to other MPs. I am sorry, as the man who promised the citizens of Serbia that we would grant this parliament, which you are persistently trying to disable us in an effective work for the benefit of Serbian citizens. And you, sir who throws, gather your result in your electoral unit, there were more invalid ballots in Kruševec than you have won in your constituency. But once again, I ask you to return to the topic of the agenda, once again I ask you to respect the dignity of the Assembly and not to burden the citizens of Serbia with your internal problems. Set up an Administrative Board and defend your mandates there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2774	Mr. Dragan Stevanovic, and let Mr. Dusan Bajatovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2775	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I called in to advertise the Rules of Procedure half an hour ago, but I'm only now in line with the circumstances. Of course, there is Mrs. Comic, and I wanted to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure in Article 106, which regulates and defines the expression of warnings to the MPs and I will commit myself specifically to giving notice to my colleague, Aleksandr Martinovic. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, the chairman of Mr. Martinovic, at the moment when you were not in this room, said the warning completely unjustly and irresponsiblely. You said you were informed and you had information about how it happened. Mr. Martinovic was not behind the pay phone at the time of his warning. There were two or three steps from the pay phone and all of its burden, which gave him a warning, was the fact that he said he was going to report for the replica again, to come out for the pay phone. I don't dispute those discretionary rights that were mentioned earlier and the right to judge who you will and how to make your remarks, but this is my third or fourth date for the pay phone, and I have insisted on all the speeches and here, in my fourth address, I will try again to appeal to you that you can apply everything the Rules of Procedure gives you for the right. There were a few comments here during the day that we'll be out of the Assembly, and that's not a problem, and that's not something we're not prepared for, and what the SRS isn't used to or hasn't experienced in those dirty and ugly '90s, as your coalition partners have feared in the campaign, and for God's sakes even in these 2,000 years since DOS came to power. I'm telling you one more time, you're trying to solve the problem the way you're not going to solve it. Since today, I was also suggested that I said something that should make sure that I kept an eye on it, that is, in future conversations, I mentioned a kidnapping. I would like to get from you the information that is said in the Serbian dictionary or vocabulary that is being replaced, so I will use it in the future when I go out for this pay phone and, of course, what it's called when someone is sitting in this parliament, and in the elections he wasn't in the election of his mandate and he didn't deserve his seats.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2776	It's been three minutes, thank you. As far as the reporting order is concerned, the moment you step down to one of your colleagues, which is your right, you come to that colleague's place, that was the reason. The way it was explained to me why Mr. Martinovic was told the reminder I already explained. Mr. Bajatovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2777	Your Honor, Madam President, I am reporting for Article 103(2), where he says MPs should treat each other with respect and attitude 3 that says this applies to swearing, insulting, etc. I think that Article 103 in attitude 2 is insufficient because it does not address the insult of intelligence, which is happening here to other MPs and to the citizens of Serbia at all. So I want to explain what's on the agenda here. And on the agenda, it's not the agenda. It's on the agenda here, if Mrs. President will allow me, 10 commands. (President: I would ask you not to throw the speaker away. ) I will really do my best, because I don't understand some things, I have the right to ask the gentlemen of the SRS, and I ask you, Madam President, to answer me - is the 10 command act of the Serbian Parliament? Perhaps our legal acts describe Article 7 of those 10 commandments, which says, do not steal and Article 10 does not want anyone else. Now I'm asking, by arbitration between law and justice, however, now radicals are being called to law, and I'd like to call for justice and explain another thesis that was present here. They say -- the ones who weren't in the election are sitting. Was that Tomislav Nikolic in the election? When you love justice so much, you don't defend that fact now. (President: Mr. Bajatovic, stick to the topic. I stick to the subject as well, I apologize, so I interpret it, perhaps I am in error, as I think the gentlemen of the SRS are under the power of error. Boris Tadic didn't do this. We of the SPS, who you call and call so much here, know what a prison leader means. We know that sometimes they can look for and what can't be done in reality. The way you want to show loyalty to your chief in The Hague at this time is deeply harmful to the reputation of this parliament. No one took anything from you, 20 of your students, of which Tomislav Nikolic was the bearer of the list, it passed, he was in all the local elections of the list bearer, and now he didn't deserve anything. But I'm not a lawyer for Tomislav Nikolic, I just want to tell you -- we had Banet Ivkovic, too. I know what you're trying to do, and I just want to help you. Don't insult our intelligence. This is your problem. As we other MPs, your colleagues, interpret statements coming from your ranks or from yesterday, that your intention was never really to come to power, or at least not after October 5th. Isn't that the biggest voter scam in Serbia? You had 83 MPs, two million votes, and you had no intention of coming to power. Then how do you think you're going to help those voters you're so fond of calling out to? (President: Time. ) Therefore, I don't know how smart it is on my part, I'm ashamed, contrary to what the Verse of Radeta says, it says -- you come to me when it's most visible, I'm ashamed that this is what Serbia is looking at. This is the collapse of every authority of this House. If this Parliament has no authority, how do you think we have the right control function in relation to executive and judicial authority? Come on, let's finish this session today, there's a new session on Monday, you'll be working on the Rules of Procedure. You now want the blackmailing majority to come to a solution to these problems for which there are procedures. Well, gentlemen and comrades of the radicals, however you like, if you like the procedures so much, then hold on to them, give them to the Administrative Committee, as Mrs. Kolundjia said, your proposals and give us a chance to see if you think we need to solve this, how do we solve this problem? Don't let us solve it for three days with your blackmails, and then you tell us - that's your problem. I'm afraid this is the problem and the citizens who voted for you, the problem of the Assembly's work and the problem of what Serbia simply...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2778	Mr. Bayatovic, you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2779	Thank you, Madam Chairman, I won't answer again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2780	The word is Mr. Nikola Savivić, and let Daniela Lovrin-Gavrilovic prepare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2781	Ladies and gentlemen, just one press release. I allow everyone to have their own position on every matter, including my predecessor. This pay phone serves all of us so that everyone can make their own judgment about every occurrence in this society. I don't think I can convince a gentleman otherwise, nor can he convince me that his attitude is right. But for the public, our list was called SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj and the first on the list was Dr Vojislav Seselj. This is no expression of loyalty and loyalty, and I don't know what to Mr. Seselj, although it can be interpreted and you won't be wrong even if you interpret it that way. This is a struggle for some democratic principles. If you are not able to see beyond your nose and if you are not able to deal with politics, and you are not only dealing with daily politics, but to see what this is like as a problem here in parliament, not ours, but ours, and general politicians, internally, then you are no match for the situation you are in. So, this didn't happen on its own, this isn't a single party's problem, this is the problem of a political mile in our country and the problem of the influence of those who never wanted us well or did anything to our political scene. That is why we are asking that we sit down and agree on everything that is as a problem of the functioning of this House as we did at the beginning of this term. You do not show will, so you support this state in parliament. Here, that's your choice. It's got to come out and it's got to be seen who's applauding who here. When, please, in political pluralism, if someone declared themselves an opposition, most applauded that opposition when he entered parliament. It is so obvious that he is in your position or you are in his function or you are both in the function of those who need to make politics here in the Balkans and our country to say it in itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2782	Thank you. Mrs. Daniela Lovrin-Gavrilovic. Here you go, and get Dusan Maric ready. You will instead of Dushan.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2783	I suggest a breach of Article 104(2). Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I can tell you that you remember my name well, and it's good to remember it. The Belgrade municipal court is facing criminal proceedings against Ms. Verica Radeta for the defamation committed. There's a criminal trial going on. So, ma'am, you're not released. I felt that if someone in my opinion committed a crime, it was my responsibility and I owe it to the citizens of Serbia to press charges against him. So, I'll do it in the future and when I think that one of the MPs committed a crime, when I have the knowledge that any citizen committed a crime, because I think that we as politicians have to fight these things to make it better for the citizens of Serbia. I expect you, too, if you think so, and you've been saying it here for two days now, that you have thieves in your ranks, that you have immoral people in your ranks, that you file criminal charges, and that you prove that a crime of theft has been committed, that the MPs of the SRS have done so. So it's responsible behavior, it's responsible politicians. You owe it to the citizens of Serbia and to those who voted for you, and to those who did not vote for you. One little suggestion, the next time you go to the election, when you run the campaign, tell the citizens of Serbia: we ran for the thief, among us are people who steal, so you won't have a problem with the mandates in your ranks because you won't have any mandates.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2784	Thank you. Mrs. Verica Radeta, or Mr. Dusan Maric, gave the post to Mrs. Radeti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2785	I'm reporting from article 101. Of course, not because of a colleague who spoke before me, because if the MP submits a complaint against the MP for something he says from this place, then what does he really have about such a people's messenger to say? Only information, not in our ranks. You should follow and listen to what we say. I want to replicate, in fact, Mr Milivojevic, as well as Mr. Bayatovic. Mr. Bajatovic says - we know what the president means in The Hague, so he can probably send some messages that can't be fulfilled or something in that sense; unlike Mr. Bajatovic, who is not here now, who had no contact with his president, there you are, well, we Serbian radicals, have a neat contact with our president, Mr. Vojislav Seselj. He doesn't give us any assignments we can't travel. We are agreeing with him as predicted by the Statute of the SRS. Of course, Mr. Vojislav Seselj is the party's president and there's nothing controversial about it. Mr. Milivojevic, I told you recently, every time you, in the way you said it today, spoke about the SRS and Dr. Vojislav Seselj, I will remind you when it started, that is, since the intention of breaking up the SRS: since the time when mafia Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic wrote the Hague indictment against Dr. Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2786	Please take care of the terms you use.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2787	Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, this is my court of honor on Zoran Djindjic, and as MP, I can present him.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2788	The term itself cannot be used here, it is offensive as the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2789	So, from that time on, and continued Boris Tadic and Boris Tadic is now the one who, along with US and English ambassadors, tried to do what Djindjic was actually up to when he said - take Seselj to The Hague and do not return him. Now that is what Tadic has tried through also some who have sided with him to tell Brammerc that Seselj is not returning from The Hague at all. That's why he talked to him here. You know we know everything. Unfortunately, you won't succeed in that intention. Vojislav Seselj will return. And the fact that the mob prime minister wrote the indictment is for nothing. It's also free of what Boris the dictator is trying to steal and what he's trying to take... (President: Mrs. Radete speaks for more than three minutes. )......................................................................................................... one number of MPs. You won't succeed in your intention. (President: Speak for more than three minutes. ) The SRS, led by Vojislav Seselj, will remain the only defender of the patriotic, the only defender of Serbia, no matter what you think of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2790	Mr. Milan Škrbić, and let Sladjan Mijaljević be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2791	Your Honor, Madam President, finally, after an hour and a half of fighting to get to this pay phone, I got my word. I will address both Serbian citizens and every time I go out for this speaker, I will address the citizens of Serbia, and, of course, they will, in the next elections, assess how they will assess, whether they will give us votes or not. That's their concern, and you don't take care of us. The fact is that after a few days of this discussion, it is concluded that there is nothing easier than being an opposition to this new DOS, made up of executioners and executioners, from adversaries and spines. What's with the buttocks? This DOS in this form has been in power for eight years and has destroyed Serbia. The policy you are conducting is indeed an inexhaustible resource of infinite replicas, questions, grudges, nebuloses and paradoxes. In this present-day Serbia, above all disturbed moral values, corruption and everyday sub-mutation policy, in a country where the rules of Osna and Udba still apply, there is indeed not much choice for a common man, and he is the most important in this story, but because of his own interests, an ordinary man withdraws and speaks silently, in fear of some imposing dictatorship. That's why we're using this 225th and 226, we're in the SRS, and that's why we're talking about these broad topics today, and apparently someone's in fear of finding out the truth. Back in the days of Emperor Dushan, that means somewhere 700 years ago, Serbia knew what law and order was. In that famous code of Dusan, there was an attitude that literally reads as follows: "The law is stronger than the sovereign will of the rulers." It's not like that after 700 years. During Emperor Dusan, it could, but during Boris Tadic, it cannot. You know that jargon of our youth, "Where are you king, where are you king?" The self-proclaimed emperor or king is stronger than both law and law. That's the facts. Those political manipulations, as one said David Copperfield or Boris Tadic, instead of pulling a rabbit out of his hat, are criminals and frauds gathered around him. I'll let you give me a warning. A newly formed coalition, blinded by some strange glue that has not been produced so far, apparently says that Serbia has been moving forward since the last elections... (President: National MP, please announce in the third minute what information you are looking for under Articles 225 and 226) On the basis of Articles 225 and 226, I ask for information - when will the mandates of the SRS come back?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2792	The procedure when the term of office of any of the MPs ceases by law is as follows: the applicant shall address the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly and the RIK and explain the reasons for the termination of the term of office entrusted to one of the MPs or MPs from the electoral list to which he is a signator. The entrustment of the mandate to the new MP shall be carried out in accordance with the same procedure. RIK will be informed, the Management Board has a meeting and a report and then the report will be submitted to the National Assembly, where we find that the applicant of the electoral list has acted according to the law and that we have changes in the composition of the National Assembly MPs. I have no doubt you have that information. That information has been given several times so that your address under Articles 225 and 226 can mean two things: or you do not participate in the work of the National Assembly, so you have not heard the information, as far as possible; or you abuse the Rules of Procedure, which I do not believe, from where you would do it. Messenger of the people Sladjan Mijaljević, and after that, Messenger of the people Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2793	The President-in-Office, the esteemed colleagues, Article 104(1). I'm asking the chairman to protect the dignity of this assembly, because an hour ago, I came forward because my colleagues from, it seems to me, some party called SPO, have spoken truly amazing words here and shown a very serious degree of intolerance and hate speech. I'm really fragrant about what I heard. Then, Mrs. Nada Kolundzija distorts the picture and says that we do not want Serbia's citizens well. We want what was stolen from us back, precisely because of those Serbian citizens who voted for us. Mr. Bajatovic also made a certain lie saying that we did not want to be in power. We wanted to, Mr. Bayatovic. You personally were in the coalition with us and in two pre-election campaigns, you deceived the public into wanting to be in a coalition with us and with the peoples. At the last minute, however, you crossed over to those who pay more. In the end, there are some people who are drunk with etheric evaporation from Goc and Tara. They called us a cult. In the end, I heard that some call them Manter's witnesses. So there's something I'm going to have to interpret as one of the leading experts in the Balkans on sectary victimology. It has two definitions. The first definition is when one group separates from a larger group and forms a new body without clear ideology or clear dogmats, just calling for some of them to come out of, it's called the sect. So much for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2794	Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day on Article 104, paragraph 1, you have stated? National MP Sladjan Mijaljević insists that he has asked the chairman to take protection of SPS MPs and SPS who have issued their courts on the work of SRS MPs. This chairman takes the whole day to protect SRS MPs, because you have not registered with your electronic cards under Article 222, you get the word, even though you are not present in the electronic system. Most of you, who knows the Rules of Procedure as well as I do, know that none of your performances for the speaker should be in the stenogram, since you are not in the O.R. So, I'm taking protection of a little more of the MPs of the SRS because they've been breaking Article 222 all day in the work of the National Assembly. The People's Messenger Sreto Peric has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Nikola Savic. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radeta, throws her out of the bench. You are an excellent acquaintance of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so please remember that it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2795	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Vice President, please do not take me for protection. I'm acting in accordance with Article 223. Rules of Procedure. I am reporting in accordance with Article 100 and in relation to Article 23.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2796	Since the MP insists that I do not tolerate the refusal of the MP to register in the electronic system, then I ask you to insert your card. So, MP Sreto Peric... The People's Parliament is pushing me to learn the name of the People's Messenger. Here, I've learned the name of the MP. National MP Sreto Peric is registered in an electronic voting system and thus is placed in the same position as other MPs in the National Assembly, members of the ruling majority. People's MP, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2797	Mrs. Komic, I demand no protection from you, but that you do not dispute with me when you give me the word in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and nothing more than you. I was going to say yes, it was half an hour ago, given that it made her rather nervous and made Mrs. President a little more tolerant and taught her about Article 225. Rules of Procedure. I'll have to, I'll probably pass on, do it now, before I start talking about article 27. The MP shall have the right to be informed of any questions necessary for the exercise of the function of the MP, paragraph 1. Article 2 - in order to provide more complete information to the peoples regularly, the official publications of the National Assembly, the information and documentation material on issues on the agenda of the National Assembly and on other issues from the National Assembly's work. These two attitudes have nothing to do with each other and I'm reporting in accordance with Article 225. I'm going to have to take my chance on Article 23 first. The Rules of Procedure - MP groups are educated in the National Assembly as a rule no later than seven days after the election day of the National Assembly president. We have some phenomena that can't be swept under this member of the Rules of Procedure at all. I had a question for the president of the assembly -- on the basis of which a member exercises his right to grant to MPs, or heads of parliament groups, a time of discussion longer than any MP. None of the members of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia make a difference. Who deceives the public and citizens of Serbia? The public and citizens of Serbia deceive the DS, headed by Boris Tadic. How and in what way? Here, the president of the Legislative Committee began yesterday, considering the laws on the Legislative Committee, saying, "Now the conditions for a white Schengen visa have been obtained." There's only one question I have to ask -- a lot of citizens from Valjev, they can't go to Divcibars, they don't need any visas, they don't have any funds, from Bajina Basta to Mitrovica, from Užica to Zlatibor. Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, The SRS stands for something else, we advocate a better life for the citizens, and that is our obligation. We stand for the preservation of our country, but first of all we need to talk about truth and justice. We used to, taking part in the debate by law, talk about it and say what's wrong, try to fix those laws, and now you've imposed - to fight for the truth. I have been contacted directly by hundreds of citizens and asked, so as a MP, I am obliged to give them an answer, so I call on Article 225 - whether the elections in Serbia are lifted, we have an end to the will of citizens outside the elections. This is best seen in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please give me the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2798	Three minutes and 30 seconds you spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2799	I haven't exceeded my time, but I'm going to finish my discussion now.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2800	You've exceeded your time since it's allowed time to injure the Rules of Procedure for three minutes. I gave you back the time after your request not to take you into protective custody and let you violate Article 222, so you don't register in the electronic system and then you had an additional three minutes and 30 seconds and at that moment you're done.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2801	That's not true. When I went out for the assembly pay phone, I was registered, which you could see before I showed up here.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2802	The question that MP Sreto Peric asked -- whether the elections in Serbia were lifted -- were not. The word has a folk MP Nikola Savic, followed by Dusan Maric. Is Nikola Savic in the O.R.? He has the word Dusan Maric, and after him, MP Srdjan Milivojević, saying the injury of the Rules of Procedure. DUSANMARIĆ: Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, so that I can prepare for a discussion on the next item of the agenda in due time, and this is a debate on the proposal to resolve the perpetrators of judicial functions, I demand that the Ministry of Justice give me an explanation on the basis of Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the following issue: which of the state authorities and individuals has damaged the state budget over the past two years by millions of euros? What's this about? We were accused here yesterday by DS representatives of undermining Serbia's budget with our discussions by preventing a decision to suspend the judges' office for 70 judges. It has been said that it is 70 judges, that their salary is 100,000 dinars and that practically over the past two years they have failed to perform their judicial duty. First of all, we from the SRS didn't choose that judge. Secondly, we couldn't even solve them, as you know, we haven't been in power in the last two years. Third, let's accept that this decision was not voted yesterday, but will be voted today. On a daily basis, these judges with salaries and contributions cost a state budget of 4,500 dinars. If we multiply it by 70 judges, it's 350,000 dinars. I'm asking the Department of Justice, I don't think it takes a lot of time to answer this question -- what about that 730 days? If what DS representatives have said is true, then why did the ruling coalition in Serbia, why did the ruling parties not put this issue on the agenda earlier? Thank you. I ask the National Assembly's service to deliver a stenogram of the discussion of MP Dusan Maric to the Ministry of Justice and to deliver the reply to the MP and to the National Assembly. Recital of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Milivojevic, and after that, the pronunciation of the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2804	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I report for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 103 and 104. Mrs. Radeta, I didn't mention in my presentation of Vojislav Seselj. I understand you have a problem talking to him on your cell phone and listening to me, but I can't really let anyone insult Mr. Zoran Djindjic in this room, unfortunately late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. There are in the history of the whole world and human civilizations always small people ready to vasad to push great people to the altar and altar. There's a vass of people who are unprepared to sacrifice, but a vass ready to sacrifice others. And these little people who crawl through the dust, however small they may be, never hesitate to grab the biggest stone from that dust and throw it at those who have borrowed the generations. But no one notices little people today. The Democratic Party can be proud of Zoran Djindjic, Ruzica Djindjic can be proud of her husband, Luka and Jovanovic can be proud of their father. We Democrats can be proud of the first democratic prime minister, because this man has never said anything ugly about anyone, especially anyone who has passed away and who has laid down his life for this country. When we talk about Zoran Djindjic, we must say that in this assembly, this man whose work is immortal is very often insulted. We forget very often, but not the Democrats, but those who sit on my right, that this man has partly paved this European path that we are going to today, that he is responsible for these European laws and that his name and his work as a lighthouse stands on that European path. When we step on that European path, when we adopt a set of European laws tomorrow and tomorrow, which will contribute to the abolition of Schengen visas, know that he is as a star and a lighthouse waiting for us again at the end of that European road. Most of us will see us out of this room today, and some will never see that way. You know, there's a lot of stars in Serbia, and when you come out and you spit on those stars, spit on you and talk more about you who spit on the stars than about the stars. When you stand under a hundred-year-old oak tree, when you stand under an oak log in Serbia, does anyone see the tiny weeds growing at the foot of that oak, however lush that weed is? No, everyone sees that oak, and that oak protects it with its shade, and that weed, it protects it from the stormy winds. If you fail to see the work of Zoran Djindjic and do not understand his work, that is your problem, but we will remain proud of Zoran Djindjic, his work and what he did for Serbia. For this reason, because of him, for our sake and for Serbia, we will vote all European laws and arrange this country as a regulated country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2805	National MP, Assembly Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic, is now applying for discussion, according to an agreement with counterpart Aleksandar Martinovic from the same group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2806	I won't be long, just to cheer up my colleague Milivojevic. Mr. Milivojevic, the president of our party, Professor Vojislav Seselj, told me that he thanked you for those two letters of support you sent him. He is really thrilled that there are Serbian patriots among you and that you thanked him in these letters in a nice way for defending the interests of Serbia and the Serb people. As you thanked him, so he will continue until his return and be sure that by entering this door here, and you know how he does it with dignity, he will first approach you and give you his hand in support of everything you've done for him and those wonderful letters you've sent him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2807	The People's Parliament has said a violation of the Rules of Procedure? A national MP gave a fellow MP Srdjan Milivojevic a notice, says he has rights under the Rules of Procedure. The notices may be given by the chairman. It's not good. This is another case where more rights are enjoyed by the MPs of the SRS than by everyone else in this room, and I ask that we also accept the provisions of the Rules of Procedure as applicable to the MPs of the SRS, that this will also apply to the MPs of the ruling majority. National MP Aleksandar Jugovic utters a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2808	Dear Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, breach of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 103 and 104. The Serbian Renewal Movement was mentioned earlier, and I would like to address those people who mention the Serbian Renewal Movement, they show some fear, which is perfectly normal, they are asking for someone to protect them from the SPO. To be honest, it's justified for the simple reason that when the SPO was strong, stupidity went on its toes, hiding behind corners, the SRS almost didn't exist. Your political motto has been checked, the worse Serbia is, the better you are and you are not giving up on it. You simply believe that if you freeze Serbia, if you change the thesis, if you say that Zvezdan Jovanovic is the former or current Gavrilo Principe, you will not take Serbia anywhere, nor deserve to be here in parliament. You are afraid of Europe because the people in Europe do not pass lezilebovics, fog dealers, muddied hunters, those who stand there in the congregation register, and who raise their daily journals almost every day, and why, for their own trouble. They worry about the interests of Serbian citizens by raising diaries, which are financed from Serbian citizens' pockets, to obstruct these citizens, so they will never come to the Schengen list or be part of the European family, part of the European Union. You suffer from unrequited love, it's perfectly normal, it's hard to love you. If someone took away your privilege of hating you and taking away that privilege from you to tell the truth, believe me, you'd be left with no feeling, and you'd be silent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2809	Pronunciation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the word has been given by MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2810	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since Mrs Gordana Komic today mentioned on several occasions the Republic Election Commission as the competent body to whom we should address for the protection of our mandates, in accordance with Article 226 I am asking for a notice of interest from it, probably not only the MPs, but also all citizens. Is the RIK report, received by all the MPs when we confirmed the mandates of 250 MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the new assembly, is that somewhere, if I am not mistaken, in June? If the report is valid, then the question arises on what grounds is 19 citizens sitting in the National Assembly of Serbia, without legal basis and without political legitimacy? If someone has put off the report on the basis of which our mandates have been verified, then I would ask Mrs Gordana Comic to inform me in an adequate manner. As for the statements coming from these tobacco democratic orders, that the SRS is preventing Serbia from entering the European Union, here, to give them a notice, it may not be in line with the Rules of Procedure, but I don't think it's bad for them to hear. It does not prevent Serbia from entering the European Union, you are prevented by the Netherlands and Luxembourg. They didn't want to block the application of the Transition Trade Agreement. They don't want you because they know that behind the stories about Europe, democracy, Euro-Atlantic integration, etc. They hide common strangers, criminals, former communists, ex-marriages, etc. Therefore, do not honor us here that we are preventing you from entering the European Union. Come in, as far as we're concerned, as soon as possible. You have a Dutch embassy, you have an embassy of Luxembourg, ask their embassies which are the reasons that you, even though you delivered the entire military, political and police summit, not only Serbia but also all Serbian states to The Hague, and despite the fact that you meet all possible and impossible Western powers orders every day, are not yet in the European Union. Did you say 2001 -- just to deliver Slobodan Milosevic, no, co-operation with The Hague tribunal is over? Tell me, who is it that keeps you from joining the European Union from the DS and from the Socialist Party of Serbia? As far as I know, he doesn't sit in Dutch or the ambassador of Luxembourg here. Ask them what bothers them about you when they won't let you into their company. What do we have to do with that?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2811	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic asked whether a valid report submitted by the RIK was valid, when we accepted the mandates as MPs to whom the voter entrusted the mandates in the new assembly. Of course, it is also changed by the signator of the electoral list to the Administrative Committee and the RIK, with a request to make changes because they have acquired, by law and by law, conditions that some of the MPs from the list that the signator wishes to change are no longer MPs. The RIK, the Administrative Board, is then meeting with a decision on the end of the term of office, the voters of the electoral list again address the Administrative Committee and the RIK, with a proposal from other MPs they wish to entrust their mandate. The Management Board shall draw up a report and deliver it to the National Assembly. I am sure that MP Aleksandar Martinovic knows this, and what I am responding to is because it is my obligation under the Rules of Procedure to give an explanation to the MP who asked whether the list that was submitted was valid. Okay, as is the case with any subsequent changes that have had almost all the parliamentary groups in exchange for individual MPs for various reasons. One of the saddest was that we had MPs that we lost during that and this term, and that's a procedure that has nothing to do with a session of the National Assembly. Can't use the Rules of Procedure to help you solve that problem. In providing the information you thought you needed to share with the National Assembly, you made a misinformation, probably out of the ignorance of the process of joining the European Union. People's MP Suleiman Spaho throws - it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and offers money. Is that an offer for corruption? At the September meeting each of the countries of the European Union has the right to... The People's MP, the Prophet of Radeta, is saying that it doesn't make sense. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic made disinformation, presenting it as information and himself saying that he is misusing Article 225. Since I do not think that Article 225 should be misused, then I am giving brief information as to how the decision is taken to move the specific degrees... People's MP Milorad Krstin throws away, says I'm not well informed. Here, we'll figure it out now. So, at the September meeting, the two countries made objections, saying that Serbia is still under-cooperation with The Hague tribunal and that until the December meeting, the implementation of the Interim Agreement is delayed, as well as the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. It is a common procedure in the affairs of European integration. We are sure that Serbia will fulfil all its obligations in 2009, as planned, as a candidate country for membership in the European Union. The good news from the September meeting is that 25 27 countries consider Serbia a country that has done all it takes to become a member of the European Union. The word is from MP Srdjan Milivojevic, pointing out the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2812	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 103 and 104. I was just talking about the weeds, and everywhere in the world of weeds, aware that they wouldn't go above the hundred-year oaks, trying to cover those oaks in a strange way, to choke them, to choke them, but the oaks are nothing more than weeds. However, Mr Martinovic just asked why Europe and the world don't want us. Well, you know, all over the world weeds work, but only in Serbia were weeds watered. Unfortunately, in Serbia weeds were watered with blood and tears. Two gardeners, who watered those weeds with blood and tears, have not yet been arrested. When they are brought to justice, then Serbia will be a garden of flowered roses, whose every hand accepts and it will give the world its hands, which will not be dirty with innocent blood. When, Miss Jovanovic, I'm sorry, you're not in the O.R., you just mentioned that I wrote to Mr Vojislav Seselj, it's true, on behalf of the DS and in my personal name, on behalf of the Resistance, twice I wrote to the incarcerated Vojislav Seselj, because I know it's hard for him there. He's having a hard time treating prosecutors, and here his lawyers are worse than his prosecutors. I begged Vojislav Seselj to defend himself there. I wish him all the health of this world, good luck. I will never tell him what you say about Zoran Djindjic. I ask Vojislav Seselj, for his own sake, on behalf of his mother, his family, Kruševljan, on behalf of the DS MPs, to defend himself and not Serbia. Because where Seselj defended Serbia, the Serbs are gone. I want Vojislav Seselj back and through this door and into this hall, but I ask you, what if Vojislav Seselj joins Tomislav Nikolic, and he does not join you as you are. So are we going to hear about him what we're hearing about Tomislav Nikolic now? What if you stay black, cowardly, alone where you are, without Vojislav Seselj? So don't attack us, don't call Zoran Djindjic. I wish you every good, health, happiness, success in the work, but above all I wish Serbia success and happiness, and therefore I ask you to return to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2813	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2814	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I speak on the basis of Article 101, but not after this black and cowardly Srdjan Milivojevic, but after some who spoke before him. And first of all, Mrs. Comic, when you warned one of your colleagues from the SRS, I don't think he put the card on and went out to talk, so you gave a whole lecture on how an MP should behave. So I came out to remind you, and I threw it out of your bench, and we'll put a card in when we travel to Bodrum or Thessaloniki. That's how you guys did it. You go to Bodrum or Thessaloniki, and the card is in the MP's unit. That way, you remember, and you chose the governor of the National Bank, that way you passed the Labour Act, the most significant laws. So, stealing a mandate, stealing an election will, that's your manners since you've been a Democratic Party. Since 2000, you've shown worse than the way you're not actually Democrats. You remember when you kicked the entire DSS parliamentary group out of the parliamentary benches, so when the court returned them, at one point there were 310 or 315 MPs in the Assembly Hall. Everyone was getting paid and none of you were answering. Do you think this people forget so easily? Do you think we don't know what you're doing, what you're doing and how you're acting? Mr. Milivojevic, compared to his previous announcement, not to this now, and to his, I don't know, staring at the stars, celebrating Zoran Djindjic etc., I don't mind. It's your ideology, if there was any ideology. I'm not getting involved in this, but I'm distracting you that we're telling the truth. Carla del Ponte confirmed that Zoran Djindjic was, and what I'm saying is that he's the mafia prime minister, which is, I said, my court of values, so the book of Carla del Ponte says that he asked him to – take Seselj and don't bring him back to Serbia. And now you dare ask Seselj to defend himself without defending Serbia. Vojislav Seselj is there to defend Serbia, to defend SRS volunteers, to defend Serbian national interests. We do it here at the SRS in the country, he's doing it from The Hague for now, very successfully, as we do here and, rest assured, Seselj will come and be here at the head of the SRS; and now he is, but he will be in the country at the head of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2815	The word has the People's MP Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2816	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported back to the Rules of Procedure for the reason I haven't finished the topic I've come up with. I am reporting under Article 226 for the reason that you are respecting and now, you from the democratic option, that the SRS and its MPs are demagogically affecting the Serbian citizens. After all, look at yourself. You say you can't work from Serbian radicals because they're obstructing parliament. How many laws you have passed so far and how many you apply in practice, you tell the citizens of Serbia. I just started a Law on Agricultural Land that you didn't apply in the Vienna municipality, which is disastrous. The SRS voted against the law, but in principle, when the law is passed, Serbian radicals respect the law in practice. Why not apply the Law on Agricultural Land in the municipality of Vienna? Eleven thousand acres a man has been using for two years because he's courting himself with local self-government. In my previous presentation, I said the man's name was, the new owner of the PIC, who, on condition of purchase, bought the Becay Comb, to use 11,000 acres for his own benefit. Experts assessing profits in one year on those 11,000 hectares estimated that in three years, using land in state property, Mr. Nicovic would receive a PIC combination for free. It's a big deal because now he owns the Vienna Combine. I just want to remind you, the Agricultural Land Act says like this, that the budget, the money that the owner of the land bids, is directed towards the republican budget, is directed towards the province's budget and is directed towards local self-government. So, all three of your budgets by not applying the law in the municipality of Vienna, you've been sick, and the Republic's budget, and the province's budget and the local self-government budget. And that's not an accident. You made a deal in Vienna with a man who came, who had nothing to do with the Becay municipality, who did not create the value of the PIC Combines, but you settled, your majority in the local parliament is also proportional to this government that operates both in the province and in the Republic. It's no accident that you let a man who doesn't know politics with his own capital, but knows the value, make such a gesture in the Vienna municipality that he's a disaster. I call on the Ministry of Agriculture to react in the way it should react, to conduct bids in the municipality of Vienna, because there are many interested agricultural individuals missing in the municipality of Vienna, who want to progress, etc. The capital of the municipality is now in the hands of this man because he has eight councilmen in the Assembly of the Municipality, tycoonizing local government. It is a unique example in Serbia where tycoons interfere with local government, and through their committees and businesses, he formed his group of citizens for local elections and entered the local parliament, which provides him with the further exploitation of these 11,000 hectares.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2817	The question of the number of laws passed, each MP has access to the internet foreign parliament and there you have all the laws passed, so it is not a matter for the Rules of Procedure. I ask the service to direct a stenogram with the speech of Parliamentarian Dragan Zivkov to the Ministry of Agriculture and to have the answer delivered to him and to the National Assembly. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2818	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the MP has the right under Article 225 to always be informed that he could better perform his post, I would like to inform you that the discussions of the SRS MPs directly affected the Group of MPs, now counting 20 members. Now, if you don't say that he's 19 anymore, and a young colleague who said I'm a wrapped criminal, I recommend that he do the right thing as a science, not as a means for some girls to achieve their goal. So, please, if you have learned anything in these 18 years, raise the level of your parliamentary group, start talking so that people recognize that you are the real Serbian radicals, because if you continue like this, I will have to report to you every day about the change in the numerous state of the parliamentary group Forward, Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2819	National MP Natasa Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2820	Mrs. Komic, Mr. Petar Jojic, as former justice minister and criminal justice expert, one of the best members of the defence team, Dr. Vojislav Seselj, the view he suggested, since he can't speak, was taken from him, that what the previous citizen said, to whom you gave the word, was in some way a criminal act. In fact, he's digging himself up more and more. He goes out for a pay phone and admits to committing a crime, recruiting people, probably blackmailing them, because we have that kind of information. Besides, I've had enough of what happened in the town of Kragujevac. At this moment, the session of the SRS City Committee, which has begun to breathe, which has been cleansed, ends because all those who have been instructed by this refugee group for months have been excluded from the SRS, ten honorable people, those who are truly, by justice and by God's will, deserve, will be as many as seven or ten days' notice in the City Assembly. For me, the greatest pride is that a group of young people, and today on the street of Kragujevac were over 20, who were students, who were graduates, educated young people, born in the town of Kragujevac, came out with only one idea and one intention, after all the pressures and blackmail they saw in their settlements, through the phone calls they received. But they're not people who have unresolved problems and have a double life, and people who have problems with financial or other crisis, or live double lives, and then don't have to sell to anyone and submit to blackmail, like number 20 or I don't know what number, unidentified face. I know who this is and I know what I'm talking about. The easiest thing to do is manipulate the fates of people who have any problem in life and, God forbid anyone comes into such troubles, any of you, that someone who currently has any power or thinks he has the support of the president of the US, the British ambassador, is blackmailing people in that way. This happened to us with my colleague Prelic, that he realized overnight what a hoax it was. It happens with many members of the SRS, and I can even say for two people in the district, or in Shumadia, where I've been doing everything really for 17 years to raise to the highest possible level of the SRS, that they are in the right sense collateral damage. Why? It's either a single mother, or it's a jobless person. Now I don't have time, Mrs. Comic, to read you a stenogram... (President: Please state a member of the Rules of Procedure.) )......................................................................................................... to read a stenogram of a conversation of such an instructed, disfellowshipped member of the SRS from the Kingdom, with one committee member who remained a party committee member, who received direct orders from Tomislav Nikolic to recruit these people, to promise them work, this or that. These people were councilmen and they stayed because they believed that their resignations weren't valid, that it was enough to go to court and withdraw those resignations, that they would get this or that. They ran out of bread. It's just a piece of bread to someone. And we're not here because, as someone said, big salaries or travel expenses, because that doesn't make people rich. I'm 17 years poorer after politics. I've had a lot more money before this, and it wasn't my goal as some, but obviously, since things have gone deep, we're going to have to put out facts that won't be pleasant for many, and it's a good thing for some when they get home they're going to get bet on their heads.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2821	The word has a People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, so after him the right to reply is MP Petar Jojic, who was mentioned in the presentation of Natasa Jovanovic's folk letter.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2822	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm glad that Tomislav Berlusconi reads Greater Serbia and that he could read what I wrote about the crimes he committed. As far as you're concerned, Mrs. Gordana Komic, you've brought a discussion against me against the Rules of Procedure. At least in that discussion you brought forth what is true, so that man may forgive you. But you are getting into issues that you obviously don't understand or don't know, or deliberately want to deceive the citizens of Serbia. I know very well how one country becomes an EU member, it's not some big philosophy. And as for what you said, the EU SAA will not take effect until it is ratified by the last EU member state. In late April, when Bozidar Djelic, wishing the EU to blow sails to Boris Tadic before the May 11th elections, signed the SAA with the EU, on the same day, the EU Council of Ministers said that ratification of the agreement in all Member States is suspended, while the chief UN tribunal prosecutor does not give a positive report that Serbia is working sufficiently with the criminal institution. Therefore, you, Mrs Comic, together with Tomislav Berlusconi, can vote the SAA a hundred times, he will not enter into force until it has been ratified by all 27 EU member states. And because they don't want you in their society because they see what you are, that you're talking and doing one thing, that you're sick of Serbian citizens for the past eight years, there's no area of social life that's moved forward since the DOS came against the rule of 2000, this problem isn't for the citizens of Serbia, this problem is for those who promised you -- let's just take down the Free Milosevic regime in 2000, you enter the EU immediately. The story is repeated by Boris Tadic from day to day -- we're about to join the EU, here today, here tomorrow, here's the day after tomorrow, and there's none of it. Not that the SRS wants or does not want to join the EU, but the EU does not want you, and you ask yourself why.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2823	Three minutes and you haven't spoken to which member of the Rules of Procedure, as injured in the procedure, you are calling, which is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. It is my obligation under Article 225, since you have made disinformation, to provide the National Assembly with information. Both the president and the chairman of the National Assembly by the same member are obliged to inform MPs and the National Assembly of all needs for work. National MP Milorad Krstin and MP Aleksandar Martinovic are getting me out for a pay phone. This is the authority of the chairman, to provide all the necessary information, to the MPs and to the work of the National Assembly. It is forbidden to throw the Rules of Procedure out of place and is the basis for a warning to the MP who throws it out of place. Therefore, in the process of joining any EU country, following the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the Union shall adopt a provisional agreement, which shall enter into force until ratification is completed in all Member States. Twenty-five of the 27 countries believe Serbia is both ready to implement the Interim Agreement and to gain candidate status in 2009. The Netherlands is a country that believes we should prove full co-operation with The Hague tribunal. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has been misinformed as to how all the steps on the path of European integration are crossed. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the right to reply because he was mentioned in the presentation of Natasa Jovanovic's national message. Please state the basis for the replica, because only mentioning the name of the MP does not constitute a basis for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2824	Madam Chairman, I'm using law from the article. Article 207(3) I wanted, since I was appointed to present to the competent authority of this assembly a review, given that the chairwoman, as president of the National Assembly, was, by profession, a doctor, and not a lawyer, overstepped and violated the provisions and misapplyed the provisions relating to Article 106. I do not doubt her expertise, as a doctor, but I ask that the competent authority, primarily the Administrative Board, review the warnings given to me and Mr Martinovic, and Momir Markovic. Namely, Madam Chairman, in Art. In 106, level, analyze, authentically interpret the provision from 1st to 7th and when these measures are applied by the President of the Assembly. The notice is made to the MP who approached the speaker without permission of the President of the National Assembly - it was not the case; second, who spoke before he asked and received a word - there was no word about it, that is not the case; third, who, despite the warning of the president of the National Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda - I spoke in terms of the provisions of Article. In 225 and 226, because this is the general interest of our citizens, it was a question of the property of the Republic of Serbia and how the tycoons from Croatia got their property into bankruptcy. Fourthly, if you interrupt a speaker in a speech or throws away, or interferes with the speaker, or otherwise interferes with freedom of speech. Madam Chairman Comić, you are well aware of my conduct and conduct that I do not have such a custom and in particular I have not done so. Fifthly, if I present the facts and assessments relating to other people's private lives, it was not the case. The sixth, if he uses swearing and offensive expressions, was not the case. Seven, if other procedures violate the order of the sitting or act against the provisions of this Rules of Procedure - by no means. I was given my word, and I was prevented from presenting and asking for an explanation and notice on the extremely important issues of the property of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, I ask that, from the competent authority which decides on these injuries, a stenogram be read and, in that case, to determine and assess whether there was room for a reminder or word confiscation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2825	The Management Board shall decide on the warnings and statements, so that is the procedure to be followed, but what is not understood is that you have received a word and a right to a replica without the right to a proper basis. Recital of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milisav Petronijevic, followed by MP Dejan Mirovic, to say the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2826	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of Article 103(1). Rules of Procedure. At the same time, I want to give an explanation, especially to citizens of Serbia who are largely calling, asking me to come out, to determine myself about it. Then, Article 104, paragraph 1, with the aim of warning that aside from many of them who want to question the integrity and work of the Assembly, the greatest danger to this assembly is when its MPs question its integrity and dignity. I would like to announce to the public, for two days I have been patiently waiting, respecting Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, which says that the speaker can only speak about what is on the agenda. I can't get my turn for two days. The SPS-JS parliamentary group has been patiently waiting to discuss this. The response to the citizens of Serbia, who are setting up and asking to respond to this, with a comment that we have made a market out of the Assembly, a tribune to be disgusted, etc., I publicly declare that neither I nor my parliamentary group have anything to do with it. I would also like to warn the citizens of Serbia, as our people say - play for the belts too, this is no longer advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure. This is the harshest violation of the Rules of Procedure. This is an unthinking of the work of the Assembly. All the members of the Rules of Procedure who speak about an emergency session, on the agenda, on how to work, on how to maintain order at the sitting, etc. Dear colleagues, honourable Members of the people, Serbia is tired of these fights of ours, of our overlaps. He's asking us to work. When it begins to work, there is also work for the ruling majority to defend what she said in the election campaign, and for the opposition to question it. There's so much room to react and for everyone to act. This, dear gentlemen, is leading the blockades of the parliament, leading the blockades of Serbia. If the Assembly does not work as the highest legislative authority, and this is not work, then who should do so instead of the Assembly? I've given an explanation for why I'm not answering my word for two days, and I won't answer until it's on the agenda. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. () At the same time, once again, I invite everyone to turn to work in the congregation. The opposition rightly criticises and asks questions, asks for answers. Every question has a right, but when 50 times the same question is asked, it's no longer a right, it's an abuse. Once again, let us work, Serbia expects us to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2827	Four minutes. National MP Petronivic, I can only tell you that today there were over 100 sentences of damage to the Rules of Procedure and that every request for an injury, and according to the Rules of Procedure, had to be satisfied. So I can only ask you if you want to take on the injury you said and decide in the voting day? No, I don't. I thank you. Recital of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dejan Mirovic, followed by MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2828	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting from Articles 225 and 104. So I ask for information on the information we have heard about the EU, the SAA and the trade agreement. What was signed in Luxembourg on 29 April 2008, is why Gerald Knaus, director of the German NGO of the European Stability Initiative, said in connection with the signing of the SAA, it was a "glorified propaganda exercise after which things essentially remained the same". Also, I ask that the chairman protect us from the man, who apparently with the excess of false self-esteem and vanity, after meeting at the US Embassy and a statement by US Embassy spokesman Ryan Harris, threatens the MPs of the SRS here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2829	I ask the National Assembly's service to forward the stenogram issue to the European office and the European Ministry of Integration. According to my knowledge, the MP can find the entire text of the agreement, which I hope has been read and when we have adopted and ratified, on the websites and the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. To protect your people from anyone, the chairman is in charge of protecting your right to a free word, and you have it. For everything else, the other authorities and organizations in the state are in charge, and you are obliged to respect that right on a free word. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, the pronunciation of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, and by MP Nikola Savic, the pronunciation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2830	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't understand why Mrs Gordana Comic has an overwhelming desire to pardon the MPs of the SRS, and, on the other hand, I also don't understand why she...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2831	Please, people of the Parliament, do not speak lies after a pay phone. I didn't take part in any of these days. I apply the Rules of Procedure which obliges me to give an explanation every time any member of the Parliament of Parliament gives an injury to any member of the Rules of Procedure in the course of the procedure and gives information when any MP asks for any information. So, please don't make any mistakes, because in the middle of today's work day, I didn't take part in any of the cases.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2832	It is obvious that then you, Mrs Gordana Komic, really need one serious medical help. What can I do? So, tell me, what is it that I said about the SAA with the EU is not true? Is there anything that isn't true? I said the SAA would remain a dead letter in the paper until it was ratified by all 27 EU member states, who made it clear that they did not want to do so until Serge Brammertz wrote a report that Serbia has sufficiently co-operated with The Hague tribunal. This will not happen until the West makes you and the last Serb, who held a gun in his hand defending the Serbian people in the western Serbian countries...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2833	People's MP, you're making false statements again. Co-operation with The Hague tribunal is clearly defined by the list of suspects in the execution or inciting the most serious war crimes. There were 46 people on that list. In The Hague, a voluntary surrender of suspects on the run from court and justice has been 44 so far. It is 46 people who are sentenced to war crimes in front of the international UN tribunal. I ask you to refrain from bringing lies to the speaker of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2834	So in 2001, Zoran Djindjic, The Hague tribunal, the EU, etc. They said, and you deny me if I'm wrong, 'it's enough to find Slobodan Milosevic in The Hague tribunal, as allegedly the main culprit for the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia and the Hague story over Serbia will be closed'. Now in September 2008, you are almost all the leading Serbian politicians, generals, statesmen, state ministers, government presidents, some of them delivered to The Hague tribunal, some of them killed there, some killed while awaiting trial, some seriously ill, members of their families were killed, etc., and the Hague story will not be finished until today. The question of whether it will be completed when the list of 46, allegedly, has been exhausted by UN war crimes indictees sought by The Hague tribunal. These days, we can hear clearly from the EU that not even the delivery of all Hague indictees will be enough for Serbia to join the EU until Serbia has established good neighbourly relations with the false republic of Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2835	I'm asking you for the third time, please, don't make any mistakes. You have two warnings, MP, for your tenacity to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The last thing anyone who holds the presidency wants is to give notices to the MPs, but I ask you to start respecting the National Assembly, as an institution that makes us 250, and start bringing out facts. You have 45 seconds left and fill that time with true testimony.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2836	All you have to do is explain to me how you got to those 45 seconds, since you've cut my speech twice and turned off the microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2837	It's true again, I've interrupted your speech three times and measured you every time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2838	Mrs. Komic, you obviously have some serious problem, but unfortunately, I'm a lawyer, so I can't help you. So all I've said is true, and you know it's true, but you falsely deceive Serbian citizens that it is the SRS that prevents Serbia from entering the EU. You know very well who it is to prevent it. I've told you several times today, and I don't think there's any dilemma about it anymore, and I'm not going back to that question, and if something's not clear to you three times, if a man tells you anything, then there's nothing I can do about it. Since you said that the National Assembly numbers 250 MPs, I ask you, as a national MP in the Serbian Parliament, which was on the election list on 11 May, SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj, how many MPs are numbered by the SRS at the moment, and how can you explain the fact, if you say it does not count 78, that there can be a difference between the fact of the situation and what it says in the RIK report, based on which the mandates are confirmed?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2839	You have not again said a member of the Rules of Procedure to which you are calling, that the Rules of Procedure have been violated in the procedure. The question you asked is that it looks to be changing from hour to hour, how many MP groups have been reported under one name. That's the information you and I have from this room. I have no other information, except for what it is, under Article 23. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the right of MPs to form parliamentary groups. The Secretary of the National Assembly will make the final state available, for it must, to all the MPs. The People's MP Nikola Savic has the word, saying the violation of the Rules of Procedure, followed by the MP Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2840	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 225 of Position 1. I have to read this: "The People's MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary to perform the function of the Members of Parliament." Mrs. Komic, I'm going to ask you to interpret Article 225 a little more flexible. The Rules of Procedure, because it says here that the MP must be informed. This article does not say whether the information it receives must arrive via television, radio, newspapers, from people on the ground or from fellow MPs. Right here, as an MP, I will inform some of my colleagues, without being told that I am telling the truth, I will say something from your profession, Mrs. Comic. As far as I know, you're a graduate physicist. You are well aware that the largest scientific project in mankind's history is under way, it is an accelerator in the Swiss city of Lucerne, with the aim of revealing the secret creation of the world, or a big bang. Unfortunately, the project is currently being stopped because of certain problems. Why did I say this? And we in this House have these problems too, and I suggest to you, as vice-president of the Parliament from the strongest ruling party, that because of the problems that exist in this House, we suspend the work of this Parliament until we return the mandates that have been kidnapped by the SRS. When it's done, then all the secrets that existed when the new phantom party started, I call it the reverse party.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2841	National MP, your question comes down to several times the question of the procedure for ending and giving mandate to other MPs. The signator and applicant of the electoral list shall address the RIK and the Administrative Committee, with a proposal to obtain conditions for the termination of the MPs' term of office from that electoral list. The report shall be drawn up at meetings of the Administrative Committee and the RIK and the applicant of the electoral list, suggesting that the mandates be entrusted to other MPs, or candidates at that time, if the term of office of previous MPs has been suspended by law. That's what the Governing Board puts together a report and delivers to the National Assembly, and we just find out. So it's repeated multiple times. You may have been out of the O.R. or have not participated in the work of the National Assembly so far, so you have no information as to how the MPs are replaced. That's the only information I can give you on your question about what will happen to any mandates. For questions about Hadron in Cern, we can do it past the Rules of Procedure and the National Assembly. The MP says he didn't tell a lie about an accelerator in Cern. No, he's currently in stasis for refrigerating large magnets that accelerate protons. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2842	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103, paragraph 3, and in relation to Article 226. Madam Chairman, to the remarks of my fellow MP, Mr Aleksandar Martinovic, you have cited several times while he was behind the pay phone so that you do not hesitate with him, and you have persistently in the moments of his discussion on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2843	Please, don't be false. The controversy is when I leave the presidency to another, I take the word and report to the replica, or I express the breach of the Rules of Procedure. What I'm giving as information I'm bound by the same Rules of Procedure whose injuries you keep calling on. So, not one moment during today's day, it's important to me because of the stenogram, I didn't participate in the controversy with the MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2844	Madam Chairman, you're doing it now while I'm at the pay phone. You, during your speech under Article 103(3), where it says - the MP and other participants in the search are not allowed to throw, or interfere with speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech. You're doing it right now and you always do it when an SRS MP calls to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. When it comes to freedom of speech, if the MP cannot have freedom of speech in the National Assembly, who will? If the MP or citizen of Serbia has the freedom to meet secretly with US and British ambassadors, then how does the MP in the Serbian Parliament not have the right to freedom of speech? I've stated that you've done a violation of the Rules of Procedure regarding Article 103 concerning Article 225. Many times today, and yesterday from the SRS parliamentary group, we asked the National Assembly, that is, the president of the National Assembly and the chairman-in-Office - to respond to us or to provide us with the request we make from this speaker to the Minister of the Interior regarding the unprecedented events of July 29th of the current year that took place at the SRS rally, when a large number of people were beaten by the police, when such a rubber bullet (the speaker shows a rubber bullet) and a former MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and former SRS member Borislav Pelevic was hit and, unfortunately, suffered serious consequences, and he was life-threatening. We SRS deputies know that a large number of people have been injured. I will tell you that Sasa Ciric from Ražna, Stame Zlatanovic from Niška Banja, Jovica Milovanovic from Merošina, Dusan Vujasinović from Pančev and many others were hit with such rubber bullets and suffered minor or serious physical injuries. For what? In order for the interior minister to submit a report to the Serbian Parliament, where it cannot be seen, that is, there is no established responsibility nor one who has organised it, nor who has ordered it, nor who has carried out everything that happened at the SRS rally on July 29th of the current year. We in the SRS, rightly, ask of you, the president of the National Assembly or the chairman, I don't know who's behind my back at the table now...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2845	Mr. Radovanovic, you speak for three minutes and 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2846	It's okay, I'm finishing my sentence... to forward this issue to the competent state authorities and competent officials, specifically the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2847	There's a word Mr. Momir Markovic, please. It's the Rules of Procedure, isn't it?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2848	Madam Chairman, thank God you're back in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2849	Please, you are directly insulting Mrs. Komic, who is ultimately leading and chairing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2850	I said thank God you're back. Mrs. Comic has a voice flaw, she stops talking from time to time to time. None of the MPs could talk for three minutes, so she wouldn't take away his word at least three times, press that button next to it, and then she talks for at least three minutes. I am reporting under Article 226 because I want to be informed, since at one of the next sessions we will have a bill called - a bill on a anti-corruption and crime agency, of course. Does corruption and crime involve all corruption and all crimes? Do corruption and crime also involve theft? There's no major theft... Please stop throwing. First, it's very untasteful, uncultural and rude. If you have anything to say, go out for this pay phone, because other than the three words you just said, I haven't heard you since you've been in the assembly benches. Do corruption mean criminal theft and theft of the electoral will of the citizens? Because if that's the case, then let's stop right now and pass this law - to start applying the law. Under this law, these mandates that have been stolen from the SRS will then be returned. I have not seen a single list of MPs who will be called advanced Serbia, the backward Serbia, the advances, the backbones, etc. I know there is an SRS, there is a ZEZ, there are some other parliamentary lists, but there were no such lists, and in this case it would have been if it had entered parliament and become a parliamentary party, which has not yet been formed. Please inform me if it is possible for a party that does not exist to enter parliament, still virtual, or whether this law will resolve the issue of stealing parliamentary mandates, or national will?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2851	The termination of the term of office pursuant to Article 88 shall be in the following cases: by resigning, if a judicial decision has sentenced the MP to a sentence of imprisonment, unconditionally, for a period of at least six months; if the judicial decision has deprived him of his or her professional capacity; by taking over the work or functions incompatible with the function of MPs under this law; by losing citizenship, if his residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia ceases; if death of MPs occurs. So that's when the mandate ends. The term of office shall cease to be valid on the day of the appearance of any case from these points of the member I have read. The day of the end of the term of office is held by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at the first next session following the receipt of a notice on the reasons for the termination of the MPs' term. Therefore, only in these cases can the Assembly determine the termination of the term of office. He has the word Mr. Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2852	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I request an explanation from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Justice - what do the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the state of Serbia, take on the Hague tribunal's attempt to impose a defender, Vojislav Seselj? The first fact is that the prosecutor's office in The Hague is trying against the law to impose counsel Vojislav Seselj. Another fact, Vojislav Seselj announces that in that case he will strike hunger to death. That there is an objective danger from another Hague victim is also the fact that so far the UN tribunal has killed 12 Serbs directly or indirectly. I'll remind you of those victims now. The first victim was a police officer, Simo Sliding from Prijedor, who was killed while taking a bath with his son at the lake. The second victim is Dragan Gagovic from Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2853	Mr. Ambassador, you're abusers of the reason you called. He has the word Mr. Suleiman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2854	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising the violation of Rules of Procedures 225 and 226. You've been on several occasions today, and I want to address you, Madam President, and you've punished my colleague from the SRS, and since it's the first warning of 3,000 dinars, I've separated and I'll put it here if you warn me. What I have reported for is an explanation of why fellow MPs are leaving the post and all the time saying that Serbian radicals are obstructing. I want you, Madam President, to explain to me how we are obstructing this when we have the right to report to the Rules of Procedure and to present our problems. You know very well why this is happening today. We ask that the mandates of the Serbian Radical Party be returned, and this is the reason why this is done in the Serbian Parliament. Believe me, we will be resilient until the moment you give us back the mandates given to us by the citizens of Serbia. What I have to say is, I've known a citizen Nikolic for a long time, and I thought he had, when he came out, that the trinket had to...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2855	You walked away from the reason you got your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2856	Because the citizen Nikolic came out and said something about the SRS and the MPs of the SRS, as if he had moved to another... Believe me, when he went out, I thought he had a conscience that would restore his mandate to the SRS, which is normal in a man who was once a Serbian radical for a long time, and he's not anymore. The reason we know. Neither he nor those satellites that passed over to him can return for Tadic's sake, normally and for the ambassadors he goes to every day. What I have to tell you, Madam President, Madam President, is even more beautiful, she's always this elegant and younger than you look, I'm looking for Madam President... (President: It's been three minutes. ) This is very important. Here, now I've got three threatening messages if I go out and say something against Tomislav Nikolic. I ask for protection from you, as you have, as Tomislav Nikolic has. I'm not leaving here until I'm protected from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2858	Miss Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2859	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting in accordance with Article 238. A Rules of Procedure, which defines the role of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia's parliament in international institutions. Mrs. Kolundjia, you say, "How do you do it again?" I must, because I have to point by point, it is not enough for three minutes to explain what I need answers from you and Madam President, in order to prepare myself in good time and how I should prepare for what will happen next week at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, as we must take part in the debate of this resolution on the basis of the report of the Monitoring Committee on the State of our country. You see, I only tend to stick to the point of the 13th of this resolution. I am sorry, and I need it regardless, I am no longer worthy of any other member of the delegation, I am proud of what the SRS has proposed and I can participate in the work of this body to represent our unique common interests, but how, and it has always been the manner of us Serbian radicals, this is what Dr Seselj taught us when we travel abroad and whenever we talk about Serbia anywhere, to stick to what we are as a state, not to do what has become the manner of individuals, now not only from the Democratic but also from other parties, to shock our political inexperiences, etc., but to have one common position and to appear strong and determined there and to say - we have our institutions, we respect democratic rights and principles and we defend what is ours. That's right, believe me, so far it's been in all kinds of situations. There will be no doubt now, when it comes to this part concerning Kosovo and Metohija and the protection of our territorial integrity and sovereignty. At any rate, we act uniquely when we need to submit amendments and when we have this joint performance. However, Professor Micunovic did not want to participate in the discussion, he was the only member of our delegation at the January session when it was that monstrous report, or the resolution of a certain Lord Russell, but well, he probably thought and probably knew that he would soon come from the recognition of the quasiceptary state. That is his problem, however, I am now in an extremely difficult situation as a member of our delegation, Madam President. Here is item 13 that speaks of the functioning of democratic institutions, i.e. the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Point 13 says the Council of Europe, watch out for this to be voted by parliamentarians of 46 members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, regrets that Serbian democratic institutions are still not strong enough and underlines the need for their further strengthening in the fields of electoral laws, parliamentary democracy and decentralisation. Now that I know what is happening here, I am an MP, elected from the list of the Serbian Radical Party, Dr Vojislav Seselj, who has stolen 20 parliamentary mandates, to perform there and defend our democratic institution, and of course I would do anything for my country and my people and this Parliament, when all these people here and Serbian citizens are stealing parliamentary mandates in my eyes and eyes? What, to convince MPs at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe that it's okay and that we have a strong democratic institution? Unfortunately, we don't, and that's our defeat. After 18 years of renewed multilaterals in Serbia, it is a shame, we should talk here today on 26 September 2008 about the theft of the mandate from a single election list. When Bogoljub Karic stole one mandate from SRS of certain Zivadin Lekic and every day made statements, he had his own television, to continue, that there would be 2, 3, 4, 5, the then head of our parliamentary group came out for a pay phone and said it was a job for the public prosecutor, to come to the Assembly building, to see and to bring Bogoljub Karic for what he did. It's happening all over again today, and you're not saying anything. So we cannot protect Parliament and the democratic values of our society.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2860	Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2861	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Article 103(1), saying that the MP can only speak of a point on the agenda. I want to say that the MPs of the SRS have been using the Rules of Procedure for the most severe of days, calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I simply know that they know it, but I want the citizens to understand how much this is about abuse. The right of the MP to report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure and to get word before everyone else, regardless of what is on the agenda and what is being discussed, is that business opportunity which allows for the further course of the session to be stopped as a decision, which would thus be made, would not be made on the basis of the wrong procedure. The appeal to Articles 225 and 226 is an abuse of the Rules of Procedure, as these members of the Rules of Procedure are in a section called the rights and duties of Members of Parliament. He then says that the MP is obliged to participate in the work of the National Assembly, so that the MP on permanent work at the National Assembly of Serbia is obliged to attend the session when determining the quorum, as well as during the session. So 225 and 226 are part of the Corps of Rights and Obligations of Members of Parliament. Under that article, no one can get the right to report and receive a championship to address the congregation. Please stop allowing it as a practice that turns into an abuse of the whole country.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2862	Thank you. Mr. Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2863	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, as you say, for several days SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj does not allow the work of parliament and the adoption of some laws. I don't see what's against the law if one party wants to give their opinion on a report filed by the Ministry of the Interior. I don't see what the interference is that the MPs of the SRS and the MP club of SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj are looking for what was stolen from them in May's elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2864	Mr. Ambassador, let me remind you that you received your word to advertise the Rules of Procedure. It's not on the agenda, it's not the Home Office's report, it's not the problem with your mandates.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2865	I just want to explain that the SRS...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2866	Both citizens and MPs are clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2867	Excuse me, please, if you've given Mrs. Kolundjia, I think I have the right as a National MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2868	Please state which member of the Rules of Procedure you are advertising and stick to the explanation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2869	I have the right, as equals among all, to speak my mind. I said, "Employment of Rules of Procedure, Article 226." I don't insult anyone, and I don't take anything from anyone here, not time or anything. I just want to tell you that I have the right as a National MP who I have signed to step down in front of the SRS parliamentary group, Dr Vojislav Seselj, to return the blank resignation to the SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj MPs' club. You want to ban that too? You're used to taking office like that. You also took the current coalition partner when he was Ivkovic. It's your habit, it's your democracy. That's the democracy that needs to take us to the European Union now. You're gonna take us? We'll be taken by SRS-Dr. Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2870	Mr. Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2871	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 225, regarding Article 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 225, everyone knows this well, it says that the MP has the right to be informed of all the tasks relating to the performance of his parliamentary mandate. Since today, Madam Chairman, beyond all customs, all these last few years of parliamentaryism in Serbia, you have given a large number of reminders to a number of SRS MPs, I ask you, will you, in accordance with Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, punishes that are scheduled there to turn into the founding role of the newly formed Serbian retrograde party?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2872	The procedure for the reminders made by Mrs Comic has already been reported by both the public and the MPs. Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2873	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 1. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and, once and for all, hopefully, explain what members of the 225th and 226th members mean. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If a National MP, I am now talking about Article 226, he has the right to request information and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Committee, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, etc., which he needs in order to achieve the role of the MP. I can understand that it bothers you that we're reporting to that member, but you don't have a chance to stop us from doing that. All in this House were once in a position to use this article, as well as Article 225(1). Of course, we do that when we think we need to send certain messages to the citizens of Serbia first and foremost, but also when we want to draw attention to the MPs of the parliamentary majority to something they might understand, but they have to pretend not to understand. We have heard the explanation here several times today, first of all from the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs. Komic, I intervened once when she explained how mandates are assigned, how parliamentary groups are formed, etc., now I want to read you Article 92. Law on the selection of Members of Parliament. It is essentially the basis of our reporting, but we find, of course, in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a provision that allows us to do so. Article 92 says, "If, on the basis of Article 88(1) of this Law, the Member of the Council suspends the term of office before the end of the time to which he has been elected, the term of office shall be assigned to the new MP in a manner determined by this article. When the MP ceases his term before the time he was elected to, in the cases referred to in Article 1, the term of office shall belong to a political party whose election lists have been elected by an MP whose term of office has ceased and the term of office shall be assigned to the candidate on the electoral list for which the party has not received the term of office. When the MP ceases his term before the time he has been elected, in the cases referred to in Article 1, and on the election list from which he was elected, there are no candidates for which the applicant of the electoral list has not received a mandate, the term shall belong to the applicant of the electoral list which has the next largest number, and shall not be given a mandate for it, etc." Since it's been three minutes for the Rules of Procedure, I'm going to explain what I wanted to tell you next.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2874	The word is Hope Kolundji. (Hope of Kolundji, from the place: I leave the word to the Verse of Radeti. Here you go, Mrs. Verice. It is best when the largest and largest opposition parties have such co-operation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2875	The SRS parliamentary group is the largest parliamentary group in this parliament at all, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. So, here you had questions referred primarily to the President of Parliament, and you are obliged, if you cannot answer the question, to interrupt the session or without interruption of the session to consult certain bodies that could help you and to inform the MPs about what we asked you yesterday about the report of the MUP or working group, which refers to the circumstances under which he was injured, and later died the late Ranko Panic. You haven't told us a single word about it. Today, we ask you: how will article 92 be applied, in case someone from this parliamentary group who has kidnapped the mandates of the SRS remains for any reason without any of the mandates? What election list would that mandate be filled in? You know very well, Mrs. Kolundjia and all the MPs, which is the essence of this issue. I repeat, I don't know which time, we know you can't answer us, nor can the President of Parliament until Boris Tadic returns and we understand that, but we will wait for him by this pay phone until he returns and tells you what you need to do. Will he need to go with the citizen Nikolic to the American and English ambassador or will they agree on the phone, I really don't know, but I repeat, today's Politics has announced, to this day you could talk about how we Serbian radicals invented, as Vojislav Seselj of The Hague invents. So what's been published today in "Politics" and confirmed, so it's standing there, so it's become true and we're talking, it's been public now, but of course, we've always been safe, but now all Serbian citizens are sure it was before and secret. We don't care, let them talk to whoever they want, let them take orders from whoever they want, that's no longer our problem. Our problem, the SRS problem, is that we only know that the SRS parliamentary group won 78 seats in the last elections and we are entitled to 78 seats. Just because you don't like it, it's really your thing, your problem or your thing, anyway. It's been three minutes, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2876	As for the issues related to the report, in this Assembly, the Committee on Security or the possible launch of an initiative for a special session that would have that point of the agenda are the only business opportunities, there are no others. It's Mrs. Kolundji's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2877	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am reporting in accordance with Article 103(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The MP is required to speak on the agenda. The agenda point is not relations, conflicts and problems within any political party. The point of the agenda isn't whether someone who was the greatest patriot for someone now the biggest traitor, that's not what we're interested in. What we are looking for here is that you do not abuse the Rules of Procedure and that at the gravest violation of the Rules of Procedure you are actually making it impossible for this assembly to work. You obviously show that you abuse the Rules of Procedure and do not hide that you abuse the Rules of Procedure, do not hide that you are blocking the work of the Assembly. That's pretty obvious now. What you're looking for is the dowry you brought in and you want us to give it to you. We don't care about it, we don't want to get involved, we don't care about it. So if you want to solve it, you have institutions that solve it and I really don't think you have the right and we have to get in the way of what's going on right now. So if you think you have 78 mandates, prove you have them. If you think that a term of office has expired before the deadline, prove that the term of office has expired and replace the one to whom the term of office has expired on any basis. But don't get all the citizens of this country scolded because you have a problem because you don't know that someone who was something else yesterday was something else, or you're saying that this is something else. That someone should come back to tell us what we need to do, it's probably because they keep giving you orders, so you think you get orders from one office, out of one mouth. What no one can give us is a warrant to let the Rules of Procedure break, no one can give us a warrant to arbitration in the domestic affairs of the parties, and no one can give us a warrant to ask you to do something we're not in charge of.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2878	Mr Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2879	Mrs. Nado, I know that The Hague is a close institution to you, you've been ordered to drive some to The Hague, not to return from there. We trust you on your word. So, Mrs. Hope Kolundzija comes out at eight o'clock, repeats what she said this morning at 12 o'clock, at three o'clock, and now at eight o'clock for ratings and then tells us what's already known. Here, I'll deny you one clear fact. Did you cut the SRS parliamentary group's time for a debate in principle? Have you denied the SRS parliamentary group the right to committees belonging to it? Is that true or isn't it? What does that have to do with the institution for the return of office? That belonged to us so far. Generally known, in court until an old solution falls, the old solution is in effect. You have already carried out something that you plan to officially announce later, and here you accuse us of obstructing parliament. Where's the healthy logic? That's where the principles are clear. We've been looking for ours. Give us ours. We didn't ask for yours, far away whether we needed it or not. Do not worry about us whether information will arrive to us from The Hague or not, whether you respect what is the basic, principled right of democracy, that the political party, based on the number of votes it has received, is given what belongs to the republican parliament. So I'm telling you, I'm asking one question in accordance with Article 226. Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, in moral and every dilemma that Tomislav Nikolic, as chairman of the Administrative Committee, will also activate the resignations of all other SRS deputies tomorrow. Then what do we do? Then we'll have a huge number of MPs again so we don't know who they are or who they are. It is our right to seek what is ours. So I suggest you, until what is ours arrives and you officially honor Article 98, paragraph 2, which says - the president of the National Assembly can set a break in the work of the National Assembly session to carry out the necessary consultations or obtain an opinion. Watch that line - get an opinion. They are not members of 225 and 226. You're making mistakes, we can report for whatever member you want, especially the chairman. No problem, if it makes you feel any better, we'll come up with 103, 104, 105. It's not a 225th and 226th problem. There's a problem with you. Don't be so persistent, we're determined to get to the bottom of this. You make your story, we'll take ours. We're just looking for ours, and you're kidnapping someone else's.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2880	The National Assembly of Members of 23 has regulated the education of parliamentary groups, the Rules of Procedure, and says that MPs of one political party, other political organisations or groups of citizens are educated at the National Assembly no later than seven days from the day of the election of the National Assembly president, with at least five MPs. It's about the first part of your question. In the second part, the answer is related to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure, which says that the total time of debate in principle for political groups is five hours and that the time set out in Article 1 is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of those parliamentary groups. I'd like to tell you that there's really no problem, since you've realized that I have a problem understanding what you're saying. It is clear to the citizens of Serbia, the MPs and to me that you want the matter of mandates to be the only issue today and to put pressure on certain human resources, which you do not like, to resolve this parliament. We just don't have a mandate to do that, it's business impossible. Mrs. Kolundzhija explained it in detail on several occasions, she quoted herself, and mostly SRS MPs to each other, so that these contents are repeated frequently. Please, Mr. Alexander Martinovic, he has a word now.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2881	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, while you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, were absent, Mrs. Gordana Comic, has done a number of injuries to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, among other things, which she is doing and is now throwing behind her back. First of all, she hurt Article 96. The rules of procedure, which the next president of the National Assembly, or chair, when chaired by the National Assembly, if he wants to participate in the search, leaves the presidency to one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly. Mrs Gordana Comic tried here to deny what I said about Serbia's entry into the EU. It is not disputed that she has presented a series of misinformation on the matter, probably the woman is not sufficiently addressed to the issue. The problem was that she was taking the information out of the presidency, so I draw your attention, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, to draw attention to Mrs Gordani Comic, if she wants to say something that is of interest to all the MPs, and not to the Rules of Procedure, to say this about this speaker, rather than abuse the function of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's clear to me that you, and Mrs. Nadia Kolundji, too, have had an unpleasant task. Boris Tadic and Tomislav Berlusconi ate sour grapes, and now your teeth are rotting. But no one forced you to join them in the coalition. I find it really interesting to have Mrs. Hope Kolundji's observations about what they really mean. 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure and how they should be interpreted. It doesn't matter if I accept these observations or not. I just don't know if it's an interpretation. In 225 and 226, she learned from Neboja Covic or Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2882	Mr. MP, Mrs. Comic, in office of the chairman, was obliged to answer questions to the MPs, including you, and she did not participate in the debate, and she gave that explanation from place, as I do. Regarding your findings regarding Mr. Tadic's relationship with Mr. Nikolic and the repercusion that concerns me personally, I would like to tell you that you are to me exactly what Tomislav Nikolic is to me, and that Mr. Tadic is the President of the Republic and that this is a function that I respect as a function. Mr. Dragan Stevanović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2883	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of a member of the Rules of Procedure to whom Mrs Nada Kolundzhi was invited earlier, Article 104, Article 2, which says we should address each other with respect. Mrs. Kolundjia, you're from this pay phone in one of your tirads... (President: I would like to ask you to allow us to hear Mr. MPs. I'm sorry, haven't heard what member of the Rules of Procedure? I'll give you your time, please. I wanted to advertise Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I was inspired by Mrs. Nada Kolundji's tiara about the alleged regrets of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, how we harass them, how we abuse them and waste their time, but since I've received some suggestions, I'll finish my story. I don't think this story is over today, you owe us something, answers to parliamentary mandates that have been taken away by citizens of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-26-0.u2884	Thank you. Since no word has been reported on the list of parliamentary groups, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93, want to speak. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a single search on the motions for decisions, does the representative of Proposer Branko Ljiljak, deputy chairman of the Finance Committee, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude a unique search on the proposals for decisions. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motions for decisions. The paper continues on the 2nd item of the agenda on Monday at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 150 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the session was prevented from being attended by MP Zlata Djeric. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the session to be attended by Mr Sasa Jankovic, a civil protectionist. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a decision on the election of the Deputy Protector of the City Mr Krasic has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
